Chairmans Statement In my first year as Chairman of DIGIT, it gives me pleasure competitive by industry standards, in particular the to be able to report to you on a good year for your marginal fee of 0.25% per annum paid on assets over 425 Company, with solid results set against a backdrop of rising million.
Following the changes reported on in the year to January 2006, this year has proved to be Investment Management altogether quieter, with the benefits of some of these My predecessor made reference to changes in investment changes coming through in terms of performance.
DIGITs strategy undertaken in the previous year to move the Net Asset Value NAV total return for the year, with portfolio away from the shackles of the benchmark Index.
debt valued at market, was 21.8%, which was comfortably The Manager has substantially completed this process, ahead of the total return of 13.1% attributable to the FTSE with a significant reduction in capital tied up in some of All-Share Index for the period.
The principal reasons for this the larger constituents of the Index, resulting in a better outperformance are covered in the Managers Review, but spread of investments across sectors.
Although DIGITs it was gratifying to see the majority of outperformance principal mandate is to invest in companies whose primary coming from stock selection and sector allocation.
At the listing is in London, as reported in detail in DIGITs last same time, I am pleased to report that the Manager has interim statement, the portfolio now includes a small once again succeeded in growing the income available to exposure to oil companies listed in Continental Europe.
Shareholders at a rate which comfortably exceeds current inflation.
Gearing The benefit of replacing the 11% fixed rate Debenture Dividend Stock in 2005 and substituting a variable rate loan facility The period under review has continued to witness robust allowed us to respond to higher equity markets by dividend growth across the market, as company balance reducing the absolute level of gearing within the portfolio.
sheets are generally in good shape and corporate In consequence, we have now cancelled without penalty profitability is still healthy.
DIGITs portfolio benefited from 5 million of the original 40 million variable facility.
this and, as a result, our revenue return per share rose from Since we believe that returns can be enhanced through the 9.20p to 10.04p.
This has allowed us to achieve another judicious use of gearing within the portfolio, the Board year of real dividend increases, an important objective for continues to review this on an active and regular basis.
us and this has been accompanied by a proposed further strengthening of our revenue reserve, in order to provide Discount and Buybacks comfort when times are not as positive.
The Ordinary share price rose by 21.8% to 267.25p, reflecting a narrowing in the discount to NAV at which the The Board is delighted to recommend a final dividend of shares trade, from 9.1% at the end of the previous year, to 5.9p per share, to give a total dividend for the year of 9.0p, 6.3% at the end of January 2007.
During the year, we a rise of 9.8% on last years 8.2p.
For comparison, the rise bought back 3.23 million shares, which have been kept in in the Retail Price Index was 4.2% over the same period.
The Company has the option of re-issuing these Subject to Shareholders approval, the final dividend will be shares at a later date, although it must be stressed that we paid on 8 May 2007 to Shareholders on the register at 10 undertake not to re-issue treasury shares at a discount to April 2007.
NAV calculated by deducting the Debenture at market value.
Management Fee I am pleased to report that we have recently negotiated a We are firmly of the view that, as well as providing a new scale for the annual management fee paid by your degree of stability to the discount, share buybacks can Company to Aberdeen Asset Managers so that, henceforth, enhance value to continuing Shareholders through fees are earned on net assets under management, as increasing the NAV of the Company, and we will continue distinct from gross assets hitherto.
This change, which we to engage in buybacks on terms which will be believe reflects best industry practice, is intended to be advantageous to Shareholders.
As part of prudent broadly neutral as to the quantum of the fee paid to the housekeeping, treasury shares will be subject to review Manager, which your Board continues to regard as being ahead of the Annual General Meeting.
8 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Marketing Outlook We continue to attach great importance to the marketing The pendulum has swung within the equity market from of the fund, and we believe that effective discount concerns on deflation to a preoccupation with inflation.
management is best achieved through consistent The impact of this transition was felt in May June 2006, investment performance and effective marketing.
While when the UK equity market posted close to a 10% the Manager strives to achieve the former, it is perhaps correction.
The market moved on from this, reaching easier to control the latter, and the bulk of the marketing levels not seen since 2000, but the damaging impact of effort is targeted at attracting new Shareholders: your untamed inflation should not be dismissed.
This is Board has recently agreed to increase its expenditure on particularly relevant given the background in recent years marketing in order to assist the Manager in its efforts to of a plentiful supply of cheap debt, which has helped promote what we see as an attractive investment product support the level of corporate activity.
Real interest rates for those seeking an income bias.
To this effect, the are, however, still low by historical standards and, with UK Manager regularly meets with financial intermediaries, companies remaining in sound financial health, valuations investors, and potential investors to ensure the market are not stretched.
Your Manager can still find opportunities place understands and is aware of the attractions of the within the market, at valuations it considers to be Company.
Shareholders will be pleased to know that, in recognition of The Companys Annual General Meeting takes place in outstanding performance in 2006, DIGIT has won the Edinburgh, on 3 May 2007, and I look forward to seeing as award from Investment Trusts Magazine for Best Growth many of you there as possible.
and Income Trust, a sector with some 31 others in contention.
co. uk gives a great deal of information about DIGIT.
It also gives details on how to invest in the shares of DIGIT in a low cost manner, either through regular savings, or a lump sum.
Details of these products can also be found on page John Scott 46.
20 March 2007 Chairman Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 9
