Chairmans Statement THE UK EQUITY MARKET which I referred in my Statement last year.
In the current I reported at the interim stage that the UK equity year, the UK corporate sector has continued to perform market had made little progress in the period April to well and, again, increased significantly dividend payments.
Forward momentum was regained The Companys receipts have benefited additionally from shortly thereafter and, despite two setbacks from both a full year of the 2005 6 policy change, and accordingly of which recovery was rapid, the FTSE All-Share Index its own total dividend income has again increased the Index rose by 7.7% over the full twelve-month substantially.
Reflecting its view of the adequacy of period ending 31 March 2007. reserves the Board has adopted a policy of full distribution, and it now recommends a final dividend CAPITAL PERFORMANCE payment of 5.65p, which together with the three The Accounts show Net Asset Value NAV to have quarterly payments of 4.4p already made, gives a total increased over the period by 9.2% debt marked to for the year of 18.85p 23.6% higher than in 2005 6. market and 7.7% debt at par.
As the footnotes to the Over the last two years, dividends will have increased Highlights page 2 and detail in note 15 to the Accounts by 43.3% - clearly achieving the Companys income page 39 demonstrate, the underlying growth in capital objective of giving growth above the rate, 7.3%, of UK value has, due to the combination of changes in the inflation RPI in that period.
Looking to the future, the timing of dividend payments and accounting standards, rate of growth in dividend payments by UK corporates been under-represented by 0.4 percentage points.
Hence, generally is slowing, and the Companys one-off benefit the Board believes that a truer measure of NAV growth from its policy change will not be repeated.
Accordingly, for the year is 9.6%, debt at market and 8.1% debt at shareholders should expect future dividend growth to par and that, against the background of a 7.7% increase be of a much lower order than that seen in the past in the benchmark Index, the Companys overall capital two years.
SHARE PRICE On a total return basis, which incorporates both capital The Companys share price increased by 12% in the and income, growth in NAV was greater than the relevant year under review well ahead of the 7.7% increase in benchmark return.
the benchmark Index and reflecting a significant reduction from 11.7% to 9.4% debt marked to market The attribution analysis shown in the Managers Business in the discount to NAV.
Over three years, the share price Review demonstrates that on a total return basis whilst has increased by 60% - again, substantially more than the underlying investment portfolio underperformed the the 49% Index growth.
The Board believes that it is Index by 0.9%, both gearing net contribution 0.8% and important to have the power to buy back shares in share buy-backs 1.4% contributed positively to returns.
appropriate circumstances, with the prime objective of increasing NAV per share for remaining shareholders On a three year perspective, the Index capital only and will seek powers to continue this programme at the has increased by 49.4%.
NAV on a consistent basis has Annual General Meeting.
During the year, the Company grown in the same period by 55% and 51%, with debt bought back 18.4 million shares, enhancing NAV by 1.4%.
marked respectively to market and at par.
PORTFOLIO STRUCTURE These results demonstrate that the Company has, The structure of your Companys portfolio continues to on both a one and three year basis, met its capital evolve, and is now allocated to two portfolio managers, performance objective - the achievement of capital one with an income orientation, and the other biased to growth at a higher rate than the Index.
A detailed holdings expected to increase dividends by more than account of the management of the portfolio is the market average rate.
This combination is seen by provided by the Business Review, which follows.
the Board and Manager as currently the one most appropriate to meet the Companys twin objectives of INCOME PERFORMANCE providing balanced growth in both income and capital.
DIVIDENDS Shareholders will recall that the Board was able last Shareholders know from previous statements that the year to recommend a substantial 16% increase in Board monitors carefully the position of the Companys dividend in respect of the twelve months to March two debenture stocks total par value 200 million.
This was due both to increasing payouts by The weakness in the debt market continues to justify the underlying investments and to the change in portfolio decision to retain these securities to invest, as appropriate, emphasis which had occurred during the year and to in the equity market.
During the current year, initially Page 4 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Chairmans Statement about 70% of these debentures were invested in this way, and utilisation was increased to over 90% in the second six month period.
This use of gearing contributed positively to returns.
Following the end of the financial year, reflecting principally an expectation of a slower rate of growth of profits and dividends from UK equities, it was decided to reduce the Companys gearing: in late May about 60% of the 200 million debentures was invested in the equity market.
PROSPECTS The UK equity market continues to perform well, and the Index recorded another five year high after the end of the year under review.
Some commentators are now expressing concern about the possibility of a short-term correction after the long period of positive returns.
The Board does not discount such a possibility, but believes that although growth is likely to be at a slower rate than in the last two or three years, your Company continues to be a good vehicle for long-term investment in the UK equity market.
Scott Dobbie Chairman 25 May 2007 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2007 Page 5
