Chairmans Statement The Company continues to meet the objective of tracking The Company bought back 9,152,922 of its own shares the performance of the S&P 500 Composite Index.
In the 12 for cancellation during the year to 31 January 2007 months to 31 January 2007, the net asset value per share enhancing the NAV for continuing shareholders by 2.13p.
NAV rose by 2.5% to 615.34p, compared to an increase of The Board believes that this discount management policy 2.0% in the Index in sterling terms.
should provide both existing shareholders, and potential new investors, with greater confidence that there will, in Since the investment objective of the Company was revised future, be less variation in movement between the in June 1997, the capital performance has matched that of Companys share price and its benchmark Index.
the Index to within 0.4% per annum.
The annualised returns for the Companys net asset values per share for the period Marketing 31 July 1997 to 31 January 2007 were 2.82% per annum Your Board continues to promote the Company through compared to an annualised return of 2.47% per annum for the Managers marketing initiative which provides a the Index.
series of savings schemes through which savers can invest in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust in a low cost and US equity markets struggled to make progress in the first convenient manner.
The Company contributed 100,000 half of the year.
Corporate profits were ahead of to this initiative during the past year.
Up to date expectations but investors remained cautious about the information about the Company is available on the impact of higher oil prices on economic activity and the Companys website on www.
continuing rise in US interest rates.
By June, the Federal Reserve had increased short term interest rates to 5.25%.
Corporate Governance From that point however investors began to anticipate that The Board reviews annually the performance of the the risks to growth and inflation were over-stated and US Manager, the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
The equity markets rose strongly in the second half of the year.
Board has assessed the performance of the Manager, the There have no been further increases to US interest rates investment process and risk controls.
The portfolio has since June 2006. tracked closely the performance of the Index and the discount at which the Companys shares trade relative to Over the financial year, the US dollar sterling exchange rate the net asset value has reduced over the past year.
The fell from $1.78 to $1.96 which translated the rise of 12.4% Board has reviewed the terms of the management in the S&P 500 Composite Index in US currency to 2.0% in agreement during the year and believes that the sterling terms.
continuing appointment of the Manager, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders.
The revenue return per share over the year rose by 10.5% to 6.92p, benefiting from dividend increases from underlying Annual General Meeting investments which more than offset adverse movements in The Companys Articles of Association require the US dollar sterling exchange rate.
Your Board is shareholders to vote on the continuation of the Company recommending a final dividend of 4.45p which will take total at every Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, a dividends for the year to 6.90p, an increase of 15.0% from resolution to this effect will be proposed as Special last year.
Business at the Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday 23 May 2007.
If this resolution is not passed, The discount at which the Companys shares trade has been a resolution to liquidate the Company will be proposed volatile in recent years and, in May 2006, the Board later this year.
Liquidation would result in a disposal of announced that, in order to contain this volatility, it the Companys shares for taxation purposes and intended to continue to buy-back the Companys shares therefore shareholders should consider carefully whether with the aim of establishing a long term level of the discount they wish the Company to be wound up.
There will be to the NAV of no greater than 3%.
The effect of this another opportunity to consider the future of the commitment was reflected in the Companys share price Company at the same time next year.
I believe that our which rose by 2.9% over the 12 months to 31 January 2007 investment performance, aided by low management and to 586.5p, compared to an increase in the Index of 2.0%.
administration costs, as evidenced by the total expense Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 7 Chairmans Statement continued ratio of 0.29%, underlines the attractions of the Index to remove the age 70 limit to Directors which is tracking approach to investors.
Your Board therefore consistent with provisions under the Companies Act strongly recommends all shareholders to vote in favour of 2006.
In the event that this change is approved, I the resolution.
will not be required to vacate the office of Chairman at the conclusion of the 2007 Annual General The Directors are also seeking shareholder approval to renew Meeting by virtue of my attaining the age of 70 the authority to issue new shares for cash, to meet investor years by that time.
demand provided the subscription price is not below the net asset value per share.
Your Board also has the authority to An explanation of the proposed changes to the Articles is purchase the Companys shares for cancellation were the set out in the circular accompanying the Companys shares to trade persistently at a level in excess of the report and accounts.
Resolutions proposing an extension of these facilities will be put to shareholders at the Outlook Annual General Meeting.
The size of the economy and stock market, the mobility of the nations labour force and the countrys Following a review of the Companys Articles of Association, entrepreneurial culture have enabled a large number of the Board is proposing the following amendments to the US companies to emerge as world leaders in many Companys Articles: industries.
Edinburgh US Tracker Trust provides shareholders with a broadly diversified portfolio which to take advantage of enhanced procedures for the use covers the top 500 listed companies in the United States.
of electronic communications introduced by the Companies Act 2006 to bring up to date the provisions in the Articles dealing Sir Angus Grossart with the rights of the Directors to indemnification 14 March 2007 Chairman 8 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc
