Chairmans Statement Results Dividend and Dividend Policy For the year 2007, the Company recorded a profit after tax of The Board are recommending a final dividend of 4.0 pence, 18.7 million.
This compares to a reported loss in 2006 of payable on 16 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at 22.5 million.
Underlying earnings per share were 10.4 pence 11 April 2008. versus the 12.8 pence reported in 2006.
The swing to reported Our policy is to pursue progressive dividend growth from the profit reflects the absence of prior year distortions such as rebased dividend for 2007 and to achieve at least 1.5 times impairment charges.
The reduction in underlying earnings reflects earnings cover.
early stage investment in accordance with our three-year plan.
Board Developments Strategy and Outlook There were a number of Board changes since my last statement.
Last year we announced a three-year plan designed to better These have of course been announced but are summarised position your Company for growth.
The strategy required an below.
Biographical details are given on pages 24 and 25. upfront increase in investment spending.
We said that we would spend more in the short term to make more in the long term.
Philip Moore, Chief Executive of Friends Provident stepped down 2007 was year one of the three year plan.
The resultant from the Board of F&C in November 2007 upon leaving the Board underlying earnings are consistent with the indication given at the of Friends Provident.
We thank Philip for his contribution during time.
Non-earnings-related targets were also established for his tenure and wish him well.
which Key Performance Indicators were agreed and tracked.
The Sir Adrian Montague, Executive Chairman of Friends Provident accompanying CEO Report and Business Review give details on replaced Philip Moore on the Board of F&C.
He joins as a progress made to date.
During the year, the Board revisited and reaffirmed its Nicholas MacAndrew joined the Board last May as an commitment to the plan and to the strategy it represents.
He is a chartered accountant continue to believe that the realisation of the plan is the best with experience in both finance and asset management.
Nick is a strategy by which to maximise shareholder value.
Meanwhile, member of the Audit & Compliance Committee.
Friends Provident, our 52% shareholder has undertaken its own strategic review.
Among the conclusions announced by the Board Gerhard Roggemann joined the Board in July as an Independent of FP was that wealth management would no longer be core to non-Executive Director.
Gerhards long career in finance includes their strategy.
We are therefore working with Friends Provident to experience in the asset management, banking and corporate seek a solution which will work to the benefit of all parties and finance sectors.
He brings a particular knowledge of the German shareholders.
Needless to say, this development offers both marketplace.
John Heywood reached the normal retirement age of 70 in 2007 and intends to retire from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in May.
During his years on the Board, John could always be counted on to ask the challenging question in a manner both incisive and polite.
John chaired the Companys Remuneration Committee.
To ensure a smooth transition ahead of his retirement and in advance of the most recent bonus round, the Chair was assumed during the 3rd quarter by Brian Larcombe.
Brian is a long standing member of the Remuneration Committee.
4 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Summary We remain committed to the objectives of the three-year plan.
2007 was the first year of this effort and overall progress is encouraging.
As set out further in the Chief Executives Report, the market and corporate situation creates uncertainty over the timetable for delivery but not to our commitment to the strategic direction.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our employees for their tremendous efforts and impressive achievements.
