4 Chairmans letter While we do now have a strong list of projects coming onstream, the challenge is to ensure that this progress is maintained and strengthened.
In doing so, we will continue to work closely with governments and national oil companies to our mutual benefit.
The new delineation of the business of the group between upstream, downstream and alternative energy brings a welcome emphasis on the key drivers of the business.
I believe, too, that our alternative energy business will provide the focus that we need to have on technology, both for our existing business and for the supply of low-carbon energy in the future.
Whatever the importance of short-term challenges, the rise in the oil price and trends in the world economy require the group to make big strategic choices for the medium and Dear Shareholder 2007 was a year of change for BP, as long term.
This involves identifying the right opportunities the group responded to the powerful global forces shaping in a challenging marketplace for the group to grow in both the world economy and took decisive action to rebuild the upstream and downstream.
I regard this as a key part of groups reputation.
For many years, we were recognized as a leader in our We are maintaining our policy of returning cash to industry.
The tragic events of Texas City, the incidents in shareholders through dividends and buybacks although we Alaska and the conduct of a small number of our traders are changing the relative proportion of each.
Your board has showed that we have failed in recent years to live up to confidence in greater cash flows from our strong asset base, our own high standards and comply with the law.
We have which has allowed the company to increase both investment acknowledged this in the settlements we have reached in its future growth and the dividend component of our with the US Department of Justice on these issues.
determined that we will recover our leadership position.
I am therefore pleased to confirm that we have increased John Browne stood down as group chief executive and the quarterly dividend, to be paid in March, to 13.525 cents as a director on 1 May 2007.
The circumstances of Johns per share, compared with 10.325 cents per share last year.
resignation do not reflect the huge contribution he made For the year, the dividend showed an increase of 16%.
to the group during his 41-year career at BP.
His vision helped In sterling terms, the quarterly dividend is 6.813 pence per to transform BP and give it the scope and scale it has share, compared with 5.258 pence per share a year ago: for today.
We are indebted to him and I again wish to thank the year, the increase was 7%.
During the year, $7.5 billion John on behalf of the board for his great achievements of shares were repurchased for cancellation.
I am grateful to and wish to thank the executive team, the I am very pleased to welcome Tony Hayward as group board and indeed all our employees for everything they have chief executive.
Tony was chosen unanimously by the board done during an eventful year.
On behalf of the board, I would after a thorough internal and external search.
He has already also like to thank our shareholders for their support.
We have set about making his own mark on the group through his all learned some tough lessons in recent years and I am dynamic leadership and his desire to reduce complexity.
His confident that investors long-term faith in the company clear focus has been on safety, people and performance.
The significant contribution to the group of other executive and non-executive directors is described on page 59 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
We have also reviewed in depth the way we, as a board, work and this is described here on pages 74-80.
While change was a feature of 2007, there is evidently Peter Sutherland work still to do.
In particular, during much of the year our Chairman operational and financial performance has been below 22 February 2008 par, as a direct result of a number of our key assets both upstream and downstream not being available when they were needed and when they could have made a significant financial contribution.
I am glad to say that our upstream projects are now coming onstream and our downstream assets are returning to service.
