Chairmans Statement I have pleasure in presenting the annual report of Fidelity Performance over one year, five years and since launch European Values PLC for the year ended 31 December to 31 December 2007 on a total return basis 2007.
NAV Share price FTSE World Europe PERFORMANCE ex UK Index Continental European equities delivered another year One year 13.4% 12.0% 15.1% of strong returns during 2007, as takeover activity and generally strong corporate results pushed markets Five years 213.1% 232.1% 147.8% higher.
Positive economic indicators, including strong Since launch 1991 1,473.2% 1,357.3% 508.5% domestic demand and falling unemployment, continued to support the markets despite prevailing inflationary Source: Fidelity, Datastream and Morningstar as at 31 December 2007 Basis: bid-bid with net income reinvested pressures.
However, the period will doubtless be Past performance is not a guide to future returns remembered for the credit crunch, the result of high default rates in the risky US sub-prime mortgage market.
Towards the end of the year, there was evidence of a downturn in housing markets in various European share price volatility and results in an enhancement to economies, while oil prices picked up and consumer the NAV.
Over the last six months share buybacks have expenditure waned.
Over the review period, the net been made, further details of which may be found in asset value NAV per share of the Company returned the Directors Report.
13.4%, underperforming the benchmark FTSE World Europe ex UK Index, which returned 15.1%.
Although DIVIDEND the absolute return was strong, performance was slightly The Board believes very strongly in increasing total disappointing relative to the Index.
This was partly due return income and capital on investment for to a lack of exposure to the consumer goods, shareholders.
It is the Boards policy to pay out earnings telecommunications and technology sectors, while the in full, however I wish to reiterate that the Board will not zero weighting in Nokia also affected returns.
Overall, influence the Manager in any way to determine the level the portfolios gearing had a positive impact on returns.
The Board has decided to recommend a final However, during November the Board decided to dividend of 13.75 pence per share for the year ended 31 reduce the net gearing from over 10% to zero, as a result December 2007 2006: 5.25 pence.
This dividend will be of concerns about the investment outlook.
The shares payable on 27 May 2008 to shareholders on the register ended the year trading at a discount of 6.9% to their at close of business on 7 March 2008 ex-dividend date underlying asset value.
All figures are in sterling and 5 March 2008. are on a total return basis.
A detailed review of the performance of the portfolio is provided in the PORTFOLIO MANAGER Managers Review.
We have been extremely fortunate over the years to have had outstanding Portfolio Managers, namely GEARING Tim McCarron and, prior to him, Anthony Bolton.
The Company has fixed term loans of 140m in Mr McCarron has managed the portfolio for some aggregate with a further 25m available by way of six years and it is believed that a change at this time a revolving credit facility.
During the year ended 31 for the Company is appropriate.
The Board has been December 2007 15m of the revolving credit facility working closely with Fidelity and we wish to welcome was drawn down and rolled over periodically until it was Sudipto Banerji, who will succeed Tim McCarron as repaid on 28 December 2007, the facility being retained.
Mr Banerji will become The Board is responsible for the level of gearing in the co-Portfolio Manager in April, working alongside Company and continues to review it on a regular basis.
Tim McCarron to ensure a smooth transition of the At the year end the level of net gearing was -1.0% and portfolio.
From the end of June, Mr Banerji will have full as at the date of this Statement, the Companys level of responsibility for the Companys portfolio management.
The Board will ensure that in normal circumstances net gearing is below 20%.
It is Mr Banerji qualified as an accountant with Ernst & Young estimated that, excluding the impact of cash, gearing following a degree from the University of Delhi.
He then enhanced the NAV by 0.22p per share over the year worked for Perpetual and joined Fidelity in 2000.
He and the Board believes that gearing will continue to worked as the European retail analyst for two years and benefit shareholders in the long term.
then became a continental European Financial analyst.
For the past three years he has been a member of the DISCOUNT MANAGEMENT Fidelity Global team, managing Fidelitys Industrials The Board will be active in issuing shares at a premium Fund.
The Board has every confidence that Mr Banerji and buying back shares at a discount: a continuation of will continue to produce the level of performance that practice since launch.
The purpose of this is to reduce shareholders expect.
Mr Banerjis investment style is a Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Page 3 Chairmans Statement bottom up stock picking approach.
This approach is very that they wish me to continue as Chairman.
In particular similar to Mr McCarrons and we look forward to working the Board believes that my input into discussions on the with him.
We would like to thank Mr McCarron for his introduction of the performance element to the huge contribution to the performance of the Company management fee, VAT issues and the proposed change over the past six years.
in Portfolio Manager illustrated my independence well.
In Mr Simpsons case his investment experience, DIRECTORATE appointment as Senior Independent Director and Following the unexpected death of Mr Bjrkman, Chairmanship of the Companys Audit Committee have a further two new Directors were appointed to the remained extremely valuable.
The Board is Board with effect from 1 June 2007.
Please join me in recommending that Mr Simpson and I be re-elected as welcoming Mr James Robinson and Mr Humphrey van Directors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
der Klugt as Directors to the Board.
They have made significant contributions to the running of the Company The Board has given some thought to succession during their short tenure due to their experience of the planning: it had been our intention that David Simpson industry and their financial experience as chartered should retire at this years AGM and that I should retire accountants.
In view of the change in Portfolio Manager, we feel that continuity is particularly important All of the Companys Directors will retire and, being at this time and have therefore agreed that both these eligible, offer themselves for election or re-election.
As detailed in the biographies on pages 14 and 15 the Directors have a wide range of appropriate skills MANAGEMENT FEES and experience to make up a balanced Board for your With effect from 1 January 2007 the Board entered Company.
into a newly negotiated fee with the Manager including a performance fee element.
Further details of this are Messrs Robinson and van der Klugt are subject to included in the Directors' Report.
election and Mr Simpson and I are subject to annual reelection due to our tenure on the Board exceeding nine CONTINUATION VOTE years.
Mr Fraser is subject to annual re-election under In accordance with the Articles of Association of the the Listing Rules due to his employment relationship with Company, an ordinary resolution that the Company the Manager.
This relationship with a senior member of continue as an investment trust for a further two years the Companys Manager who assumes the responsibility was passed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
of being a Director of the Company is considered A further continuation vote will take place at the important.
All Directors with the exception of Mr Fraser Annual General Meeting in 2009. are totally independent and this provides an appropriate balance.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of AUDITORS Association, if there are fewer than three Directors During the year a merger took place between RSM eligible to retire by rotation, then all shall retire and Robson Rhodes LLP and Grant Thornton, resulting in the therefore Mr Duckworth is subject to re-election again new firm Grant Thornton UK LLP.
As a matter of process, this year.
Mr Duckworth brings experience from his RSM Robson Rhodes LLP resigned as Auditors of the service on the City of London Corporations Finance and Company and the Board appointed Grant Thornton UK Investment Committees as well as his other public and LLP to fill the casual vacancy arising.
The Board is happy charitable appointments.
The Board recognises the to report that the audit partner and manager remain the importance of continuity on the Board as well as the same and the Board is recommending to shareholders need for refreshment from time to time.
The Board has that they vote in favour of the re-appointment of Grant considered the proposal for the election and re-election Thornton UK LLP.
of the Directors and recommends to shareholders that they vote in favour of the proposals.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Each year the Board reviews Directors fees in the light Due to Mr Simpsons and my tenure on the Board of increases in workload and the responsibilities of being exceeding nine years our fellow Directors have met in a non-executive director.
Fees paid by companies in its our absence and considered our eligibility for re-election.
peer group and elsewhere in the industry are considered.
In my case, they considered that my experience, my With effect from 1 January 2008 my fees were increased independence of mind and the manner in which I have to 27,500 pa from 25,000, the Chairman of the Audit filled the role of Chairman over the last six years have Committees fees to 21,000 pa from 20,000 and that been beneficial to the Company and they confirmed of the other Directors to 19,000 pa from 18,000.
The Page 4 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Chairmans Statement total payable is within the 150,000 maximum aggregate OUTLOOK laid down in the Companys Articles of Association.
As you will see in the Managers Review, our Manager believes that markets continue to present some good ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING value opportunities, despite the prevailing headwinds The Annual General Meeting of the Company is due of a more challenging economic backdrop.
to take place on 16 May 2008 at midday at Fidelitys offices at 25 Cannon Street.
Full details of the meeting For our part, we believe that good stock selection based are given on pages 54 to 56 and I look forward to on in-depth company analysis should continue to be the meeting you then.
key to outperforming the Index over the coming years.
INVESTMENT POLICY Shareholders will note a further restructuring and expansion of the contents of this years annual report due to changes in regulatory requirements.
The main change this year is the addition of the full text of the Company's Investment Policy forming part of the Directors' Report.
As I wrote last year, my view is that the annual report is Robert Walther now too lengthy and most of the detail of the Business Chairman Review is not of interest or use to the majority of 27 February 2008 shareholders.
Therefore an attempt has been made to pull together the key issues and any contentious matters in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review so that only the most assiduous of shareholders need read the extra detail.
I would like shareholders to convey their thoughts on this approach to me to see if it is favoured or whether a different approach would be preferred.
VAT ON MANAGEMENT FEES Following the decision of the European Court of Justice in the JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust AIC case C-363 05 which confirmed that the VAT exemption applicable to the management of special investment funds should also extend to investment trust companies, investment trust companies are entitled to recover VAT previously charged on such management fees and HM Revenue and Customs has withdrawn its appeal to the VAT tribunal.
There are uncertainties surrounding the recovery process and therefore no payment has been anticipated in the Companys NAV.
The Company expects to receive a certain amount of VAT paid over past years which is estimated to be in the order of magnitude of around 5 million.
However it is not certain to what extent the full recovery of VAT beyond this amount will be possible.
Discussions are on-going with Fidelity with regard to further recovery and the Company has not sought to estimate or disclose this.
The Company is no longer paying VAT on its management fees.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Page 5
