Chairmans Statement result that the Companys share price is currently standing at 280.25 pence.
Performance We expected 2007 to be a volatile year, but the problems in the US sub-prime mortgage market and the resulting credit crunch were worse than we had anticipated.
After a strong performance from most markets in the first half of the year, conditions were far more difficult from July onwards.
We outperformed our benchmark in both halves of the year and all aspects of management contributed to our returns.
We had more of our assets invested in strong markets, principally in Asia and Emerging Markets, and less in North America and Japan which were poor performers.
We also had a very good year in private equity.
Our borrowings were again helpful in rising markets, especially as all our short-term Mark Loveday Chairman borrowings were in Yen when it was a particularly weak currency.
Stock selection across the portfolio showed the sharpest improvement in its contribution to our results, most notably in North America.
Over the year we reduced our holdings in the UK, Europe and Emerging Markets, primarily to fund private Your company has had an excellent year, achieving equity investments which now account for 7.4% of our four key objectives for 2007. the portfolio, significantly closer to our 10% target.
We believe that our diversification in our Private Equity To exceed our benchmark.
Our net asset value total return was 15.4%, well ahead of the total FCITs share price total return vs Benchmark, return of 7.9% for the 40% FTSE All-Share and Close Peers and Retail Prices Index 60% FTSE WI World ex UK benchmark.
over 10 years To beat our close peer group.
The size weighted 220 average net asset value total return of our close peer group was 13.4% against our total return 200 of 15.4%.
180 To develop our private equity strategy.
We had 160 excellent performance from our private equity 140 portfolio, which grew to 7.4% of the portfolio.
120 To increase the dividend faster than the rate of 100 inflation.
The total dividend for 2007 will be 10.4% Source: Fundamental Data higher than the previous year.
97 07 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust total return The share price at 31st December 2007 was Composite Benchmark 40% FTSE All-Share 60% FTSE WI World ex UK 318.75 pence, up 12.0% over the year.
Since the Close Peer Group total return weighted average year end, stock markets around the world have been Retail Prices Index very volatile and share values have fallen, with the 2 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC investments should help us in what is likely to be a We are now forecasting a total dividend for 2008 more difficult year ahead for the private equity sector.
of 6.45 pence per share, representing an increase Our buyback policy is one of the most robust in the of 10.3%.
This continues our record of increases investment trust sector.
We bought back 8.6% of our well ahead of the rate of inflation.
At the same time shares, adding 3.2 pence to net asset value per share.
we have substantially strengthened our revenue I explained last year that the Board were adding reserve.
This means we can pursue our investment performance against our closest peers to the objective with complete flexibility and have no need benchmark performance criteria already included to make investments just for income reasons.
The in the performance fee arrangements with F&C.
We dividend has increased every year since 1970 are pleased that F&C have earned a fee of 6.2m and we believe the cumulative effect of a rising for performance against these two measures.
If dividend is a very important part of shareholder the Companys net assets at the beginning of the returns, particularly for the increasing proportion year had simply been invested in the benchmark, of shareholders who reinvest their dividends.
This the return earned on your behalf would have time next year I expect to be able to make a firm been approximately 177m less than was actually forecast for the 2009 dividend.
Similarly, had the growth in your opening assets only matched the weighted average return FCITs annual dividend per share vs AIC Global of our close peer group, the Company would have Growth sector dividend per share weighted average and Retail Prices Index over 10 years earned 47m less than was achieved in the year.
240 In consideration for this out-performance, the Managers performance fee is relatively modest and 220 well-earned.
Excluding the effect of outflows from 200 share buy-backs and dividends, your Companys 180 performance equates to growth in your opening assets of approximately 364m.
160 We are also pleased that our total expense ratio, 140 including this performance fee, is still only 0.71% of 120 average total assets and 0.48% excluding this fee.
Source: Fundamental Data This is far lower than most other investment trusts, 100 Dec 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 Dec let alone open-ended funds.
97 07 Following two recent rulings on VAT, which are Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust annual dividend per share described more fully in the notes on the accounts, AIC Global Growth Sector ex FCIT we are no longer paying VAT on management fees, dividend per share weighted average which cost us 446,000 in the last full year it applied.
Retail Prices Index We have recognised 5m as recoverable in our 2007 accounts to reflect the majority of past VAT payments.
Your Board expects that in time there Directors could be modest further recoveries, including some As I explained last year, Ewen Macpherson and interest.
John Rennocks will be retiring from the Board after the Annual General Meeting.
They both became Dividends Directors in 1997 and have made a huge contribution This time last year we forecast a total dividend for to the Board and its committees since then, for 2007 of 5.85 pence per share, an increase of 10.4% which I am very grateful.
The interim dividend of 2.70 pence per I also indicated that we were looking to recruit new share was paid in September 2007, and the Board talent to our Board, and I am pleased to report that is recommending a final dividend of 3.15 pence per we have found three new excellent directors who share to be paid in May 2008. will bring a wide range of experience and skills to Report and Accounts 2007 3 Chairmans Statement continued our Board.
Stephen Burley, who became a Director the structure and fee arrangements with F&C and on 1 January 2008, has a wealth of investment the role of Jeremy Tigue, our Fund Manager, has knowledge from a successful career managing the been enlarged.
We believe these changes have been Rio Tinto Pension Fund for 25 years.
Sir Roger Bone good for shareholders.
KCMG, who became a Director on 6th March 2008, Friends Provident has recently announced had a distinguished 38-year career in the diplomatic that it is intending to sell its 52% shareholding in service serving as British Ambassador to Sweden from F&C Asset Management PLC, which owns our 1995 to 1999 and to Brazil from 1999 to 2004, and Manager, F&C, and at the same time the F&C Asset is now President of Boeing UK.
Stephen Burley and Management Board announced that it would Roger Bone will be standing for election at the Annual be closely involved with the sale process.
Sir David Clementi, who will become Board is carefully monitoring these developments a Director on 23 May 2008, is Chairman of Prudential at F&C and is looking for a satisfactory outcome PLC and a non-executive Director of Rio Tinto PLC.
to ensure the continued successful management He was Deputy Governor of The Bank of England from of your investments.
In the event of a change of 1997 to 2002 and prior to that had a successful career control of F&C, we have the right to terminate in investment banking at Kleinwort Benson Group from our management agreement with F&C on three 1975 to 1997, latterly as Chief Executive.
Following the annual performance appraisal process, the Board is also recommending the Strategy for shareholder value re-election of Sir Michael Bunbury who has served Making your money grow is our business.
We believe on the Board for ten years and therefore now stands we have significant strengths to enable us to do this for re-election each year.
successfully over the long term.
Following the Annual General Meeting, it is planned 1,000 invested 20 years ago that Max Ward will become the Senior Independent total return basis Director.
Sir Michael Bunbury will become Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Ronald Gould will join this Committee.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust 9,924 share price It is proposed that the Private Equity Committee Close peer group share price and the Service Providers and Marketing Committee 9,163 weighted average will be dissolved on 1 May 2008, as both these FTSE All-share 7,855 committees have achieved their main objectives.
The Private Equity Committee has successfully carried Building society deposit account 2,600 out the transition towards holding a significant Source: Fundamental Data and the AIC interest in private equity and the Service Providers and Marketing Committee has extensively reviewed The first strength is our focus on equities which we and encouraged F&Cs promotion and marketing believe will produce the best combination of longof the Company.
Their ongoing responsibilities will term income and capital growth.
We are on target be reallocated to the Fund Manager or the Audit to reach a 10% weighting in private equity in 2010.
Committee as appropriate or, in certain cases, to the We expect private equity will continue to outperform Board.
listed markets, so enhancing our own returns.
The second is our global reach and ability to Management move assets around the world.
In the last five years After its annual comprehensive review, the Board our positions in emerging markets have added has decided that F&C should continue as Manager significantly to our overall returns.
and believes that their re-appointment on the terms Within markets we can do whatever is best to achieve agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
returns using F&C, using other managers or funds or Over the last two and a half years we have changed 4 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC any combination of these.
We have more flexibility than Electronic communications ever before to find the best solutions in each market.
Arrangements have been put in place for Sensible use of gearing has been a feature of shareholders to access the Annual Report and Foreign and Colonial for decades and the ability to Accounts 2007 via the Companys website and, for borrow in any currency to add to returns is a big those holding their shares directly on the Companys advantage.
main share register, to lodge their proxy vote online.
Buying back shares at a discount to net asset We intend to implement similar arrangements for value enhances net asset value per share and investors in the F&C savings plans later in the year.
Our size means we can manage this easily without jeopardising our low total F&C Savings Plans proportional voting expense ratio.
F&C has modified its arrangements under which Not all of these attributes will work each year, investors in its savings plans vote at shareholder but we are confident that they, together with our meetings.
Under the new arrangements, it is intended low expense ratio, will contribute to the long-term that the nominee company, which holds 36.5% of the absolute and relative performance of your Company.
Companys share capital on behalf of these investors, will vote the shares held on behalf of plan holders who Marketing have not returned their voting directions in proportion We have more shareholders than any other to those who have.
Plan holders have the right to investment trust and a significant long-term growth exclude their shares from the proportional voting opportunity with Child Trust Funds.
We need to arrangement if they wish.
It is intended that F&C will work hard to promote Foreign & Colonial to new implement this arrangement for the Annual General investors, and as part of our marketing initiatives in Meeting, subject to a threshold of 5% of the shares 2008 we are sponsoring a garden at the Chelsea held in the savings plans being voted.
Flower Show, as we believe there is a good match between keen gardeners and potential investors in Annual General Meeting our shares.
I do hope you will be able to attend the Annual General Meeting at Merchant Taylors Hall in the City The future of London at 12 noon on Thursday 1 May 2008.
Our 2008 has got off to a difficult and volatile start and Fund Manager will make a presentation and you will there is a significant risk that the credit crunch may be able to meet and question the Directors at the cause a global recession.
The impact of high oil, meeting and afterwards over refreshments.
commodity and food prices on inflation is another major concern.
However, the US is moving quickly to try to revive its economy with interest rate cuts and a fiscal stimulus.
If it succeeds, there could be some very attractive buying opportunities at some point during the year.
Mark Loveday Chairman 7 March 2008 Report and Accounts 2007 5
