qxd 27 3 08 03:10 Page 3 OPERATIONAL REVIEW KEY RISKS SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK FINANCIAL REVIEW Executive Chairmans Statement The company is refocused, with the prospect of becoming self-financing, and capable of funding further investment, particularly in profitable international territories.
2007 started with a good deal of promise.
The A year of two halves... economic environment was on an improving trend, enabling us to remove the last remaining market value reductions for our customers with unitised with-profits investments.
Over the first half of the year, we extended the Groups international reach by launching our first product into the Singaporean market, and built on our recently-established foothold in the German pensions market.
In the UK we were attracting record levels of new pensions business, consolidating our position as a leading provider.
We were also delighted to have secured the acquisition of two successful and profitable intermediary businesses the Sesame Group and Pantheon Financial representing sound financial investments as well as bringing us closer to the needs and aspirations of customers and professional financial advisers in their respective markets.
In contrast, the second half of the year could not have been more different, becoming extremely challenging for global economies in general, for financial services as a whole and for the ongoing advance of the Friends Provident Group.
In the UK, the sight of thousands of customers queuing to withdraw their savings from Northern Rock remains an enduring image of the year, Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 3 FP AnnRep 001-045. qxd:30349 Frontend.
qxd 27 3 08 03:10 Page 4 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL KPI SUMMARY EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHANGE IN STRATEGY EXPLAINED FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS epitomising the fallout from the sub-prime mortgage We now have a strategy that, we believe, will achieve lending worries that surfaced in the US and our aim of maximising value for our shareholders, and reverberated around the globe.
Although its impact we are determined to deliver against this new strategy helped to drag down stock values generally, financial as swiftly as we can, recognising its urgency.
services were hit the hardest.
It is disappointing to The current structure of the Friends Provident Group report a 25% decline in the value of our shares over includes ownership of three businesses that now fit the year the first annual decline since the stock less comfortably within our new strategy.
F&C Asset Management, in which we hold a 52% Further disappointments were the termination of controlling stake, Lombard, based in Luxembourg, our merger agreement with Resolution plc and the and the more-recently acquired adviser firm, subsequent standing down of our Group Chief Pantheon Financial.
All three are very good Executive, Philip Moore.
This merger was absolutely businesses.
We are actively engaged with their the right strategy for our Board to pursue and would respective management teams to establish strategies have created significant long-term value for customers that maximise value for our shareholders while and shareholders alike.
The prospective merits of the minimising disruption to these businesses.
merger were validated by the subsequent bidding Dividend battle for control of Resolution.
Your Board is recommending a final dividend for Strategic review 2007 of 5.30 pence per share, which would bring the The failed merger heightened media and market total 2007 dividend to 8.00 pence per share, a 2% speculation regarding the Friends Provident Groups increase over 2006. future and, to restore certainty, we announced in Since our stock market listing in 2001, we have November our undertaking of a strategic review with increased the dividend to shareholders by around 2% the aim of maximising value for shareholders.
This each year, which is less than inflation and therefore root and branch review embraced every aspect of does not represent real growth.
After payment of the our business and, as a result, the Board concluded final dividend for 2007, we will reduce the overall cost that a significant change in strategic direction was the of the dividend to a level that reflects the dividend right way to create value in the Group.
paying capacity of the Life & Pensions business and We announced the new strategy at the end of January adopt a policy of growing the dividend in line with this year, together with an indication of the significant operating cashflow in future.
The Board believes that fall in profits expected for 2007, and both of these are this offers the prospect of dividend growth in real explained in detail over the following pages.
terms in the years to come.
The strategic review was necessary, albeit painful.
Board changes The outcome, however, repositions Friends Provident A number of changes to the Board were addressed very positively, such that we can have confidence in in our 2006 Report & Accounts.
The two subsequent its future.
It has enabled us to put in place a long term, changes were the appointment of Gerhard sustainable, capital structure and dividend policy, Roggemann as an independent director in June 2007, supporting the Groups further growth.
Not only will we and the change of my own role to Executive Chairman be restructuring the company to reflect better its new until our new Group Chief Executive, Trevor shape and focus, but also we will rebuild our structure Matthews, joins us, which is likely to be July this year.
of financial controls to ensure future management Alison Carnwath will be leaving the Board at the decisions can be taken with confidence.
The company conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
is refocused, with the prospect of becoming selfAlison has served on the Board since December 2002 financing, and capable of funding further investment, and, notwithstanding her relocation to New York particularly in profitable international territories.
4 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007Annual Report & Accounts 2006 FP AnnRep 001-045. qxd:30349 Frontend.
qxd 27 3 08 03:10 Page 5 OPERATIONAL REVIEW KEY RISKS SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK FINANCIAL REVIEW following her appointment as the Chairman of MF Global in July 2007, has continued to play a most All those who work for the Group have effective part in the Board's proceedings.
She will been tremendous, more than meeting be much missed.
the many challenges throughout 2007 Jim Smart, our Chief Financial Officer, has notified and maintaining the excellent service the Board of his intention to leave the company after levels that have become the hallmark our interim results in August 2008.
Jim had been of Friends Provident.
expected to leave under the terms of our proposed merger with Resolution plc last year but, following the termination of that merger agreement, he agreed to remain with Friends Provident to help me lead our strategic review.
The Board is enormously grateful to Jim for his huge contribution to this review and for his ongoing commitment to help move this programme of change even further forward over the coming months.
I want to pay tribute to those directors who have left us and joined us over the past year, for their significant contribution and commitment, and to thank all my Board colleagues for their ongoing support as we navigate the Group through this challenging period.
We are also delighted to have recruited Trevor Matthews to lead us forward from here.
Trevor is a natural leader with a profound understanding of the insurance business, both internationally and in the UK.
His track record is outstanding, and his decision to join us is, in itself, an important expression of confidence in the business and its new strategic direction.
All those who work for the Group have been tremendous, more than meeting the many challenges throughout 2007 and maintaining the excellent service levels that have become the hallmark of Friends Provident.
It is a sincere regret that a consequence of our strategic review is that there will be in the region of 600 fewer people employed by Friends Provident over the next two years, and we will do all we practically can to help and support those who are affected.
Finally, our Annual General Meeting is on 22 May 2008 and I look forward to welcoming all of you who are able to attend.
In any event, may I encourage you all to vote, online or by post, on the resolutions being put forward at that important meeting.
Sir Adrian Montague, Executive Chairman Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 5
