04 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Chairmans Report The Chairmans lot is a happy one when, as last year, the Annual Report can laud a share price out performance both against the FTSE 100 and the FTSE Banks index.
Not so in 2007, where our share price fell some 35%, a performance that was in the middle of the pack, but of little consolation for a bank that seeks to outperform.
This years report will therefore examine with our usual frankness the performance in 2007 and the strategy we are pursuing for our shareholders in 2008.
Shareholder returns Underlying earnings per share grew 6% in 2007 to 106.2p 2006 100.5p.
This is after recording negative fair value adjustments on traded investment securities of 227m and claims of 135m arising from the summer 2007 oods.
Pro t before tax fell by 4% to 5,474m 2006 5,706m, also re ecting the disposal of Drive in 2006 and the reduction in policyholder tax payable.
The proposed final dividend per share of 32.3p takes the full year dividend to 48.9p, up 18% on the previous year.
The Boards decision at the half Dennis Stevenson year to increase the payout ratio to some 46% from Chairman 41% has been reaf rmed.
This is a clear demonstration of the con dence we have in the continuing earnings momentum and strong cash generative capabilities of HBOS.
During 2007 we completed the planned buyback programme, purchasing some 500m of shares in issue for cancellation, with a positive impact on earnings per share for current shareholders.
Market dislocation If ever the boards of banks, regulators or rating agencies needed a reminder of the importance of strong liquidity and strong capital, the second half of 2007 served as a wake-up call.
Seemingly overnight, we moved from a scenario where the economic cycle looked set to play out in a relatively benign way, to one where a credit crunch in the USA rapidly deteriorated into what is, as I write this, a worldwide liquidity dislocation.
Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05 05 Large scale credit loss announcements gathered For 2008 we will continue to pay careful attention pace with those most exposed to the US sub-prime to the importance of both strong capital and strong fall out seeking to draw a line under their exposure.
liquidity and to size our balance sheet to the certainty Banks with strong liquidity hoarded it, those that of both.
We are, I believe, rightly proud as a Board that needed it either couldnt get it or paid much more for we have been altering the risk pro le of our liquidity it.
In the eye of the storm, nemesis followed hubris, requirements over the last four years, long before the with traditional market solutions seemingly impossible.
current so-called liquidity crunch and without any Banks now know, as in truth they always did, that first external pressures from regulators or other shareholders and foremost, it is the duty of the Board to ensure that but purely as part of being good custodians of your the Group has financial stability and the wherewithal to business.
You may be quite sure that we will continue continue in business pro tably.
Gradually this current to bring to bear the same standards of rigour and market liquidity dislocation will pass.
The legacy financial conservatism as the business moves forward.
however, will be rstly economic, as the consequences Shareholder feedback of the medicine will likely make the patient feel worse This years independent audit of UK and international in the short term and secondly strategic, as banks investor opinion again makes interesting reading.
Investor adjust to the new reality of liquidity and capital having feedback is currently focused on two large shifts in equivalent importance.
In this context, we welcome their views of the sector: a much higher emphasis on the con rmation from the FSA of our status as an capital, liquidity and funding and a lower expectation Advanced bank under the new Basel II capital regime.
for earnings growth, with concerns over risks to future Unusually perhaps, at so early a part of my report, I would earnings forecasts.
Sentiment is dominated by the sector like to thank colleagues from across the Group for their liquidity issues in the second half of 2007.
In the midst of the unprecedented market investor professes to be in a wait and see mode until dislocation, colleagues have adjusted plans, tightened after the publication of the sectors 2007 results and the controls further, communicated well and worked in a clarity those should bring to the full earnings impact of a truly collegiate manner to see HBOS through the worst truly annus horribilis.
The messages for us are that we of the market disruption in 2007.
It is arguably only at should continue to keep focusing on what we do well, such times that you can truly assess the quality of the remaining conservative in our planning and decisive in our investment made in colleagues, and the business, over actions.
This does not exclude the continuing imperative time.
The Board has been hugely impressed with the of constantly searching for where the growth will come way in which the entire HBOS team has responded.
from to continue the earnings momentum.
Finally, as much a plea to the sector as to HBOS, investors make Strategy the point that in times of uncertainty, communication is Recent market liquidity considerations do not affect our vital and transparency is essential.
On both we score well long-term strategy.
Growing the UK businesses, targeted relatively but are nonetheless encouraged to do more.
international growth, cost leadership, capital discipline and colleague development remain our five key measures.
In the Chief Executives report that follows, Andy Hornby reviews our performance in 2007 on these measures.
06 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Chairmans Report continued Regulation John E Mack joined the Board as a Non-executive The regulatory agenda shows no sign of abatement Director with international banking experience in a career although the existing enquiries into banking fees and encompassing senior executive roles at Bank of America payment and protection insurance have a clearer deadline and Shinsei Bank of Japan.
We welcome them both and for conclusion.
By far the most signi cant development the considerable experience they bring to the Board.
for 2008 will be the regulatory aftermath of the financial Having completed two three-year terms as a Nonmarkets dislocation.
The conventional wisdom that executive Director, Charles Dunstone will retire at the something needs to be done will see a healthy debate forthcoming AGM in April and will not offer himself for on customer protection.
Regulators and the Central re-election.
Charles has been a magni cent colleague Banks need to strike the right balance between achieving and we thank him very much for his contribution to HBOS.
a better level of investor protection on the one hand and the further restriction of liquidity with unintended Corporate Responsibility economic and anti-competitive consequences on the We take Corporate Responsibility CR very seriously.
There can, however, be no substitute for the By this we do not mean the somewhat super cial CR acceptance of responsibility by individual banks, since whereby a quantum of money is parcelled up into penny reliance on regulation to protect investors, retail, equity packets and given to good causes.
We take CR to or debt, is at best a back stop, not a first line of defence.
mean the Board of HBOS being very comfortable that it is doing everything it can to ensure that every aspect The Board and Management of its business its products, its treatment of staff, In 2007, we made a number of changes to our Executive customers and other stakeholders conforms to the structure with responsibilities at the Retail bank split on highest standards of behaviour.
The Board reviews the a product and distribution model.
Jo Dawson adds Retail overall CR strategy annually.
Our CR agenda has been distribution to her Insurance & Investment portfolio and ably championed at Board level by Phil Hodkinson.
With Dan Watkins, formerly Group Risk Director, joins the main Phils retirement, the CR mantle and the Board challenge board as Chief Executive Retail Products.
As a direct for future progress now passes to Peter Cummings.
consequence, Benny Higgins left the Board in August as no suitable role existed for him in the new structure.
2008 Phil Hodkinson, Group Finance Director, announced his Rarely can a Chairman predict with such con dence the retirement from the Board to take effect from the end of shape of markets in the year ahead.
Our prognosis is for 2007 and we welcomed back to the Board, Mike Ellis as continuing uncertainty in the money and capital markets, Group Finance Director.
Phils contribution to the Board, and for slower volume growth in most of our trading in his roles as Group Finance Director and previously Chief markets.
Tough though this may be, we are con dent Executive of the Insurance & Investment division, together that we are well positioned to take advantage of the with his role as the Board champion on Corporate opportunities that this scenario will inevitably present Responsibility has been outstanding.
and that we will continue to create shareholder value in these markets.
To do so requires no let-up on the Philip Gore-Randall joined the Board as Chief Operating discipline we apply to each part of our strategy.
Philip has had a long career with extensive will be tempered as necessary by strong capital and experience, in the UK and overseas, at a senior level in liquidity disciplines.
It is managements job to ensure large financial organisations, joining HBOS from Aon UK that HBOS capitalises on the opportunities that present Limited, where he held the role of Chief Operating Of cer themselves in every market scenario.
We are well placed following a period as Chairman and Chief Executive of to capture our share of the markets in which we operate.
Shareholders can be assured that the perspective that shapes our ambition is the recognition that responsibility for the Companys performance is ours and ours alone.
Dennis Stevenson Chairman Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Business Review For more information please visit www.
com 07 In this section you will nd: 08 Chief Executives Report 14 Five Year Summary 15 Divisional Reviews Retail Corporate Insurance & Investment International Treasury & Asset Management 69 Group Finance Directors Report 85 Risk Management 105 Corporate Responsibility Retail Corporate Insurance & Investment International Treasury & Asset Corporate Management Responsibility
