IG Group Holdings plc 0 Chairmans Statement Report and Financial Statements 2007 Revenue for the year was up 36% to 122m and profit before tax was up 35% to 69m Chairmans Statement t is my pleasure to present this statement after another During the year I stepped down as chairman of the successful year at IG.
Revenue for the year was up 36% remuneration committee.
My replacement is Roger Yates, I to 122m 2006 89m and profit before tax was up our senior independent non-executive director.
These results were the product change in order to ensure compliance with recommended of our continuing focus on broadening our domestic and corporate governance best practice.
international client base by offering high quality dealing platforms, an extremely broad range of products and excellent Dividend customer service.
At the AGM your board will recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.5p per share.
This brings the total dividend for Our international strategy continues to be to widen our the year to 8.5p, an increase on last year of 55%.
This makes the geographic spread where local regulation and market total dividend for the year approximately 60% of earnings.
I am pleased with the progress that policy, which we will review from time to time, will be to pay we have made in the past year in the Asia Pacific region and a similar proportion of earnings in the future.
a change from our previously stated policy of paying approximately 50% of earnings.
Your board believes that this Board change is merited by the accumulation of surplus capital over We announced a little over a year ago that Tim Howkins the past two years.
would be taking over as Chief Executive as soon as a new Finance Director was appointed.
This change took place At 31 May 2007, the Group had an overall consolidated at the beginning of October on the appointment of Steve regulatory capital surplus of approximately 44m before Clutton.
The transition went very smoothly resulting in the payment of the final dividend for the year.
The board will delivery of continuous strong performance by the restructured continue to monitor and maintain a prudent regulatory capital management team.
I would like to close by extending my thanks to all my colleagues at IG, whose skill and hard work have been instrumental in delivering the strong growth in revenue and profit that we have experienced over the last year.
Together with all my colleagues at IG, I look forward to working towards another successful year for our business.
J R Davie Chairman 23 July 2007 IG Group Holdings plc 0 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Chief Executives Report
