British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 04 Chairmans statement We believe that British Energy is well placed to secure a valuable role in any new nuclear programme as a result of owning sites suitable for new construction and the skills and experience of its staff in operating nuclear plant.
in financial terms, this has been a good We have made good progress in year for British Energy but it could have extending our fixed price sales book been much better had it not been for to an extent that would have been our well publicised operational issues.
almost unimaginable at the time of our re-listing in January 2005.
Eggborough, output from the nuclear stations has our coal-fired power station, has had been disappointing.
there have been a very good year and is performing several challenges, in particular the at a very satisfactory level.
boiler issues at our hunterston B and hinkley point B stations, which have strategically, this is an interesting given rise to prolonged outages.
it is a and potentially significant time for credit to the skill and dedication of our the Company.
the governments staff that these two stations are now in Energy White paper published on the process of returning to service.
23 May has highlighted the important part that nuclear generation could play Despite these major setbacks there are in delivering a low carbon economy.
We signs, as Bill Coley our Chief Executive, believe that British Energy is well placed discusses in his review, that all the work to secure a valuable role in any new we are doing on investment in the plant, nuclear programme as a result of owning human performance and work processes sites suitable for new construction and and on further enhancing our nuclear the skills and experience of its staff in safety culture is starting to show results.
We have sizewell B, our pWr station, is producing initiated a process to seek partners for a level of performance that ranks with new nuclear build that has attracted the worlds best.
significant interest from utilities, suppliers, customers and financial investors.
We hope in due course to cement one or more partnerships.
B u s i n E s s s u M M A r y 81.5 06 07 75.9 05 06 04 05 03 04 02 03 PENCE British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 05 During the year roy Anderson, our Chief once again i would like to thank all the B A S I C E A R N I N G S P E R S H A R E nuclear officer stepped down from the British Energy staff who have worked Board.
Following this years Annual hard this year in a, sometimes, general Meeting, Clare spottiswoode extremely challenging environment.
will retire from the Board after five and a half years service.
i would like to We still have much to achieve.
our extend my thanks to both roy and Clare improvement programme is starting for their contributions to British Energy.
to show signs of progress.
i remain As is our usual practice stephen confident that we can deliver significant Billingham, John Delucca and pascal value to shareholders in the years Colombani will be standing for ahead.
re-election to the Board at our AgM British Energy group plc was as will sir robert Walmsley.
listed on the London stock Exchange in January 2005, i am pleased to confirm that the Board therefore, no comparable information is available.
has agreed to recommend the payment of a base dividend of 13.6p per ordinary Sir Adrian Montague CBE share.
this is our first dividend since Chairman the Company was re-listed.
in line with our stated dividend policy, we will also consider the payment of an additional dividend in respect of financial year 2006 07 in early 2008 after taking account of the Companys financial condition at that time.
