04 Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Chairmans Review exclusive rights to distribute new antibody product lines with three companies.
In August 2006 we announced an exclusive deal with Triple Point Biologics Inc. for a range of 350 antibodies with the delivery of another 360 antibodies over the next three years.
We followed that by signing similar agreements with Assay BioTechnology Company Inc. a US firm that tests, validates and markets research antibodies, and with Diaclone, which is part of the Tepnel Group and develops antibodies and kits in the UK.
ABT have already made 500 products available to Abcam on exclusive terms and are committed to adding a further 3,000 to our portfolio over the next five years: Diaclone has made 341 products available with exclusive distribution rights in the Americas and Japan.
Abcam is becoming increasingly visible on Since our last annual report we have the world stage as an important contributor continued to attract top-quality staff.
We to the field of antibodies and related medical now employ 27 PhDs out of 131 full-time employees and are currently in the midst disciplines.
Our market reach makes us of a recruitment drive as we increase attractive to suppliers, and our customer production at the HTP facility.
Last July we announced the appointment of two new base now extends across almost 60 countries, Non-Executive Directors: Tim Dye and thanks largely to our reputation for reliability Mark Webster.
Both have proven to be extremely valuable additions to the Board.
and trust in the marketplace.
After almost eight years as Finance It gives me great pleasure to report on a business district of Tokyo, the office gives Director, a period including Abcams second outstanding year for Abcam as a us a strong foothold in one of the most successful IPO in 2005, Eddie Powell has public company.
Building on the growth rapidly growing antibody markets in the indicated his desire to leave the Company we enjoyed in 2006, we have produced world.
Having a local presence will greatly to allow him to take a career break and another excellent set of results whilst improve the quality of the support we can subsequently to be available for consulting making some important investments in provide to Abcam customers in this region.
We are already well under way the year, which will serve as a springboard With this goal in mind we have also in appointing Eddies successor.
Eddie to even greater success in the future.
enhanced the Japanese version of our will be stepping down from the Board on website.
Whilst these are early days for 20 November 2007, following which we First of all, the construction of our HTP the Japanese business, we are will retain his services as an adviser.
facility in Cambridge UK has been encouraged by its performance during We owe him a debt of gratitude for his completed on schedule and operations its first few months.
valuable contribution to building the have already started.
The facility will help Company and wish him well for the future.
Abcam to take advantage of new business Although we plan to enlarge our portfolio opportunities, such as a better Pharma of antibodies produced in-house, we Abcam is becoming increasingly visible Biotech offering and potentially diagnostics.
continue to build relationships with institutes, on the world stage as an important academic laboratories and primary contributor to the field of antibodies and In addition to the HTP facility, we officially manufacturers that supply products to be related medical disciplines.
Our market opened our new office in Japan in sold under the Abcam brand.
Over the last reach makes us attractive to suppliers, December 2006.
Located in a prominent financial year we have also acquired the and our customer base now extends Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Abcam plc 05 across almost 60 countries, thanks largely to our reputation for reliability and trust in the marketplace.
A recent internally commissioned independent report named Abcam as one of the top five research antibody companies in the world, and in 06 07a year in review some of our Core Focus Areas CFAs, such as chromatin research, we believe we are the market leader.
June 2007 With the landmarks we have reached this year, and the initiatives we have unveiled, Over 33,000 products in Abcam has laid solid foundations for our catalogue expansion in the future.
We remain firmly The number of products available in our committed to our mission to build the catalogue hit 33,900, including more than largest online catalogue of the best 25,000 antibodies and 8,000 related antibodies in the world.
products such as proteins, peptides and kits.
New products from Abcams own Once again I am grateful to all of our staff development facilities and external for their efforts during the year and take suppliers continue to be added on a daily basis to the catalogue, which has grown the opportunity to thank our customers, at a compounded annual rate of 54% since suppliers and shareholders for their its inception in 2002. continued support.
Dividends December 2006 The Directors policy since the IPO in November 2005 has been to distribute New Japanese office 25% of earnings as dividends.
However, Abcam opened its second overseas office in view of the continuing strong cashflow in Tokyo, Japan.
The move represents a and growing success of the Group, the major push to increase sales in East Asia.
It will help Abcam to improve the quality Directors have decided to increase the of the technical support it offers customers distribution to 33% of earnings.
An interim in the region and speed the delivery of dividend of 0.8p per share was paid in Abcam products to Far East markets.
April 2007 and the Directors are therefore recommending a final dividend of 3.19p per share, making a total for the year of 3.99p.
Subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting in November, this dividend will be paid on 7 December 2007 to shareholders on the register on July 2006 Ongoing 9 November 2007.
New Cambridge Core Focus Area initiative Outlook Following an in-depth study of the market manufacturing facilities Abcam has chosen seven Core Focus We are entering the current year with an Abcam launched a major project to expand Areas CFAs, each of which represents exciting platform for growth and current its laboratory and production capabilities.
a research area with high market demand.
trading in the first few months of the year A new development facility in Cambridge, We have vertically integrated our business UK, will allow Abcam to significantly boost has been strong.
The Board is confident development, manufacturing, marketing, the production of high-margin antibodies of the outlook for 2008. sales and technical support teams around over the next six years.
these areas and expect to add a further three CFAs by June 2008.
