Chairmans statement Dear Shareholder I am pleased to report that the financial year ended March 2007 was another excellent year for the Group delivering record pre-tax profits of 224m.
Our growth has resulted from our continued focus on innovation to meet changing market requirements, partnership with our fellow investors, a rigorous credit culture and the high calibre of our employees.
We are particularly pleased with the performance of our global network, which continues to develop and thrive even in continued competitive market conditions.
During the year we opened new offices in Sydney and Tokyo and are already experiencing increased deal flow from these regions.
Indeed our Direct Investment business, where we take investments to our own balance sheet, achieved excellent results across all regions, with Continental Europe flourishing despite the maturity of this market.
During the year we arranged or provided 1.2bn in 31 transactions.
Of this 727m was held on our balance sheet and 426m was taken by our funds.
After taking into account the high level of repayments our balance sheet portfolio grew by 17% in the year to 1.7bn.
Our Fund Management business goes from strength to strength, with a 93% increase in our funds under management to a total of 5.8bn, of which 69% was invested as at the end of March 2007.
In the year we completed fundraising for our latest mezzanine fund, the 2.25bn European Fund 2006.
On the non-mezzanine Fund Management side we closed two new Collateralised Debt Obligations, increased the size of the Eurocredit Opportunities Fund and our Institutional Mandated Funds.
The Fund Management business complements our Direct Investment business, ensuring that we have the resources to be selective and proactive in the transactions in which we choose to participate, while the fee income generated provides a stable and growing earnings base.
The previous periods results were presented for a 14 month period.
All comparative data is based John Manser, Chairman upon the previous period on an annualised basis.
Fee Income Generated provides a stable and growing earnings base 4 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts cost of our debt, we wanted to Eric Licoys and Peter Stone will retire Excellent results ensure that our borrowing facilities at the AGM.
I would like to thank Core income grew by 21m to are aligned with our strategy of them for their considerable and 112m, an increase of 23% driven geographic expansion and investing helpful contribution as non-executive by net interest income and a 40% in a variety of subordinated Directors over the last nine years, a growth in fee income.
Furthermore we period of sustained growth.
another record gain on investments, wanted sufficient flexibility to make up 59% from last year at 197m.
opportunistic investments through a The Board remains committed to This was due to the high number of turn in the credit cycle.
Our debt maintaining the highest levels of realisations of warrants and equity capacity has increased from 1.5bn governance and compliance.
We are investments, as private equity to 2.0bn of which 1.2bn was keenly aware of the need to ensure sponsors took advantage of drawn at year-end.
that our business is responsive to the continued buoyancy in the market to needs of clients, investors, staff and realise profits by way of exits.
After With gearing at 192% and, having the wider community.
impairments, the Medium Term amended the terms of our facilities, Incentive Scheme, and other we believe we are very well placed to This years AGM will be held on expenses, pre-tax profits increased take advantage of adverse conditions 18 July 2007 at our offices at 20 Old by 37% to 224m.
Broad Street in London, and I hope to have the opportunity to meet you there.
If you miss it, we will be Increase in dividends Board and governance recording interviews for our website Our objective remains to provide In September 2006 Philip Keller www.
double-digit percentage increases in was appointed to the Board as our dividend broadly in line with Finance Director.
Prior to joining Motivated employees growth in core income.
The Board is ICG, Philip was Finance Director at recommending a final dividend of ERM Holdings Ltd, one of the I would like to thank our employees 41.5p net per share to be paid on worlds largest environmental for their hard work and commitment 27 July 2007 which, with the interim consultancies, during a period when in helping to deliver another excellent dividend of 16.5p net per share, it undertook two leveraged buyouts.
In recognising the brings the total for the year to 58.0p His wealth of financial, business importance of the team, we are per share.
This is an increase of management and strategic planning constantly working hard to attract 21% over the previous period experience has already made him the highest quality people while calculated on an annualised basis, a strong addition to our senior maintaining an attractive working reflecting the percentage increase executive team.
environment for the existing staff.
In March 2007 we were pleased to Outlook The dividend will be paid to announce the appointment of Jeanshareholders on the register on Daniel Camus as a non-executive I am very pleased to report that we 6 July 2007.
Jean-Daniel have started the new financial year has more than 20 years of experience well.
We have a strong and diversified in private equity.
He was a founding portfolio of investments, selected to Enhanced capital position partner of Orium, a proprietary be robust in more difficult market The Group continues to be well investment firm, which he joined from conditions.
In spite of this we are placed financially with a strong LBO France, a pioneer of leveraged expecting prices and structures, balance sheet and positive cash buyout investments on the continent.
driven by excess liquidity in debt flows.
During the year the Group The Board believes that Jean-Daniels markets, to get worse before they undertook a thorough review of extensive private equity experience get better.
We are experiencing higher its balance sheet in the light of will enable him to make an extremely levels of repayments as companies favourable conditions in the credit valuable contribution to the work seek to replace mezzanine with market.
As well as reducing the of the Board.
We do not see this Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 5 Chairmans statement continued trend reversing or slowing down in the We believe we can do more in the short-term but are determined to next year and beyond by continuing maintain our credit discipline.
to put our partnership approach, Consequently it is possible that our credit culture and bespoke tailoring balance sheet may fail to grow and at the heart of everything we do.
even if it does grow, net interest We will continue to seek attractive income may fall as spreads continue opportunities to expand to tighten.
Our portfolio and cash geographically, in our core markets reserves anticipate the volatility and and in our product offering, where opportunity that will result when the they complement and enhance our market turns.
Although the market is existing businesses.
Indeed we will increasingly competitive, our network shortly be opening an office in New is still originating a number of York.
We have a strong balance investment opportunities which meet sheet.
The permanent capital it our rigorous credit standards.
provides will give us a considerable advantage over the competition when We are a leading provider of the market turns.
We look forward to intermediate capital in our chosen the future with confidence.
markets, and the fund manager of choice for our investors.
We will invest in the necessary people and infrastructure to maximise value to our shareholders, investors and clients.
We will continue to be innovative where appropriate, tailoring solutions to meet demand in changing markets.
John Manser We expect our Fund Management Chairman business to show steady growth in 12 June 2007 income this year and beyond.
We will maintain the efficiency of our balance sheet to give us greater flexibility and capacity whilst ensuring our investment strategy is driven by long term value creation.
Our Network is still originating a number of investment opportunities which meet our rigorous credit standards 6 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts
