Chairmans Statement Britvics profit before tax, in its second On 29 August 2007 we completed the year as a public company, rose 9.7% to acquisition of Britvic Ireland.
The business 61.3m, on the back of revenue growth has leading positions in a number of soft of 5.7% to 716.3m.
Earnings per share drinks categories, great owned brands, rose 10.9% to 20.4p per share, and the PepsiCo relationship and a strong cash ow was strong with free cash management team.
There are substantial ow generation of 75.1m excluding benets from the bringing together of the impact of the acquisition of the our two companies which should quickly soft drinks and distribution businesses ow through to financial performance.
of C&C Group plc Britvic Ireland.
The strength of our market positions, Gerald Corbett This was a strong set of results given particularly in the growing stills section Chairman that the summer of 2007 was one of of the market, our brands, our new the worst on record with the inevitable product development, our efficiency impact on the soft drinks market.
programmes and the benets of our The achievement of a robust financial Irish acquisition, give us confidence for performance against the background another good year.
This confidence and of difficult conditions was the result of our cash ow underpin the Boards successful actions by our management decision to propose a final dividend of team.
In sales terms, we out-performed 7.7p, making the total for the year 11.0p, the British soft drinks market, building a 10% increase on the previous year.
on the strength of our brands, and our On behalf of the Board I would like to innovation programme delivered in line thank our executive team and all Britvic with expectations.
The continued employees for their hard work and improvements in our business processes commitment during the year.
This strong resulted in an increase in average realised result is to their credit, and gives us all price.
Costs, margins and cash were all confidence in a positive future.
tightly controlled and we undertook the outsourcing of our secondary distribution network, stripping out significant cost from the business and allowing us to concentrate on core activities.
As the The achievement impact of the poor summer weather of a robust financial became clear, management rapidly recongured the business for lower performance against levels of demand to produce a solid second half performance.
the background of The performance of Pepsi and 7UP, which difficult conditions we bottle and market in Great Britain GB, has been particularly pleasing.
was the result Our programmes have delivered a healthy volume and revenue performance.
of successful PepsiCo is our major commercial partner and our relationship, which dates back actions by our over 20 years, has now been extended management team.
We are committed to their success and they to ours.
