Chairmans Statement Peter Warry Chairman Group delivered record sales, strong profit growth and excellent cash ow.
6.19p 27.1p Total dividend per share Earnings per share 2006 4.95p 2006 21.0p THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 02 I am pleased to report a year of considerable We recognise that the success of the Group achievement: the Group delivered record reects the skill, energy and dedication of our sales, strong profit growth, excellent cash ow employees.
The Group benets greatly from and a number of acquisitions were made that their knowledge and expertise as well as their open up new growth opportunities.
relationship with our customers and suppliers.
The Group places great importance on the Results and Dividends welfare of our employees and I am pleased profit before tax increased by 28.2% to to note that Health and Safety training has 47.3m 2006: 36.9m on revenue of contributed to a significant reduction in 1012.1m 2006: 863.6m, an increase reported accidents.
I would like to take this of 17.2% on last year.
opportunity to thank all our employees for their hard work and continued support.
It is Earnings per share increased by 29.0% encouraging that so many of our employees to 27.1p 2006: 21.0p and the Board are shareholders and therefore able to share in recognition of the strong earnings in the Groups success.
performance proposes a final dividend of 4.550p per share 2006: 3.525p, Prospects an increase of 29.1%.
On 10 April 2007, the Group acquired the trade and assets of BuckHickman InOne from Excellent cash performance is reected in Premier Farnell PLC for a consideration of free cash ow of 25.5m 2006: 10.3m, 27.0m.
This business now trades under the an increase of 147.6% on last year.
name of Buck & Hickman Limited Buck & Hickman and together with Price Tool Sales Operating Performance Limited Price Tools forms a separate Both the Industrial and Domestic Specialist Division within the Group.
Buck & Divisions, have delivered good sales growth, Hickman specialises in the distribution of increased market share and improved industrial supplies including power and hand operating margins.
tools, and personal protective equipment.
The market for these products in the UK The Industrial Division has seen increased is in excess of 2bn per annum.
Buck & involvement in major contract work Hickmans revenue for the year ended 28 capitalising on expenditure in health, January 2007 was 99.8m and the business education and infrastructure projects.
made an operating loss of 0.8m.
It is The Division continues to build a growing expected that this acquisition will be earnings reputation for service, reliability and neutral in the year ending 31 March 2008 technical expertise that underpins its trade.
The Domestic Division has added 32 The Group will revitalise the existing Buck & new branches to its network, expanded into Hickman branch infrastructure as well as using Northern Ireland through the acquisition of the branch network within the Industrial and Spendlove C. Jebb, as well as achieving good Domestic Divisions to drive growth of the organic sales growth in its core branch network.
The Domestic Division continues to benefit from focusing on the repair and maintenance Investment in infrastructure together with segment of the market and it is encouraging steady growth in repair and maintenance that the Division is benefiting from a broader spend underpins our assessment of the market product offer and is developing a wider opportunity.
The product offering is being customer base.
extended in both the existing Divisions and investment levels in new and ongoing The acquisition of AHED Limited AHED branches increased, in line with the Groups in January of this year has strengthened the strategy for organic growth with bolt offering to second tier merchants.
being fully integrated into F & P Wholesale: has been returned to profitability and gives the The Board believes that the Group is well Group a market leading position in this sector.
positioned to take full advantage of growth opportunities that the market presents, and People management is focused on realising the The Board has been strengthened by the Groups full potential.
appointment of Alan Ball, who has led the growth of PTS for the last two years, in The new financial year has started well and November 2006.
The Executive Committee we are trading in line with our expectations.
is working well together, showing The outlook for the Group remains positive.
considerable energy and is focused on the further development of the Group.
Peter Warry Chairman 29 May 2007 THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 03
