Operating & Financial Review CHAIRMANS STATEMENT partly offset by exceptional restructuring Performance costs, impairments and other charges I am pleased to report that the Group totalling 16.4 million.
has made further good progress in 2007.
The excellent work done by The underlying trading profit before Dominic Burke and his management exceptional items and impairments was team over the past two years has 62.1 million, 6% ahead of the prior brought clarity to the strategy, structure year or 9% at constant rates of and culture of the Group.
The underlying trading and notwithstanding the headwinds we margin improved to 13.1% from 12.8% continue to face, the Group is well in the prior year.
Investment income for placed to achieve further profitable the year increased by 0.6 million to We anticipate that growth in 2008.
the combined impact JLT achieved a good overall Underlying profit before tax, exceptional improvement in its underlying of actions taken over items and impairments was 82.5 performance for the year.
million, 8% ahead of the prior year the past two years This was despite the challenging or 11% ahead at constant rates of insurance market conditions and weak and our current exchange.
This reflects the benefits of US dollar which continued to prevail the London Market restructuring strategic initiatives through 2007. completed in the first half of 2007 and will enable JLT to the work undertaken to better align our Turnover for the year was 473.2 costs with revenues.
million, 3% ahead of 2006, or 4% continue to deliver ahead at constant rates of exchange.
Profit after tax and minorities value to our increased by 26.2 million to 72.4 Profit before tax was 95.2 million shareholders, clients million, reflecting the net gain from compared to 90.8 million in 2006, exceptional items and impairments of up 5%.
This includes an exceptional and employees.
12.7 million, while underlying profit gain of 29.1 million arising on the after tax and minorities increased 10% completion of the merger of French to 55.9 million.
associate SIACI with Assurances et Conseils Saint-Honor ACSH, NUMBER OF STAFF A BALANCED BUSINESS by geographical region Turnover Europe 3000 17% 41% Asia 650 42% Americas 900 Retail Australasia London Market 800 Employee Benefits 4 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Operating & Financial Review Underlying diluted earnings per share Finally, in December 2007 we Outlook increased 9% to 26.0 pence per share announced the establishment of We anticipate that the combined impact while diluted earnings per share was Thistle Underwriters Limited.
of actions taken over the past two years 33.7 pence per share compared to Thistle is at the forefront of a major and our current strategic initiatives will 21.6 pence in 2006. international Group initiative to drive enable JLT to continue to deliver value forward JLT's activities as a value added to our shareholders, clients and Throughout the year, insurance market distributor and service provider of employees.
conditions continued to be very insurance products.
Thistle Underwriters competitive as many insurers sought to is expected to commence trading protect and build market share.
towards the end of the second quarter We do not believe that this is going to of 2008 subject to regulatory approval.
change in the short to medium term while there remains an excess of Share Buy-Back capacity combined with the recent As detailed in the Finance Directors relatively benign claims experience.
Review, on 20th November 2007 the Meanwhile, the intense competition Group announced the commencement between brokers continues.
of a rolling share buy-back programme.
The report of the Chief Executive This is subject to market conditions and and review of operations cover the the Group's ongoing capital performance of the Group in more requirements and is consistent with our detail.
focus on efficient capital management and enhancing returns to shareholders.
Strategy and Corporate Geoffrey Howe We will be seeking renewal of our Developments Chairman authority at the forthcoming AGM.
Our strategy continues to be centred on 20th March 2008 the commitment to the five principal Our Staff lines of our business being: retail: I would like to thank the senior specialty: wholesale: reinsurance and management team and all JLT staff for employee benefits.
We continue to their continued hard work in 2007. focus on our leading market positions The quality of our people, the and existing strengths and to take teamwork they demonstrate and their advantage of our diversified and willingness to go the extra mile balanced business mix.
differentiates us from our competitors There is a good balance of earnings and gives us great confidence for the between the different businesses across future, notwithstanding all the the Group, each with their different challenges we will undoubtedly characteristics.
The strategic review undertaken over the past year has resulted in a number Dividends of initiatives.
JLT has been reshaped and Subject to shareholder approval, an is well positioned to move forward with unchanged final dividend of 12.0p per its growth strategy based on start-up share for the year to 31st December growth opportunities: bolt-on 2007 will be paid on 1st May 2008 to acquisitions: better collaboration around shareholders on the register at 4th April the Group and continuing improvement 2008.
This brings the total dividend for in operational efficiencies.
the year to 20.5p per share, unchanged over the prior year.
At the beginning of 2007 we announced the establishment of a joint venture with ICAP plc and our joint venture in China is now gaining momentum.
In August 2007, we announced a number of strategically important bolton acquisitions which have now been successfully integrated.
We are confident that our financial objectives for these acquisitions will be achieved.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 5 Chairmans Statement Operating & Financial Review CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT JLT's 2007 results demonstrate how Underlying results exclude one-off items, much progress has been achieved as a which contributed a further 12.7 million result of our programme of work to to net profit before tax.
This was made reposition the Group during the past two up of a 29.1 million profit on the years.
This progress has been achieved restructuring of our investment in France despite insurance market conditions less 16.4 million exceptional costs and having been as soft as seasoned market impairments of which the major part practitioners can remember, and despite comprised restructuring spend to the prolonged weakening of the US improve the quality and efficiency of dollar against the pound and intense many of our core operating systems and price competition from the larger, global processes going forward.
JLT now has an These are a good brokers.
In these circumstances it is a associate interest in a larger and more great tribute to the commitment and rounded French broker, SIACI Saint set of results which professional excellence of my more than Honor.
5,000 colleagues around the world that demonstrate that JLT has reported satisfactory results.
Simplified Group Structure JLT is firmly on As a result of the rebuilding work we The structure of the Group's operations have done, JLT is now well placed to in the London market was simplified and track to deliver grow even in current industry conditions clarified with effect from 1st January and to benefit significantly when those sustainable 2007.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited conditions begin to improve.
was established to bring together the profitable growth.
industry-leading specialist teams, The 2007 results show fee and servicing sectors ranging from Our results in the commission revenue of 473.2 million, Construction to Natural Resources that 3% up on 2006.
Underlying profit before final quarter of previously formed part of JLT Risk tax increased by 8% to 82.5 million and Solutions and Agnew Higgins Pickering.
underlying earnings per share grew by 2007 showed real The Group's London and Bermuda 9% to 26p.
wholesale operations were consolidated traction set against in the enlarged Lloyd & Partners.
2006 comparative results for these businesses have been compiled on a pro forma basis.
BUSINESS REVIEW Retail London Market Employee Benefits TURNOVER TURNOVER TURNOVER 07 196.8m 07 193.5m 07 81.5m 06 197.1m 06 75.9m 06 182.1m TRADING PROFIT TRADING PROFIT TRADING PROFIT 07 26.7m 07 36.6m 07 13.7m 06 23.3m 06 38.1m 06 13.1m TRADING MARGIN TRADING MARGIN TRADING MARGIN 19% 21% 14% 12% 17% 17% 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 6 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Operating & Financial Review Jardine Lloyd Thompson Limited was prospects for Lloyd & Partners, which 16%.
This resulted in part from the the outstanding success of 2007. has invested significantly in 2007 consolidation of the JLT-SIACI businesses Despite the difficult trading making a number of new senior hires in Italy, Poland and Spain of which we environment, revenue growth of 2% and extending its areas of activity, are took shareholding and management was achieved and, with trading margins encouraging.
control during 2007 - margins were up from 8% to 14% as a result of the temporarily reduced as we worked to For JLT Re, 2007 was the second in a cost base re-engineering effected in assimilate these operations.
The Asian five year programme to build and shape later 2006 and early 2007, trading profit and Australian businesses also reported our position as a significant broker and rose by 78% to 15 million.
The drive revenue growth and sustained profit adviser in the major reinsurance to take full advantage of our sector margins.
In Latin America, the Mexican markets.
The 8% decline in total specialist strengths to develop new operation, which specialises in handling revenues masks the progress achieved in products and propositions to meet the the large risk portfolios of government the year which resulted in large part needs of our client is palpable and the agencies, had a very difficult year due to from our decision to exit certain lower consequent success in retaining and client losses but we took effective action margin business areas less strategically winning new clients most pleasing.
to stabilise the position as the year relevant to the development We have targeted a 20% trading closed.
The other Latin American programme.
Activity levels in the margin for Jardine Lloyd Thompson businesses fared well.
reinsurance markets generally, and Limited for 2011. particularly in Catastrophe affected The Captive Management group has Lloyd & Partners, with its remit to areas, came under increasing pressure in been renamed Insurance Management develop the Group's international 2007.
This affected some of our signalling our wider ambitions in this wholesale operations now clearly traditional areas of strength, such as area and a number of important defined, suffered from client losses Aviation, Marine and Energy facultative investments have been made in this in the Bermuda broking business reinsurance and underlined the business area and revenue growth in which occurred before it assumed importance of our increasing scale in 2007 was encouraging.
responsibility for this business in the Non-Marine and Treaty markets, using 2007 was a less active year for the earlier part of 2007.
With the our analytical expertise as a key Employee Benefits industry generally acquisition of Park in July 2007 and marketing tool.
after all the statutory, regulatory and the launch of the merged JLT Park as Our retail insurance broking activities fiscal changes of 2006.
Nevertheless, JLT the largest independent wholesale performed strongly overall, with Employee Benefits in the UK recorded broker in Bermuda, the trading revenues up by 8%.
The revenues of 7% revenue growth and held its trading performance is being restored and the the UK and European operations rose by margin at 17%.
Our increasing success GROUP TURNOVER Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Risk & Insurance Employee Benefits 83% 17% London Market Retail 41% 42% Jardine Lloyd Lloyd & JLT Re UK Australia Asia Latin Canada Insurance Thompson Ltd Partners Europe New Zealand America Management REINSURANCE SPECIALTY WHOLESALE AVIATION 23% 9% 9% 13% 14% 7% 3% 4% 1% Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 7 Chief Executives Report
