JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 4 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that it has been another successful year for your Company, on all fronts.
The net asset value total return of the Growth shares was 17.5% 2006: 40.0% over the twelve months to 31st March 2007.
A narrowing in the discount from 7.5% to 5.5% resulted in a share price total return of 19.8% 2006: 45.6%.
These figures compare with a rise of only 12.0% in the benchmark index, the FTSE World Europe ex UK in Sterling terms.
The Income shares had a satisfactory debut: their net asset value and share price appreciating by 16.5% and 16.2%, respectively, compared with a 15.7% rise in their benchmark over the eight months from launch to the end of the financial year.
More importantly, however, than these very positive one year results, given your Companys goal to achieve total returns over the long term, is the extension that they have given to the long-term out-performance by the Company, compared both with the market and with other competitive trusts.
Over three years the net asset value and price of the Growth shares have appreciated annually on average by 24.5% and 29.1% respectively, compared with just 21.5% by the benchmark.
Over five years the net asset value and share price have appreciated by an average of 13.0% and 14.0% annually, compared with 9.9% by the benchmark.
More importantly, however, than these very positive one year results, given Company Reorganisation your Companys goal to achieve total One of the most significant developments of the year was the capital restructuring returns over the long term, is the on 2nd August 2006.
In response to the demand from investors for access to higher extension that they have given to the yielding equity investments in Europe, the Company issued a new class of Income long-term out-performance by the shares with mutual conversion rights between them and the ordinary shares which Company, compared both with the were simultaneously re-classified as Growth shares.
It established a new portfolio market and with other competitive of higher-yielding shares, separate from the Growth shares portfolio but, trusts.
Over three years the net asset importantly, using the same best of growth and best of value criteria that form the value and price of the Growth shares basis of its overall investment strategy.
With the addition of the Income shares and have appreciated annually on average cross-conversion rights, the Company aims to meet a wider universe of by 24.5% and 29.1% respectively, shareholders needs more comprehensively than heretofore, while adhering to its compared with just 21.5% by the core strategy and skills.
Review of the Market As to the future, the main trends and factors underlying the positive development, performance and position of the Company over this last year are still in place to affect positively the Companys future development.
The Investment Managers Report on pages 7 and 8 of this report describes in detail the economic and corporate influences on performance over the year.
The broad trends in economic growth and company profitability that have buoyed European share prices over the past year remain in place, and your Board is confident that they will remain fundamentally positive over the year to come.
Although there is a possibility that recent moves in interest rates may squeeze, in the short run, the ample liquidity in capital markets that has fuelled the rise in asset values, there is as yet no indication of systemic equity overvaluations.
Of more specific relevance to stock selection the growing forces of global competition will continue to exert pressures that expose real value differentiation between companies.
Therefore your Board is confident not T H E C O M P A N Y 5 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Chairmans Statement continued only of the continuing relevance of the Companys investment goals in Europe, but also that the means to achieve them the rationale for seeking to identify the best of value and the best of growth, and the stock selection skills and process - remain intact.
Gearing and Risk It is sometimes tempting in rising markets to increase the level of borrowings.
This gears up the impact of an appreciating portfolio on the net asset value of the shares and exploits a key advantage of the investment trust structure as compared to unit trusts, which cannot borrow in the long run investment trusts have, on average, notably outperformed their ungeared unit-structured competitors Source: Association of Investment Companies.
However, your Board is satisfied that the gearing limits imposed on the Manager of 90% - 120% remain appropriate.
The reason for these limits is the Boards view that wider discretion would deviate from the long-standing risk-management policy of the Company.
A wider latitude of overor under-investing would introduce too great a measure of potential volatility into performance, and hence increase risk for shareholders.
Discount Management Your Board views a higher risk profile as incompatible with the aim of serving shareholders who are committed to owning their shares over the long term.
Higher risks encourage short-term investors who seek to ride market upswings and jump clear sell their shares when the going gets tougher.
Excessive gearing might make the allure irresistible to such investors.
Therefore, consistent with our more conservative long-term target market, we avoid it.
The same focus on our shareholders needs informs the Boards policy on discount management also.
In bear markets, investors are attracted by the widening discount to net asset values at which the shares of investment trusts then normally sell.
Your Board seeks to avoid a widening discount by the introduction of the Companys current policy at the time of the capital reconstruction last August of buying in shares on occasions when, - temporarily, it hopes - sellers cannot be satisfied by natural market demand, so that the discount widens consistently beyond 5%.
The Board is aware that a prolonged future bear market like that of 2000-2003 could present this discount management policy with a major challenge.
Emerging evidence of such a debacle may tend to precipitate a change in the Boards view of its 10% cash limit, in order that the Company has the cash in hand both to protect the asset value and to finance discount-protecting buy-ins.
On the other hand, it is somewhat illogical for shareholders holding for the long term to require constant liquidity, which is a traders requirement.
The Board is aware that, over the 720 months between the end of world war two and current times, investors only had to be out of equities for the 50 most critical of those months for their annualised rate of return to fall below 5% - compared with the return of 14% for those who remained fully invested at all times.
This is a lesson from history that shareholders might recall when the next bear market comes around.
Dividends In the meantime, shareholders seeking larger short-term cash returns will, it is hoped, garner some satisfaction from the availability of the new Income shares.
The Board has a steadily progressive dividend policy and expects that the annual yield for long-term holders of these shares, given rising dividends on the underlying investments, will be in the range 3.0 3.5% although the yield on the current share price is only 2.6%, following its appreciation by 16% since the launch.
The dividend on the Growth shares this year was 3.80p per share, equivalent to a yield of 1.6% on the share price at years end.
T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 6 Re-appointment of the Manager Shareholders will note from the performance attribution table in the Investment Managers Report on page 8 - in which overall portfolio performance is attributed between the various individual key performance indicators - that stock selection and the tactical deployment of gearing are once again the two most significant contributors to overall performance.
Since these are the qualities along with overall administrative efficiency and cost effectiveness that top your Boards list of criteria for the appointment of the Manager, it again has no hesitation in re-appointing JPMorgan Asset Management as the Companys Manager for 2007 8.
Annual General Meeting This years AGM will be held at The Library, JPMorgan, 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Wednesday 18th July 2007 at 12.00 noon.
The Investment Managers will review the past year and comment on the outlook for the current year.
The meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch, allowing shareholders the opportunity to meet the Directors and the Investment Managers.
Please submit in writing any detailed questions that you wish to raise at the AGM to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM in person are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
The Board and I look forward to the future with confidence.
