JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 2 Chairmans Statement Over the year to 31st January 2007 the Companys total return on net assets i. e. with net income reinvested was 30.2%, which compares with a return of 24.3% on the same basis from the Companys benchmark index, the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment trusts.
The Company again benefited from the Investment Managers stock selection and asset allocation in particular and by being geared in the rising market.
It is pleasing to report that the investment managers have now outperformed their benchmark... the investment managers have index for seven consecutive years.
now outperformed their benchmark index for seven consecutive years.
Earnings and Dividends Earnings per share increased by 26.3% for the year, from 21.79p to 27.51p.
The Company has paid three interim dividends of 4.50p per ordinary share, and the Directors have declared a fourth quarterly dividend of 11.50p.
This gives a total dividend of 25.00p for the year and represents an increase of approximately 14.9%.
It is the Boards intention to continue to operate a progressive dividend policy and to increase the level of the first three quarterly dividends for the current financial year.
Share Price Discount The share price rose by 30.4% during the year and, including dividends paid, the total return to shareholders was 33.1%.
The discount to net asset value narrowed during the year from 9.3% to 8.9% with debt at fair value.
The average weekly discount with debt at fair value during the year was 9.7%.
Share Repurchases At last years Annual General Meeting shareholders gave the Directors authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares for cancellation.
During the year a total of 7.4m shares were repurchased for cancellation at a total cost of 75.7m.
The Board continued to take a proactive approach towards share repurchases in order to enhance the net asset value and minimise the absolute level and volatility of the discount on the Companys shares.
These repurchases have added approximately 2.2 pence to the net asset value per share.
The Board is therefore proposing that the authority be renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, as it remains an effective mechanism by which to achieve the aims set out above.
Board As I indicated in my statement last year Nicholas Berry and Simon Keswick are retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM and will not be standing for re-election.
Lord Rothermere has also decided to retire from the Board at the AGM due to the pressure of his other business commitments.
All three have served the Company with distinction over a number of years and I would like to thank them on behalf of the Board for the contributions that they have made to the success of the Company.
In particular I would like to thank Simon Keswick who served as Chairman for 13 years.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 3 Richard Hambro was appointed a Director on 1st October 2006.
He was a founder of J O Hambro & Company and is Chairman of J O Hambro Investment Management, a leading asset management company.
Ian Russell was appointed to the Board on 1st January 2007.
He was formerly Chief Executive Officer of Scottish Power.
Having been appointed to the Board during the year, both will stand for reelection at the forthcoming AGM and if appointed will be eligible to serve for a three year term.
The Directors retiring by rotation are Sandy Nairn and myself.
If re-elected, Sandy Nairn will be eligible to serve for a further three year term.
Having been a Director for more than ten years, in accordance with the Boards policy, I offer myself for reelection on an annual basis only.
Investment Managers During the year the Companys investment management team was strengthened with the addition of a third manager, Jane Lennard.
James Soutter, who has assisted Martin Hudson for the past three years, has decided to return home to Australia for personal reasons.
We wish him well for the future.
His successor will be appointed shortly.
Annual General Meeting The Companys one hundred and twenty first Annual General Meeting will be held at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Wednesday 16th May 2007 at 12.00 noon.
In addition to the formal part of the meeting, there will be a presentation from the Investment Managers who will answer questions on the portfolio and performance.
The meeting will be followed by a buffet lunch which will give shareholders an opportunity to meet the Board, the Investment Managers and representatives of JPMorgan.
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible at the meeting.
Please submit in writing any detailed questions that you wish to raise at the AGM to the Company Secretary at Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London EC2Y 9AQ.
Shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM in person are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Outlook The Board believes that UK small The Board believes that UK small and mid cap companies continue to represent and mid cap companies continue to good value.
With sustained earnings growth combined with reasonable valuations, represent good value.
continuing merger and acquisition activity and the Investment Managers consistent investment process, we believe that the Company can continue to deliver positive returns to shareholders.
Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman 11th April 2007
