6891 Report 2006-07 1 6 07 17:37 Page 38 CHAIRMAN'S LETTER Burberrys 150th year has been outstanding for both The year was also marked by important Board changes.
the business and the brand.
Angela Ahrendts assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2006, following a six month transition period with Looking at financial results, the Group generated total revenue Rose Marie Bravo, her predecessor, who became Vice-Chairman.
of 850m, representing 15% underlying growth and a sharp The smooth transition of responsibilities has contributed to the increase from the previous financial year.
Adjusted diluted EPS years successful outcome.
Other Board changes included increased 21% to 29.1p.
Burberry maintained its excellent return the departure of Guy Peyrelongue in March 2007.
Guy had on capital, at 34% for the year.
Cash flow remained strong, with been a non-executive director since Burberrys IPO in July 2002 the Group generating 85m of free cash flow.
In line with this, and I thank him on behalf of the Board for his contribution to the the Board has proposed a 31% increase in the full year dividend Groups success over the past five years.
In addition, the Group repurchased 62m of its own welcome to Ian Carter, who became a non-executive director shares during the year.
Ian is Executive Vice President of Hilton Hotels Accomplishments across the business underlie these financial Corporation and Chief Executive Officer of Hilton International Co. results: outerwear innovation, a dynamic marketing campaign, As I meet with the many parts of Burberrys business across increased store productivity, the accelerated pace of retail the globe, I see the excitement, determination and dedication expansion Burberry reached an historic milestone during of its people with respect to this iconic brand.
On behalf of the year, with retail becoming the largest distribution channel.
shareholders, I thank the team for their efforts during the year These accomplishments, all the more impressive in the context and congratulate them on these achievements.
Looking forward, of so much change, are discussed in the report that follows.
Burberry clearly has the brand, strategy and team for continued While achieving these results, we also planned for Burberrys success in this vibrant luxury goods market.
As part of enhancing the luxury quotient of our brand, John Peace we invested in collection development, the talent behind it, and Chairman marketing to support it.
Accelerating retail expansion required an increase in upfront expenses and capital commitments relative to previous years.
Building the operational capabilities of the business has also been a priority this years investment toward an integrated global supply chain is one example.
Project Atlas, Burberrys five year programme to redesign its business John Peace processes and systems, continued in its second year.
Although Chairman these initiatives have required significant investment in expense and capital today, we are confident of their returns in the future.
