qxd:23148 p001-005 31 3 08 17:15 Page 4 Chairmans Statement We added to our range of partnerships with leading UK financial institutions, signed a Memorandum of Understanding with two major Indian banks to set up a joint venture in India, and continued to drive further improvements to technology, efficiency and customer service.
In several areas, this studied approach to building the business organically has yielded outstanding results, none more so than in Legal & General Investment Management, where we finished the year with total funds under management of 297bn, up an impressive 64bn during the year.
Financial Highlights UK Life and Pensions delivered increased new business sales, up 8% Your Company again performed to 1,160m on an Annual Premium Equivalent APE basis, and worldwide well in 2007, making significant new business increased by 10% to 1,437m APE.
A broad Value EEV Operating Profit after significant one-off effects in 2006 and range of products, accessible 2007 was 912m 2006: 1,233m.
The Company retains its AA financial through a variety of channels, strength rating, one of the strongest in the sector.
and backed by a strong balance Shareholder Return, Dividend and Share Buyback sheet combine to create a The Total Shareholder Return TSR for 2007 was -14%.
This reflects the fact powerful proposition for customers that our share price, like those of other companies in the sector, fell during the in a competitive market.
The comparable figure for 2006 was 34%.
The Board continues to pursue its progressive dividend policy.
Sir Rob Margetts In July 2007 we increased the interim Chairman dividend by 7.5% to 1.87p.
We now recommend an increase of 7.6% or 0.29p to the final dividend, making a full year A Strategy for Long Term Growth increase of 7.6% or 0.42p.
This will be Legal & Generals strategy remains consistent year on year, as does our paid on 19 May.
In July, we updated the stock market on our capital position and continued determination to improve our delivery of that strategy.
In 2007 we announced a share buyback of 1 billion.
As at 17 March the buyback has focused on widespread implementation of operational improvements across returned over 568m to shareholders.
Our recommended dividend and our Legal & General.
We took important steps to restructure our balance sheet capital return programme are based on a thorough review of the Companys and improve our competitive position through more effective deployment of financial strength and current market conditions, bearing in mind our our resources our staff and your capital.
4 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23148 P001-005.
qxd:23148 p001-005 31 3 08 17:15 Page 5 commitment to a strong credit rating a working environment which we but also saves us printing and mailing and continued profitable growth.
feel offers an excellent context for over large volumes of paper.
They again responded Board Changes This years AGM will be held on magnificently to the challenges of the 14 May at the Institution of Engineering Robin Phipps retired from the Board business.
I and the whole Board would in July having served for 11 years as and Technology, Savoy Place, London like to express our appreciation of their WC2R 0BL.
an executive director, latterly with hard work in making your Company responsibility for UK Operations.
Outlook the success it is today.
Their engagement During a distinguished 25 year career Our combination of clear strategic in the business drives the unique with Legal & General, Robin was goals and a commitment to continuous Legal & General culture, and enables instrumental in building your companys operational improvement positions the Company to make powerful progress UK business to become one of the us well in a changing environment.
and to play a positive role in the wider countrys leading providers of protection, In the coming year we expect the more communities in which we operate.
annuity and savings products, and we are difficult conditions to continue with, in Shareholder Communications and AGM very grateful for his immense contribution.
particular, a slower housing market and Last year we introduced a new shorter Following Robins retirement, executive less confidence among UK consumers alternative to the Annual Report and directors John Pollock and Kate Avery and investors.
Despite this, we believe our Accounts: the Summary Financial have continued in their existing UK business is robust, capable of generating Statements.
This was positively received business management roles, reporting sustained profitable growth and value, by shareholders, and this year our directly to Group Chief Executive and increasingly well positioned communications continue to evolve.
John and Kate have been competitively for the future.
Your When we sent out the Interim Report, members of the Board since 2003 and Company is in a long term business, and we offered you some choices as to how 2001, with responsibilities for our Risk we believe the underlying demographics you would prefer to receive information and Savings businesses, respectively.
of our market continue to offer very in future.
We are now responding by Beverley Hodson stood down from considerable potential for Legal & General sending you information in your the Board at the 2007Annual General as a leading UK risk, savings and preferred format.
For the majority, Meeting AGM.
We would like to thank investment management business.
this means receiving Annual Report her for her contribution over six and a materials electronically.
Of those who half years as a non-executive director.
elected to receive a printed document, Our Staff most wanted to receive the shorter During 2007, we celebrated 10 years Summary Financial Statements.
I am of partnership with Unite formerly delighted that we have been able to work Amicus, our Trade Union.
Together with you to make this transition, which Sir Rob Margetts we have worked hard to bring about is not only better for the environment Chairman 7.
6% 912m 1, 437m Worldwide new Growth in full year EEV operating profit business APE dividend www.
