PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview This has been a successful year of Chairmans 16 transformation for PartyGaming.
Having faced huge challenges following statement the loss of three quarters of our business due to the change to US law in the final quarter of 2006, we focused on reducing our dependence on poker to become a multi-currency, multi-product and multiMichael Jackson lingual online gaming company.
This Chairman transformation did not interrupt our drive to expand the business and in 2007 we grew numbers of players, revenue and Clean EBITDA.
We also maintained our industry leadership and established a strong platform for PartyGamings future by continuing to execute our stated business strategy.
This Annual Report for 2007 details our achievements, provides informative insights into the day-to-day running of... in 2007 we grew numbers PartyGaming and demonstrates how we of players, revenue and strive to maintain high standards and protect the valuable bonds of trust we Clean EBITDA.
have earned and established with our customers and other stakeholders.
Our management and employees faced a very tough and demanding schedule for 2007.
They did not disappoint: they started the year at a fast pace by acquiring and integrating the trade and assets of two online casinos, EOL and IOG, as well as launching PartyBets and by aggressively pursuing new customer sign-ups.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview As well as rebuilding our customer base, Joining forces with the interactive side 17 we applied the finishing touches to of the English Football League provided our multi-currency and multi-lingual access to fans of over 70 different clubs functionality before taking them out to the whilst teaming up with Sporting Index marketplace.
We also introduced a enabled PartyBets to offer its customers number of improvements to the existing a full fixed odds UK horse racing service.
product range to cater for the different Internationally, the popularity of poker in demands of a more international Germany saw us create a free-play online customer base.
Poker remains the core poker school with the interactive subsidiary of our business, but our casino business, of RTL, Europes largest entertainment and PartyCasino in particular, stood out as media group.
By creating These alliances have been forged on a more European look and feel to more than just our operational business roulette and the introduction of more credentials.
Every alliance is also founded slots, complete with better graphics upon our gold standard approach to and technological enhancements, our socially responsible gaming and casino business has thrived.
The company that you keep is always a Protecting the vulnerable and preventing powerful testament to the quality and underage gambling are things that are standing of your business.
During the enshrined within our business philosophy.
In second half of 2007 we formed a number 2008 we will take a further step forward by of strategic alliances with blue chip ensuring every employee takes a course in companies.
The first of these was with Responsible Gambling Awareness.
This is in ITV, the UKs oldest and largest terrestrial addition to the many other existing training commercial broadcaster to which we schemes that together support our now provide a full suite of online gaming regulatory and licensing compliance.
brands including ITV Bingo, Emmerdale It also means that we can continue to Bingo, ITV Casino and Friends lead the online gaming industrys Reunited Poker.
standards for legitimacy, integrity and responsible behaviour.
Blue chips A succession of alliances with ITV, Sporting Index, RTL, Paramount and the Football League were all completed during the second half of 2007.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview Management Chairmans 18 All of PartyGamings achievements were made possible by strong leadership statement and by the great vision of our executive management team, led by Mitch Garber, Chief Executive Officer, and Martin Weigold, Group Finance Director.
The work ethic, professionalism and dedication of Taking a responsible approach is also a all our 1,200 employees, remain at the key theme in the way the Group manages highest levels.
We have deliberately chosen a more conservative Mitch, who orchestrated and led the path for compliance than certain of our transformation of PartyGaming following competitors.
Whilst this may result in lower the UIGEA, has decided not to extend revenue growth in the short-term, we his contract beyond May 2009.
As CEO, continue to believe that it will reap greater Mitchs business acumen, drive and long-term benefits for shareholders.
enthusiasm has permeated the As part of this process, in June 2007 we organisation and primed it for future announced that we had voluntarily growth.
Mitch will continue as CEO to approached the US Department of Justice ensure an orderly transition to his successor.
DoJ, having become aware that it was Whilst saddened by his decision, we are actively looking at our industry.
Our position confident about appointing a suitable has always been that we respect the laws replacement before Mitchs contract of the US, most powerfully demonstrated by expires and want to thank him for his our decision to cease immediately from enormous contribution to the Group.
taking deposits and wagers from customers During the year we were sorry to based in the US following the enactment of see the departure of Lars Berg, who the UIGEA, a position that a number of provided invaluable contributions as an competitors continue to ignore.
As at the Independent Non-Executive Director since date of this document, our discussions with before our stock market flotation in June the DoJ are ongoing and as a Board we 2005 and we wish him well for the future.
are focused on removing any uncertainty His place on the Board was filled by regarding possible legacy issues associated Tim Bristow, who has a great deal of with the Groups activities prior to 13 experience in finance and as Chief October 2006.
A successful conclusion to Executive Officer of Gibtelecom Limited, these discussions is one of our key strategic Gibraltars primary telecommunications objectives for 2008. provider.
Tim was also formerly the Financial and Development Secretary of Gibraltar and previously a Director at the National Audit Office, in London.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Overview In addition, I am delighted that we were 19 able to appoint four further Non-Executive Directors to the Board in the final month of 2007.
They are Stephen Box, former Finance Director of National Grid, who is also a member of the UKs Financial Reporting Review Panel, Lord Moonie, who has great experience in the political and technology arenas, John Davy, who has Multiple choice built a series of successful leisure businesses during the last 25 years, and Emilio Gomez, Our international appeal increased in who has had a successful career in 2007 through increasing the number financial services.
of our sites available in different languages and different currencies.
Dividends Whilst the Group has recovered well following the enactment of the UIGEA, the Board believe that it was inappropriate to pay an interim or final dividend in 2007 but continues to keep this position under review.
Outlook As the Group has expanded in non-US markets in the aftermath of the UIGEA and broadened its reach, our employees have continued to adapt and innovate both in response to as well as in anticipation of structural, regulatory and technological change.
Such attributes are rarely found in such abundance across a companys workforce and it is this, together with the Groups strong brands and technical knowhow, that supports the Boards confidence in the Groups prospects for 2008.
