Chairmans statement While Im pleased with our progress, I must underline that were only at the start theres a great deal more value to create and deliver.
The success of the structural A year ago, I was absolutely clear about our priority changes we made a year ago is there for all to see.
That has not changed: International has performed well delivering growth what I didnt anticipate was the scale and pace of operational in customers and revenues and, as a result, improved improvements that we would see in this first year of the EBITDA.
We have made a very encouraging start new approach.
to the Europe, Asia & US turnaround and we now So, while Im pleased with our progress, I must underline have sufficient visibility to believe that well deliver that were only at the start theres a great deal more value on our ambitious targets.
All of which reinforces our confidence in our future The move to separate our businesses into two discrete prospects which is reflected in the dividend.
Im operating arms both absolutely focused on their customers delighted to recommend a 34% rise in the final needs and the resulting smaller Central division acting dividend to 4.15 pence per share which, with the as a portfolio manager of the two has proved itself to be interim of 1.7 pence per share, gives a full year the right one.
This is evidenced by improving financial dividend of 5.85 pence per share, an increase performance and a strong balance sheet with shareholder of 30% over last year.
value rising by 1.5 billion this year.
Likewise, with a slimmed down main Board and Operating Boards for International and Europe, Asia & US, our new governance structure is working well.
As part of this new structure, we were delighted to welcome Simon Ball as a Non-executive Director who brings with him a wealth of financial acumen and investment experience.
The statement of the independent Non-executive Directors on page 35 speaks to all of this in more detail.
Looking to the future, its a case of more of the same.
With delivery and execution remaining our number one priority, the coming year will see us building on the success and accomplishments of the last and remaining focused on creating value for our shareholders.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to mention our people.
Specifically, I want to express my sincere thanks to each and every one of them for the significant effort they put in and commitment they show day in, day out.
