The Merchants Trust PLC Chairmans Statement from shareholders to hold shares in Treasury but we will continue Results to monitor how the use of this facility by the investment trust sector I am pleased to report that during the financial year the net asset develops.
value per share rose by 12.6% to 567.5p and the total return per share, including dividends paid, was 16.4%.
This compares with the On 29 June 2006 1,655,941 shares were issued at a small premium total returns of 11.3% and 11.2% recorded by the FTSE 100 Index to net asset value to former members of Allianz Dresdner Income and the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, respectively.
Growth Investment Trust plc, a split capital investment trust which reached the end of its planned life.
Gearing had a positive effect on the asset value, adding approximately 2.9% to the returns to shareholders.
The full Prospects performance breakdown is shown on page 3.
Notwithstanding recent market volatility, the corporate sector is In the twelve months to 31 January 2007, the Trusts share price continuing to perform well and the outlook for profits and dividends rose by 13.7% from 451.0p to 513.0p.
At 3 April 2007, the Trusts growth, at least in the short term, is promising.
However, the UK ordinary shares yielded 3.7% compared with the yield on the economy is likely to be sensitive to any further interest rate rises.
Market valuations in aggregate are reasonable although dividend yields are less supportive than a year ago, especially for medium Market Background sized companies.
As long as bond yields and credit spreads remain The UK equity market made steady gains for most of the year, relatively low, corporate activity and share buy backs should provide although it fell back signicantly during May and June.
This was further support to the equity market.
part of a wider setback that affected many financial assets.
However from mid June onwards the market resumed its upward path, Sir John Banham encouraged by a resumption of takeover activity.
Relatively low After over 14 years as a Director of the Trust, Sir John Banham will borrowing costs also helped support the economy and the stock be retiring from the Board after the AGM in May this year.
Dividend growth within the market has been healthy as his career Sir John has been the Chairman of a number of FTSE 100 companies cash ows have generally been strong.
companies, Controller of the Audit Commission and Director General of the Confederation of British Industry.
He has been able Earnings per share to bring a unique insight to our deliberations over the years and we In 2006 7 earnings per share rose by 14.0% to 22.17p.
The will miss his contribution and experience enormously.
increase in revenue of just over 3m reected good growth in dividend payments received by the Trust.
This years earnings do, Annual General Meeting however, include a number of special dividends received by the The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Trust totalling 1.3m 2006 nil.
Monday 14 May 2007 at 12.00 noon and we look forward to seeing as many shareholders then as are able to attend.
Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.1p per share Hugh Stevenson giving a total of 20.0p for the year.
Starting from a level of 4.15p in Chairman 1981 2, the dividend has been increased in each of the last 4 April 2007 25 years.
This is a notable performance which has been achieved during a wide variety of economic and market conditions.
Repurchase of Shares As the Trust has traded close to its underlying asset value during this period, no shares have been repurchased.
As in previous years, the Board is proposing to renew the authority to repurchase shares at the forthcoming AGM on 14 May 2007.
Since December 2003 it has been possible for companies, including investment trusts, to hold shares repurchased in the market in Treasury, rather than cancel them.
At this stage, your Board has decided not to seek approval 4
