qxd 4 3 08 13:38 Page 2 Chairmans statement 2007 was a momentous year for Cadbury Schweppes with the Boards decision in March to separate the Beverage and Confectionery businesses.
Subject to shareowner approval, this will bring to an end almost four decades of shared history since Cadbury and Schweppes were merged into one company in 1969.
Sir John Sunderland Chairman 2007 performance This is therefore the final annual report of Overall, the Group had a strong trading performance in 2007 Cadbury Schweppes plc.
It is also my last and, in the case of confectionery, an exceptional year.
Both Chairmans statement as I will be retiring following the Confectionery and Beverage businesses benefited from the completion of the Americas Beverages the improvements made in recent years, strategically and commercially.
The resilience of the businesses in the face separation, after which the two companies will of a deteriorating economic backdrop and sharply rising proceed with newly constituted boards.
commodity costs was also evident.
I joined Cadbury in 1968 and it seems appropriate At the Group level, revenues were 8.0 billion, an increase of 11%, and underlying profit was ahead 4%, both at constant to use this occasion to reflect on the evolution exchange rates.
Group underlying operating margins fell by of the company over these four decades.
120 bps, mainly due to the impact of beverage acquisitions Before doing that let me comment on the and Accelerade launch costs.
Underlying earnings per share year as a whole.
at 30.2 pence were ahead 2% at constant exchange.
Our Confectionery business delivered record base business revenue growth of 7%, driven primarily by double-digit growth in gum and emerging markets and a successful year for Cadbury Dairy Milk.
Despite the challenging cost environment, the Confectionery business improved its underlying operating 2 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights & Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Otherinformation U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 4 3 08 13:39 Page 3 margins before the impact of business improvement costs and However, it was becoming increasingly clear that in many foreign exchange rates by 30 bps as a result of better markets outside that region we lacked the scale necessary to operating leverage and a tight focus on cost control.
compete with the two majors of the industry Coca-Cola and Pepsi.
As a consequence we determined to exit those markets Americas Beverages performed well in challenging carbonated where we were relatively weak and bolster those where we soft drinks CSD markets with base business revenues up by were stronger.
US CSD market share rose by 40 bps despite the fact that the business was cycling a year of significant innovation activity.
This led in the USA to the further acquisition of Snapple and Commodity costs were more than offset through price our bottling subsidiary the Dr Pepper Seven Up Bottling increases and cost control, but underlying margins fell 340 bps Group.
due to the acquisition of lower margin bottling businesses and the losses arising from the launch of Accelerade, a new sports Elsewhere it led to a strategy of stepped divestment: drink.
the sale in 1996 of our share in CCSB the disposal in 1999 of our drinks interests in 160 markets Four decades of evolution around the world In a few months time, Cadbury Schweppes plc will once again the sale in 2005 of our European Beverages business.
become almost entirely a confectionery business as our Americas Beverages business begins its new, separate and Throughout this period we were also building our independent life as the Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc DPS.
confectionery business through acquisition, notably Trebor and The Cadbury plc business will be the worlds largest Bassett in 1989, but particularly in 2003 the Adams confectionery company, with a number one or number two confectionery company.
This $4 billion purchase transformed position in 20 of the 50 largest confectionery markets.
It will the Groups confectionery status by creating a strong number have revenues of around 5 billion and underlying operating two position in gum, broadening our geographical footprint profits of around 500 million.
It will be one of only three and eventually led to our leadership of the global listed food companies in the FTSE 100. confectionery industry.
This is in marked contrast to the situation in 1969.
At that time To buy is one thing, to execute another.
The successful there were around forty listed food companies in the UK with integration and expansion of this business is best demonstrated a dozen in the FTSE 100 as recently as the mid Eighties.
The by the stellar growth in our U. S. gum market share from newly merged Cadbury Schweppes had a turnover of around 27% when we bought Adams to closer to 35% now 262 million, and made 21 million trading profit.
Operations and much higher top line total confectionery performance, were largely limited to Commonwealth countries.
which grew at a compounded annual rate closer to 6% in 2003-6, and was over 7% last year.
With hindsight, it might be said that the marriage of Cadbury and Schweppes brought together two very different companies, As the above discussion makes clear, the past few decades driven perhaps as much by fear as by affection.
It was a time, have seen an enormous amount of change at the Group.
But after all, when the food sector was a ferment of merger activity.
the essence of what makes a great consumer goods company remains unchanged.
It is about great brands, great marketing The 1969 annual report commented that the merger enabled and innovation.
And like any successful business, management the combined company to develop its brands world wide on a has to deal with events whether they be weather, scale which would have been beyond the grasp of either commodities, or changing tastes.
2007 gave graphic evidence of a few of these perennial By 1980 the company faced a different challenge.
Thus: thousand people were employed at Bournville, a factory Brands 2007 was the year which saw the relaunch of the undertaking activities as varied as printing, carpentry, joinery, iconic Wispa brand.
engineering and tin can manufacture.
This model was redolent Innovation and new products our entry into the UK gum of a different age.
The decision was taken to dispose of markets with Trident offering new liquid-centre gum peripheral activities and focus on making and selling chocolate.
This chapter in the companys history was an important step in Great marketing the Gorilla advertising campaign for the development of its UK business.
Cadbury Dairy Milk has been one of the most successful and talked about campaigns of the year.
In 1985, under Sir Dominic Cadburys leadership, the company Commodity costs 2007 saw some very dramatic decided to exit the food and hygiene businesses and concentrate increases in commodity prices.
But we have seen this on confectionery and soft drinks.
This was a significant milestone before.
In 1975 the sterling price of sugar rose by 60%, milk on the road towards a more focused business.
Cocoa rose in price from 776 tonne in 1976 to 3,660 tonne in 1977.
It was an important year for two other reasons the first stake Changing tastes in the past five years we have seen the was taken in Dr Pepper, eventually to become a key corporate rise in consumer health awareness reflected in the trends asset, and the decision to merge the Coca Cola and Schweppes towards diet drinks, sugarless gum and darker chocolates.
beverages businesses in the UK resulted in the 1987 launch of Coca-Cola and Schweppes Beverages CCSB as a joint venture.
In 1995 we acquired the remainder of the Dr Pepper brand as well as a number of others such as 7Up in North America.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 3 U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 1 3 08 22:20 Page 4 Chairmans statement continued Corporate Governance This cannot of course prevent us from making difficult In 1969 the disciplines of investor relations and governance, decisions.
This was again captured by Sir Adrian Cadbury in the which are now so central to the stewardship of public 1981 annual report.
Reflecting on the companys response to companies, had hardly been thought of.
the structural decline in manufacturing jobs, he said The prime responsibility of an individual company faced with these As companies evolved beyond family businesses with fundamental changes.
must be to maintain its competitive predominantly small shareowners, the first phase in this ability.
If it fails in this it puts more jobs at risk and puts an evolution was the transfer of powers to professional additional burden on the community.
But what we have seen with the subsequent growth of the governance movement has been the increasing These dilemmas still engage the company today as it faces the influence of institutional shareowners.
ongoing challenge to remain efficient in a globalising world.
And the answers remain the same.
Although not without its moments of excess, improved governance has generally been a good thing for corporate I am confident that some of Cadbury Schweppes plcs Britain, stemming from the publication of Sir Adrian Cadburys longevity and success is attributable to its ethical heritage seminal report The Financial Aspects of Corporate which lends substance to the mantra Performance driven, Governance, published in December 1992. values led.
While much has changed both within and beyond the company, the imperative of running the business the right Unfortunately, governance has also sometimes served as a way has never changed.
Strong brands, supported by an ethical Trojan horse for anti-business sentiments.
Indeed, the growth culture, have remained constant.
of anti-business feeling the folly of seeing business as somehow standing apart from society, rather than being the It is this heritage of brands and values that underpins my engine that allows its needs to be met has been an unhappy confidence in the future of the company.
We have brands that regression in British society.
consumers love and the values which lie at the heart of Cadbury Schweppes resonate with the consumer.
This is a The first paragraph of Sir Adrians review reads The countrys powerful competitive advantage.
economy depends on the drive and efficiency of its companies.
Thus the effectiveness with which their boards discharge their Board changes responsibilities determines Britains competitive position.
They We welcomed Guy Elliott to the Board on 27 July 2007.
Guy must be free to drive their companies forwards, but exercise brings international business experience and financial acumen, that freedom within the framework of effective accountability.
both of which will be invaluable.
David Thompson retires from That is the essence of any system of good corporate the Board and as Chair of the Audit Committee in March.
thank David in particular for his eight year stewardship of the Committee and more broadly for his ten years of wise counsel A more succinct statement of the essence of corporate and service to the Board.
The Board also thanks Rosemary governance has yet to be crafted.
Thorne who resigned on 5 September 2007, after serving for over three years on the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination It is not only boards, of course, who hold management to committees.
So do shareowners and shareowner registers have been in a state of increasing flux with the rise of activist Dividends managers, hedge funds and private equity.
The Board will be proposing a final dividend of 10.5 pence, an increase of 6%, bringing the total increase for the year to 11%.
In their different ways, all of them are aggressive agents of This reflects the Boards confidence in the future prospects of accountability, arguably more so than their more conventional the businesses.
Public company life has, in short, become much more demanding.
Scrutiny is more intense, and Outlook tolerance of failure more limited.
We remain confident in the prospects for both businesses despite these more uncertain economic times.
Corporate social responsibility It is not just financial performance under the microscope.
We have already announced that, following the demerger, Recent decades have also seen an increasing emphasis on two new Chairmen will succeed myself Roger Carr for Corporate Social Responsibility, a movement whose central Cadbury plc and Wayne Sanders for the Dr Pepper Snapple insight has been that in a modern capitalist society it is not just Group Inc.
Both are highly experienced and bring first class what companies do that matters whether they meet their credentials to their respective roles.
targets or not but how they do it.
Finally, it has been my enormous pleasure to work with many This principle has always been part of Cadburys genetic code.
colleagues, in many disciplines, in most countries of the world.
The family, and later the company, were always keenly It is they who delivered success.
I thank them, and wish for interested in doing business the right way, and doing right by them even further prosperity in the future.
all those stakeholders with whom it had dealings shareowners yes, but also employees, consumers, customers, 4 March 2008 suppliers and the communities within which we operate.
4 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007
