CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement smaller increase in the main items of either engaged in hedging to protect the Performance expense, the investment management fee value of our investments or moved part of In the year to 30 April 2007 net asset and loan interest.
As Monks invests with the our cash balance from one currency to value per share, with borrowings at fair aim of achieving capital growth rather than another to achieve a similar effect.
value, rose by 5.9% and the FTSE World income and all costs are charged to the Index in sterling terms rose by 4.7%.
The Revenue Account, earnings may uctuate Discount, Buybacks and Buyback performance in the two halves of the considerably from year to year and the Policy Companys year was considerably different.
Board has taken these factors into account During the year the discount widened from In the first half, net asset value per share fell in recommending a final dividend of 2.65p 9.3% to 11.3%.
For shareholders who by 5.9% and the Index fell by 1.3%, while compared with 1.40p.
If approved, this will have no desire to sell their shares in the in the second half, net asset value per share make the total dividend for the year 3.15p, foreseeable future the uctuation of the rose by 12.5% and the Index rose by 6.2%.
an increase of 65.8% from the 1.90p paid discount is a matter of largely academic The share price ended the Companys last year.
interest, on a par with the weather forecast year at a new all time high of 300.2p, an for a place they have no intention of visiting, increase of 3.5% on the price at the end Investment Activity but for those shareholders who may need of the previous year.
The share price rose During the year we made signi cant to realise some or all of their investment, the less than net asset value per share as the possibility that they might only be able to do sales of both equities and xed income discount to net asset value at which shares investments amounting to 111.8m.
The so by selling their shares at substantially less traded in the market widened despite the than their net asset value is a more pressing largest reductions were in Japanese and repurchase and cancellation of 2.3% of the North American equities and there was also concern.
Since the price at which the shares in issue at the start of the year.
shares trade is determined by the balance a modest reduction in the UK.
In equities In the first half there were signi cant falls the largest net increase was in Europe and between those willing to buy and those in the two areas that made the largest willing to sell at a given price, an investment there were also net increases in the Far contributions to the good performance of the East excluding Japan and other Emerging trust can, in principle, prevent the discount previous year.
These were the large positions from widening beyond a predetermined Markets.
In xed interest there were net sales in Japan and in the oil sector.
While the of sterling, euro and US dollar bonds, which amount by buying back shares.
In practice, Japanese market remained lacklustre in the however, under certain market conditions were partially offset by purchases of higher final six months of the year, there was an yielding Brazilian local currency index-linked this could involve the Company repurchasing improvement in the contribution from our so much of its outstanding share capital that bonds.
The effect of these sales was to holdings in that market, and an increased increase the proportion of assets held in cash it would be forced to liquidate its underlying weighting in oil services companies within investments at disadvantageous prices deposits and to increase the income from the a broadly unchanged position in energyxed income portfolio despite the reduction and the expense ratio would rise to an related investments also proved bene cial.
In such circumstances in its size.
At the end of the year cash and Two factors common to both halves of the xed income investments were approximately the interests of continuing shareholders Companys year were a positive contribution would be harmed.
The Board has to take equal to borrowings at fair value.
from holdings in the Far East excluding Japan into account the interests of all shareholders Steps were taken to address the mismatch and the strength of sterling against almost all when considering its policy on buybacks between the currencies in which the other currencies, which reduced the return and seeks to adopt an approach that is Companys investments and its borrowings to sterling-based investors from investment in equitable.
Through the use of international markets.
forward currency contracts, borrowings During the year to 30 April 2007, 18.9m was spent on the repurchase of 6.71m and investments are now approximately Earnings and Dividend equally distributed by currency, re ecting shares at discounts ranging between 10.1% Earnings per share were 3.91p compared and 14.3%.
This increased net asset value no particularly strong view on the likely with 2.20p last year, an increase of 77.7%.
direction of future movements in currencies.
per share by 0.3% and, if the proposed This change arose largely as a result of a final dividend is approved, the total amount At times we have had views on currencies big increase in income from holdings of and on some of these occasions we have of money paid to continuing and exiting bonds and cash combined with a much Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
4 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT shareholders for the year based on the problems appear to be those associated that they will not be repaid in full: and the issued share capital at the year end will with excessively rapid growth, notably a rise ability of highly leveraged companies to be 27.7m, an amount comfortably in in in ationary pressures, and the general meet their obligations is dependent on the excess of the Companys earnings during trend in interest rates has been upward.
It maintenance of pro tability that is, in many the period.
remains to be seen whether there will be cases, already at a record level.
Against a sustained retrenchment on the part of this background a cautious approach to the Since the power to buyback shares was American consumers as a whole and also, use of gearing seems appropriate.
Net cash first granted in 1999, 107.3m shares if there is, whether this really matters, given after deducting borrowings at fair value at have been bought back and cancelled, the powerful driving forces of Chinese and 30 April 2007 was 0.1% of net assets.
representing 27.7% of the issued share Indian economic development and signs capital at the start of that period.
The Board of life in the previously moribund parts of AGM will continue to buy back shares if suitable Europe.
It may, however, be extremely Following changes to Company Law, the opportunities appear.
relevant for the prospects of individual Board is seeking shareholder approval companies.
For example, it may well be to amend the Companys Articles of Outlook that those companies that have prospered Association to widen the indemnity which One of the most remarkable features of the on the back of the willingness of individuals the Directors and other of cers are entitled last year was the strong performance of in Britain, America and a handful of other to receive from the Company.
Further details UK equities during a period when sterling countries to become ever more indebted of the proposed changes are set out in the was also exceptionally strong against the will experience tougher conditions, while Directors Report.
currencies in which a large proportion of the those more sensitive to the need to make pro ts of companies quoted on the London I hope shareholders will come to the Annual up for years of under investment in mining, Stock Exchange is earned.
As a result, General Meeting, which will be held on oil and gas extraction or to the growth of returns for a sterling-based investor from 1 August at 11am at the RSA, 8 John Adam aviation in Asia will struggle to keep pace investment in overseas markets compared Street, London.
Our manager will give a with demand.
unfavourably with the rise in the FTSE short presentation and there will be an An area of concern is the very small extra All-Share Index.
Had exchange rates not opportunity to ask questions.
return currently demanded for lending to moved as they did, relative performance borrowers who, based on historical patterns, would have been reversed, as in local may be unable to meet their obligations.
currency terms the major international This willingness to lend at low rates of markets, with the notable exception of James Ferguson interest is also affecting equity markets as that of Japan, rose by more than the UK 13 June 2007 private equity rms have also raised a lot market.
While not wishing to enter into of money, and the low rates of interest at speculation about the future course of which they can borrow have given them exchange rates, recognition of the unusual an enormous amount of repower with nature of the recent past cautions against which to launch bids.
Quoted companies extrapolation of the relative returns to a are also making an unusually large number sterling-based investor during this period into of takeovers nanced by cash rather than the future.
Our policy will remain to invest through the issuance of shares.
While this internationally to achieve capital growth.
continues, there is likely to be support for By the end of the Companys year it had those equity markets in which there is a become apparent that global economic reasonable probability that a takeover bid growth was continuing at a robust pace, will succeed.
The continuation of this state despite predictions that the bursting of a of affairs, however, requires the continued bubble in the US housing market would willingness of lenders to lend at rates that have dire consequences for growth do not appear to compensate them for risk elsewhere.
For much of the world the THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 5
