Chairmans Statement Performance Outlook The year to June 2007 was the fourth year in From the analysis of the companies in the portfolio, succession of very high returns for your Company.
and generally the quoted company sector in the UK, The NAV total return for the year was 18.2% prospects for the current year look reasonable.
Profits compared with a return of 18.4% for the FTSE-All are expected to continue to rise, as are dividends and Share Index.
The bulk of this return has been the valuation of the portfolio and market look fair.
generated by improved corporate profitability rather However, the current year looks more difficult than than by an improvement in the valuation of the its predecessors.
In the UK growth in government market which stands on a P E of 12 at the time of expenditure and consumer expenditure are both writing, admittedly after a sell-off in August from likely to be more muted than in the recent past.
which there has so far been only a partial recovery.
Although economic growth has helped government Over the last year UK equities have performed finances they are more stretched than for a long significantly better than bonds and property.
Personal debt levels have continued to rise and profitability, equity withdrawal has been a major are likely to put pressure on consumption, factor.
Over the year 65.1 billion of equity was particularly because there is much less support from taken out of the market by a combination of merger house price inflation, while more generalised and acquisition activity, both from corporate buyers inflation is not sufficient to make much impact on and private equity, and share buybacks.
This activity the real value of debt.
more than compensated for the continued pressure on pension funds to allocate assets away from Internationally, the long-simmering problem of US equities.
sub-prime mortgage lending and derivative structures based on it has now had a real impact on Dividends the financial markets by causing the loss of a Dividend growth has continued to be strong.
The significant amount of equity in banks and other Companys portfolio has benefited from this and the lenders such as hedge funds.
In the short run, the Directors are now proposing a final dividend debt market for buyout finance has also frozen as payment of 9.25 pence payable on 31 October 2007 credit gets re-priced.
Central banks have achieved to Shareholders on the register on 28 September their objective of tightening credit and controlling 2007, making total dividends for the year of 24.25 inflation, but in an inadvertent and messy way whose pence.
This represents an increase of 12.3%, the denouement is still unclear.
However, it is reasonable twenty-second consecutive year in which the to expect that there will be tighter credit conditions dividend has increased.
Dividend growth remains and some slowdown in growth compared to what strong in the current year and the Directors have might otherwise have been achieved.
On the other therefore decided to increase the rate at which hand inflation is under better control with positive interim dividends will be paid to 5.25 pence.
The rate implications for official short-term interest rates.
of the final dividend will be decided when the results for the year are known.
However, the Directors It is difficult to know what these contrary indicators expect total dividends for next year to be at least will mean for portfolio performance.
The most likely equal to those paid for this year.
outcome still seems to be for a small positive return of which income and growth in income will form a VAT on management fees bigger part.
It now seems more likely, following the European Court of Justice ruling in the case brought by Patrick Gifford JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust against 20 September 2007 Chairman HMRC, that we may be able to recover part of the VAT paid on management fees.
Appropriate steps have been taken to protect the Companys position in this respect.
