Chairmans Statement Performance The total return on Net Asset Value was 14.9%, significantly ahead of the return on the benchmark index of 8.7% whilst the share price total return of 10.5% reflected a slight increase over the year in the level of discount at which the shares trade in the stock market.
The Investment Managers Report in the annual report contains an attribution analysis which shows the factors affecting net asset performance.
J F H Trott Key positive influences were significant overweights in Asia Chairman ex Japan and Latin America.
The large underweighting in the United States contributed positively to relative Highlights outperformance, while strong stock selection in the UK th In its 100 year the Trust: enhanced capital returns.
produced a Net Asset Value Total Return of 14.9% versus a Dividends Benchmark Total Return of 8.7%: I am pleased to report that revenue generation from the increased the total proposed dividend payment by 10.5% Companys portfolio has again remained strong during the versus 2006: and year and we have been able to increase the level of the three remained cautious regarding the UK and US stock markets, interim dividends that have been paid to 4.3p 2006: 3.8p.
but sanguine on Asia and Latin America.
Your Board is now recommending a final dividend of 8.1p 2006: 7.6p which, subject to the approval of shareholders at Background the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 16 May 2008 to The economic factors affecting the decisions of our Manager shareholders on the register on 4 April 2008.
If approved, the in 2007 were very different from those existing in 1907 when total dividend for the year will amount to 21.0p, an increase the Trust was founded.
Economies and stock markets are of 10.5% from last year 2006: 19p.
B Ordinary shares now now affected by global events rather than being dominated receive their capitalisation issue of B Ordinary shares at the by domestic conditions as was the case one hundred years same time as each dividend is paid.
Globalisation as witnessed, for example, by increasing approval at the AGM on 16 May 2008, B Ordinary trade between nations, has been a force for good in overall shareholders will be issued with new B Ordinary shares terms but in 2007 we saw evidence of the downside of equivalent in Net Asset Value to the recommended final globalisation as the problem of sub prime loans in the United dividend for the year just ended.
States affected banks throughout the world.
The difficulties spread to a wider range of financial instruments with any VAT on Management Fees Update form of structured product coming under suspicion.
In the During the year under review the Association of Investment UK the problems of Northern Rock highlighted the reluctance Companies AIC announced its success in the case against of banks to lend to each other, which in turn led to sharp HM Revenue and Customs HMRC, which sought to rises in interest rates in the inter-bank market.
A prolonged remove VAT from the payment of investment trust period of very low interest rates and lax lending by banks management fees.
The European Court of Justice has over the last few years has led to a significant increase in confirmed that investment trust management fees should be indebtedness in both public and private sectors in the UK and exempt from VAT in the same way as unit trusts and open US.
Tough times are ahead for these indebted nations and it ended investment companies and HMRC has recently is clear that the balance of economic power is shifting to advised that it does not intend to appeal this decision.
developing nations, such as China, India and Brazil and those Accordingly, VAT is now no longer charged by the Manager fortunate enough to possess the resources of energy and raw on management fees and in due course a rebate will be due materials which the rest of the world needs.
Despite the to the Company in respect of the VAT paid since 2001.
The uncertainty, equity markets performed relatively well but timing and quantum of this repayment together with the most of the improvement took place in the first half of the status of pre-2001 VAT payments are being discussed with year.
Weakness in Sterling also boosted overseas returns in the Manager and are still to be determined.
The Company our portfolio, the first time this has occurred in many years.
will update shareholders in due course.
Under the circumstances, the positive double-digit total return surpassed our expectations.
Centenary Year As I have mentioned above, the Company is in its Centenary Year, having been incorporated originally in December 1907.
We have marked this centenary with the publication of a 4 Murray International Trust PLC booklet tracing the life of the Company since launch and the Circular key events that have affected it.
Accompanying this Annual This year the Directors are proposing to make amendments Report you will find a copy of this publication and further to the Companys Articles of Association to reflect changes copies may be obtained by writing to the registered office of required as a result of the staged implementation of the the Company.
I hope that you find the booklet interesting Companies Act 2006.
Accompanying this Annual Report and and enjoyable.
Accounts there is a circular which incorporates the Notice of Annual General Meeting and the resolutions to be proposed Annual General Meeting AGM at that meeting and at separate Class Meetings of the The AGM has been convened for Tuesday 22 April 2008 at Ordinary and B Ordinary shareholders.
The proposed 12.30 p. m. in the Strathclyde Suite of the Glasgow Royal changes to the Memorandum and Articles are described in Concert Hall and the Board looks forward to meeting greater detail in the circular.
As at previous AGMs, there will be a presentation from the Manager and an opportunity to meet Outlook the Directors and Manager and ask questions.
I would be Since the year end we have seen a sharp downward move in grateful if you would confirm your attendance by completing markets accompanied by increasing volatility.
The increased the notice that accompanies this Annual Report and liquidity of the Trust reflecting the Managers cautious returning it together with an indication of any particular attitude towards markets, particularly the US and the UK in questions that you would like to ask.
the second half of last year, has been of benefit to the Trust, with this liquidity being enhanced by a cash take-over of our Electronic Communications with Shareholders largest holding Atrium.
Corporate profits in the US and UK At the last AGM shareholders authorised the Company to will remain under pressure as the excessive levels of debt in communicate to its shareholders electronically.
The Board is these two countries unwind.
However, there may well come keen to reduce the number of Annual Reports that are a stage when markets begin to discount current problems required to be printed each year and to reduce the associated and start looking towards recovery.
The Trust with its high cost and impact upon the environment.
Accordingly, I would level of liquidity will be in a position to take advantage of urge shareholders to consider whether they require a paper such conditions should they arise.
Meanwhile, we expect copy of the Annual Report and other mailings.
If you do not growth rates in Asia and Latin America to remain positive need paper reports, you may advise the Companys registrars although at somewhat lower levels than those seen recently.
by completing the form that will accompany the Annual We are comfortable to remain well represented in these Report and in conjunction with the registrars, we will arrange areas.
for you to receive an e-mail notification when the Annual Report or other shareholder documents have been published J F H Trott on the Companys website.
Those shareholders who elect for Chairman electronic communications will also be able to vote 6 March 2008 electronically on resolutions to be proposed at future AGMs.
I would like to take this opportunity to reassure you that we will only use electronic communications to communicate to those shareholders who positively elect for such a method of communication.
If you take no further action, you will continue to receive the usual paper copies by post.
Investment Objectives The FSA Listing Rules require the Company to make clear to shareholders the investment policies of the Trust and how it hopes to meet its objective.
We aim to achieve a total return greater than the Trusts benchmark by investing predominantly in equities worldwide.
Within this objective the Manager seeks to increase the Companys revenues to maintain an above average dividend yield.
Further information, including the Companys policies relating to asset allocation, risk diversification and gearing, as well as a description of the investment process adopted by the Manager, is included in this Annual Report and Accounts.
