CHAIRmANS STATEmENT Norman Murray, Chairman Cambay Basin, India Corporate Overview Cairn India cairn energy restructured its operations in its first year of listing on the bombay in 2007 by splitting into two separate and national stock exchanges, cairn h2 2009 businesses.
india has been confirmed as one of the key oil and gas exploration companies in On traCk fOr fIrst COmmerCIal prOduCtIOn In rajasthan the initial public offering ipo of india.
across all assets in india the total cairn india in january established it reserves and resources net to cairn india as an autonomously-run subsidiary is more than 800 million barrels of oil listed on the bombay stock exchange equivalent mmboe.
and the national stock exchange of $827m india allowing the return of $936 million in rajasthan, construction activities to cairn shareholders in april.
the have started on both the upstream and GrOup net Cash remaining group assets have been midstream projects with first commercial placed within a separate exploration-led production from mangala planned to subsidiary called capricorn.
commence in the second half of 2009. net Cash $m this restructuring has enabled each rajasthan is a major resource base 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 entity to focus on its respective strengths and the joint venture jv partners are 2007 and long-term growth potential.
focused on realising the full potential through conventional and enhanced oil 2006 recovery techniques.
the size and scale 2005 of the overall potential value opportunity in the basin continues to grow, offering scope for further significant optimisation.
group net assets $m this would also translate into a significant growth in operating cash 0 500 1000 1500 2000 flows, thereby demonstrating value 2007 for all cairn india stakeholders.
2006 2005 6 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 while cairn india remains focused Outlook THE RESTRUCTURING OF on delivering the rajasthan project, the coming 18 months are a THE GROUP INTO TwO and growing its core upstream business, transformational period for cairn india there are significant opportunities in as it looks to significantly grow its SEPARATE BUSINESSES other areas in the oil and gas value production which will be fundamental has enabled each chain, where it can leverage its existing to the future of the company and its entity to focus on its strengths and skill base.
sector in india offers tremendous value respective strengths creation potential and cairn india has capricorn is planning its first exploration and long-term an active new business unit which is drilling in tunisia at the end of the year currently evaluating a number of these and is actively pursuing the longer-term growth potential.
growth potential of its position in greenland.
Capricorn capricorns aim is to create value for the group is well placed to deliver the shareholders in the future by seeking rajasthan development and to continue to grow an exploration-led, balanced pursuing potential growth opportunities exploration and production business.
the corporate acquisition of two aim in summary, the respective strategies listed companies, plectrum petroleum of the two arms of the cairn business are plc and medoil plc, in 2007, has given now well defined and both are making capricorn a material exploration significant progress in achieving their position offshore tunisia.
in january objectives for growth and creating value 2008, capricorn made a significant for shareholders.
exploration entry into greenland by acquiring interests in six acreage blocks.
norman murray capricorn continues to evaluate new chairman venture opportunities where it believes 11 april 2008 there may be potential to discover hidden value.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 7
