EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT 2007 was a difficult and challenging year for Northern Rock, with the effects of the severe reductions in the levels of global liquidity having a significant impact on the Company, as explained in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 25 to 39 of this report.
This led to Northern Rock requiring liquidity support from the Bank of England.
Subsequently, the Board commenced a strategic review to determine the future of the Company.
I was appointed as Chairman of Northern Rock following the decision by HM Treasury to take the Company into a period of temporary public ownership with effect from 22 February 2008.
In the period since my appointment, a high priority has been the development of a business plan for Northern Rock going forward.
This plan is designed to deliver the Governments stated objectives to protect UK taxpayers, promote financial stability, and protect consumers.
It has the following key priorities: Repayment of the Bank of England loan: Release of the Government guarantee arrangements: Contracting to a smaller, sustainable business: Restructuring the organisation and its operations so that these are aligned to the business objectives.
It is a challenging plan, particularly given the present difficult market conditions, and carries with it both operational and financial risk.
We are nonetheless confident that it can be delivered and, in due course, Northern Rock will be returned to private ownership, as a lower risk, financially viable mortgage and savings bank.
Since 1997 Northern Rock has backed The Northern Rock Foundation, which supports community and charitable causes in the North East of England and Cumbria.
In 2007 the Foundation received 14.8 million, resulting in a total of around 190 million having been donated by Northern Rock since the Foundations inception 10 years ago.
In order to allow this work to continue, Northern Rock has committed to donate at least 15 million per annum to the Foundation from 2008 to 2010.
This last year has undoubtedly been unsettling for our customers and I wish to thank them for the loyalty and patience they have shown.
We recognise that customer support is of the utmost importance to our business and we remain fully committed to high service standards and fair treatment of our customers.
Our employees have maintained the highest standards of professionalism and customer service during 2007 and I pay tribute to the hard work and unwavering loyalty shown by them.
Inevitably, given the restructuring of the Company it will be necessary to reduce staffing levels, but we are working to support all staff as fully as we can during the restructuring period.
We are determined to remain as a major employer in the North East.
Ron Sandler Executive Chairman 29 March 2008 1
