Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview 04 Overview Chairmans statement Overview of 2007 Old Mutual made good progress during 2007, boosting funds under management significantly and integrating the Skandia operations acquired during 2006.
Our adjusted operating earnings per share on an IFRS basis were 16.9p, an increase of 12% over 2006.
On behalf of shareholders, I would like to thank everyone around the Group for their hard work in achieving this result.
Dividend We are recommending a final dividend of 4.55p per share, an increase of 10% over 2006, making a total dividend for the Christopher Collins year of 6.85p per share.
Chairman Board Norman Broadhurst is retiring at the Annual General Meeting in May.
We are extremely grateful to him for his immense contribution, both as Chairman of the Group Audit and Risk Committee since demutualisation in 1999 and as Senior Independent Director.
He will be succeeded as Chairman of the Group Audit and Risk Committee by Richard Pym, who joined the Board as a non-executive director in September 2007, and as Senior Independent Director by Rudi Bogni.
We were also pleased to welcome to the Board during the year Bongani Nqwababa, who is Finance Director of the South African electricity group, Eskom.
Annual General Meeting 2008 Our Annual General Meeting will be held at our offices in London on 8 May 2008.
We have a longer agenda this year.
It includes proposals for changes to our Articles of Association as a result of the UK Companies Act 2006 and for new employee share schemes to replace those adopted in 1999.
I have therefore written to shareholders about the business of the Meeting in the enclosed separate document.
This contains the Notice of AGM and explanatory notes.
Future The relatively benign economic conditions of the past few years have now been replaced by a period of uncertainty.
However, with its geographical diversity and strong market positions, Old Mutual is well placed to weather any storms that may lie ahead.
