Chairmans statement The year to 30 September 2007 was highly successful for Total advances by the Group increased by 30.0% the Group from a trading perspective, with pre-tax profits, to 4,436.4 million 2006: 3,412.6 million, of fully taxed earnings, business volumes and loan assets all which 4,079.3 million were buy-to-let advances growing strongly and the Group continuing to increase its 2006: 3,038.3 million, an increase of 34.3% over the market share within the buy-to-let sector whilst year.
Total loan assets at 30 September 2007 increased maintaining asset quality.
However the deep turmoil in the by 31.0% to 11,034.9 million from 8,426.6 million at credit markets is affecting the normal financing activities 30 September 2006. of the business.
Whilst we expect the credit markets to In view of the possibility of a rights issue in the near recover from the current distressed position during 2008, future, the Board considers that it would be inappropriate the timing and extent of the recovery will have an impact to return any capital to shareholders until a refinancing on our outlook.
In the Funding section we discuss the has been completed: hence the Group will not pay a final position of the credit markets and its impact on our dividend.
The Board will reconsider the Companys business and financing.
distribution policy once the funding position for the future Discussions have taken place with our lending banks for is clarified.
renewal of our 280.0 million corporate facility, but the terms available are not attractive, as discussed later in this statement.
To ensure that the facility is repaid when it falls due in February 2008, thereby protecting the embedded value of the Groups assets for shareholders, we have entered into a standby underwriting agreement with UBS, supported by a group of our institutional shareholders.
This agreement provides us with the ability to launch an underwritten rights issue for up to 280.0 million until 27 February 2008 unless satisfactory alternative funding arrangements have been put in place prior to that time.
The main terms of this agreement are detailed in the Funding section below.
During the year, profit on ordinary activities before taxation increased by 9.9% to 91.0 million from 82.8 million in the previous year.
However, owing to the reduction in the rate of corporation tax to 28% from next year, the Groups deferred tax assets have been written down, resulting in a one-off increase in the charge rate to 31.0% from a particularly low rate of 16.9% last year.
Earnings per share therefore decreased to 56.8p 2006: 61.2p, whilst on a fully taxed basis note 18 earnings per share increased by 11.8% to 57.7p 2006: 51.6p.
4 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The disruption of the capital and banking markets that FUNDING has spread from difficulties in the United States sub-prime Current funding and environment mortgage market has had a significant effect on the The Groups lending is funded largely by the securitisation cost and availability of credit.
Since the summer the of loan assets, accounting for 9.9 billion of the Groups securitisation markets have been effectively closed to new liabilities at 30 September 2007.
New lending is financed issuance and, at the same time, banks have become less by a 2.3 billion warehouse facility provided by a banking willing to renew facilities in the ordinary course.
A small syndicate of which 932.0 million was drawn as at number of securitisation transactions were completed in 30 September 2007 2006: 1,112.0 million.
In addition, early November by UK and European issuers, which may a corporate facility of 280.0 million, also provided by a be the first signs of a return to normality.
We expect the banking syndicate, is used to fund the Groups working credit markets to recover during 2008 but, in the capital requirements together with a long-term bond issue meantime, we have adjusted our business activities of 120.0 million due in 2017.
The Group is not a deposit in response to the current disruption.
This is taker and has no retail depositor base.
discussed fully in the Business Review section of the Our use of securitisation substantially reduces the Groups Chief Executives Review.
liquidity risk by matching the Groups funding maturity Limitations on new funding impact on the value created profile to the profile of the related assets.
Since the from new originations rather than on the value embedded floating rate liabilities are matched with floating rate within the existing portfolio.
This embedded value is assets which are predominantly LIBOR-linked or fixed rate represented by the net assets of the business and also the assets hedged by the use of interest rate swap or cap value of the future income stream match-funded to agreements, the Groups margins are largely protected maturity.
We are concerned that renewal of facilities on against movements in market interest rates, underpinning the proposed terms would jeopardise shareholder value.
the value of the Groups investments in the portfolios and The Board has therefore taken the decision to enter into a the ongoing margin derived from the loan assets.
standby agreement with UBS which gives the Company up The warehouse facility is an asset backed revolving credit to the end of February 2008 to launch a fully underwritten line at a margin for mortgages of 22.5 basis points over rights issue to raise up to 280.0 million.
The revolving period expires on 29 February 2008, ensures that current shareholder value does not dissipate after which date no new drawings may be made to fund and also provides time for the Company to explore all new loan completions, although warehouse assets would potential options for the refinancing of the corporate be funded to maturity at a margin over LIBOR of 67.5 basis facility and new warehouse facilities.
This process may points for mortgages with the characteristics of a public include further discussion with the Companys lending securitisation SPV.
The cost of this facility is not banks, releasing excess credit enhancement held within unattractive in current market conditions and we would our securitisation SPVs, asset sales and alternative expect the assets within it to generate positive margins funding instruments.
The objective will be to create a over their residual lives.
The 280.0 million corporate stable funding platform for the Group which adequately facility falls due for repayment on 27 February 2008.
It is protects net assets and the value of future revenues from currently priced at 90 basis points above LIBOR.
the existing SPV assets for shareholders and to secure We have conducted extensive discussions with our new sources of funding to allow the profitable creation of lending banks for the renewal of the corporate facility income streams from our lending originations to continue.
and extension of the revolving period of the warehouse facility.
Whilst terms for renewal have been offered in principle, they are not attractive for a variety of reasons, including the high cost of such facilities in the current market environment and the short-term nature of the terms available.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 5 Standby underwriting agreement CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Under the standby agreement, the Company has the right During the year the Company bought 1,445,000 shares in to require UBS to underwrite, in full, a rights issue of up to the market at a cost of 8.1 million with the result that by 280.0 million, before 27 February 2008.
The issue or offer 30 September 2007 a total of 6,689,000 shares had been price of any new shares will be determined at the time of repurchased since the buy-back programme was launch of the issue in the light of the then prevailing announced in 2005, at a total cost of 39.5 million.
The obligation of UBS is subject to current conditions and the appropriateness of preserving normal conditions, including all relevant approvals for liquidity, the Board has decided to suspend the buy-back the rights issue, including shareholder approval, programme until further notice.
being obtained: the absence of any material adverse Over the period we have continued to reduce the risk change affecting the Group: and the absence of any force profile of the Groups loan assets through a disciplined majeure event.
restructuring of the portfolio from unsecured towards less BUSINESS REVIEW AND STRATEGY capital-demanding secured lending.
In addition, the more The year ended 30 September 2007 was another strong capital-demanding closed books have continued to year for buy-to-let and the private rented sector, with decline, both from natural run-off and from ongoing demand for rented property running at high levels all year.
Further asset sales may be considered, as The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors confirmed in appropriate, to supplement the organic run-down strategy.
September that landlords were experiencing record rental BOARD CHANGES growth and that surveyors expected further strong growth As we reported last year, Gavin Lickley, a non-executive in the coming months.
Similarly the latest research from director since 2002, retired from the Board in October the Association of Residential Letting Agents ARLA, 2006 and we thank him for his service and commitment also published in September, reported tenant demand during the years of his association with the Group.
outstripping supply in all areas of the rental market.
Both Jonathan Perry, the former Chairman, retired from the organisations noted that tenant demand has been boosted Board in February 2007, after fifteen years of service and by higher borrowing costs and growing uncertainty in I was appointed Chairman at that time.
Jonathan Perry led financial markets as well as high levels of migration from the Group from the early 1990s as it developed its current the European Union.
range of business operations and the Board expresses its The consumer credit market has remained weak during thanks to him for his consistently outstanding the year and, as a consequence, our focus within the performance and contribution.
Consumer Finance division on the quality of lending rather Terry Eccles joined the Board in February 2007 as than on volumes continues to be appropriate.
As before, an independent non-executive director.
Formerly we have restricted our activities to areas with a low Vice-Chairman of JPMorgan Cazenove, Terry brings to the incidence of arrears with an emphasis on secured lending.
Board considerable experience in the financial sector.
6 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The prospects of the Group in the current year will depend STAFF substantially on the reopening of the securitised funding The excellent progress we have made during the year markets to enable the Group to return to normal levels of would not have been achieved without the hard work and writing new business.
If we are unable to secure new dedication of our staff and my fellow directors.
I thank warehouse facilities or alternative sources of access to the them all for their efforts.
securitisation market, we will have to scale back new OUTLOOK lending activities significantly and manage costs For the past twelve years the Group has pursued a accordingly.
Over a prolonged period this would have a strategy of careful growth in core markets which offer negative impact on our franchise.
However, the embedded high quality loan assets, funded portfolio by portfolio to value of our existing portfolio of assets remains strong maturity through the securitisation markets.
This has and we expect it to continue to generate sound profits and produced consistent profit growth over the period.
The Group has achieved record profits in 2007, the We firmly believe that the private rented sector will majority of which have arisen from the Groups buy-to-let continue to see growth for many years to come.
The businesses, a sector with strong credit defensive qualities investment required to enable this expansion will have to and long-term growth prospects, reflecting increasing be financed and therefore the Groups key products will structural demand for rented property in the UK.
The current environment, whilst The present travails of the credit market coinciding with immensely disruptive, is driven by market-wide funding the expiry of our syndicated credit facilities have created concerns and the actions taken by the Group will ensure uncertainties over the Groups future funding in the near that the embedded value in the business is protected term.
Whilst we expect the capital markets to recover whilst providing a base for future profitable lending when during 2008, it is important that we manage our new credit markets recover.
business generation cautiously to ensure that new originations remain profitable, but also, fundamentally, Robert G Dench to protect the embedded value in the current portfolio.
Chairman The strength of profits in 2007 reflects the quality of 22 November 2007 income generated from match-funded assets within existing securitisation vehicles, largely insulated, as they are, from the sharp rise in the cost of credit.
However the high cost and short-term nature of replacement banking facilities are unattractive in the current environment and we believe they would significantly erode shareholder value.
For this reason, we have arranged the standby underwriting agreement referred to above which, if called upon, will enable the repayment of the 280.0 million corporate facility due at the end of February 2008.
This will provide an opportunity to explore alternative funding sources, and to seek new warehousing arrangements for new lending activity in 2008 and beyond.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 7
