Chairmans statement Sir David Clementi Chairman We feel that the prospects for the Group continue to be exciting, and that we have the positioning, the skills and the capabilities to continue to deliver profitable growth for our shareholders.
Full year dividend per share % 5 2007 18.00p 2006 17.14p 8 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Overview 2007 was a highly successful year for Prudential, In September we announced that Philip Broadley, the Groups building on our strong performances in both 2005 and Finance Director, would leave the company in May 2008 after 2006.
Over the last three years we have doubled EEV eight years service.
I would like to thank him for his immense operating profits and almost doubled statutory profits contribution over that time.
His successor, Tidjane Thiam, has by pursuing our international growth ambitions in an outstanding track record, and his broad knowledge and a targeted and disciplined way.
experience of the industry will be of great value to the Group.
This year Prudential will be 160 years old, and the values In 2007 more than three quarters of the Groups new that have guided the organisation throughout its history remain business profits came from Asia and the US, which evident today.
Our founding principles of integrity, security truly differentiates us from other UK and EU life insurers.
and prudence continue to underpin our ambition to promote At the same time, our UK insurance operation is achieving the financial well-being of our customers and their families, and some of the highest returns in its market, and continues to we remain committed to supporting the communities in which be a significant contributor to IFRS profits through its strong we operate.
with-profits fund and shareholder-backed annuity business.
In 2007 over 2,000 of our people gave their time to projects Our growing asset management businesses also provided to improve their local environment, through the Chairmans almost a quarter of statutory profits in 2007.
At the end of the year, employees across the Throughout the year we continued to strengthen the Group were invited to vote for the project which they felt had Groups cash flow and capital position, and the Board has had the greatest impact.
This years winning project involved recommended a full year dividend of 18 pence per share, some 370 employees in Thailand in a reforestation and forest an increase of five per cent on 2006. conservation project supporting 16 communities in the Chiang Perhaps the most significant trend affecting retail Rai region of the country.
financial services today is the transition into retirement of an unprecedented proportion of the working population.
Our founding principles of integrity, security This demographic trend is well documented in the UK and and prudence continue to underpin our the US, but is also happening in many other markets in which ambition to promote the financial well-being we operate.
Individuals worldwide are accepting the need to take charge of their own retirement planning and finances of our customers and their families.
to an extent that has not happened before.
This retirement opportunity plays well to Prudentials Financial capability remains at the heart of our Corporate strengths.
We have trusted brands and the distribution, Responsibility programme and, during the year, we added a investment management, risk management and product new scheme in the US to our existing programmes in the UK innovation skills to meet customers changing needs as they and Asia.
More details about our Corporate Responsibility save for, and draw an income in, retirement.
programme can be found later in this Report.
Over the last three years the Groups senior management, Looking to the future, we feel that the prospects for led by Mark Tucker, has developed a robust and sustainable the Group continue to be exciting, and that we have the operating model, designed to capitalise on these strengths and positioning, the skills and the capabilities to continue to deliver capture a significant share of the retirement opportunity in our profitable growth for our shareholders.
As ever, my thanks go chosen markets.
to all our people around the world for their contribution to our We are also successfully leveraging the knowledge and ongoing success.
experience of our more mature businesses to create solutions for our newer markets more quickly and effectively than would be possible on a standalone basis.
During the year we made a number of Board changes.
In August we announced the appointments of Win Bischoff and Ann Godbehere as non-executive directors.
We are delighted by the addition of their talents to our Board.
