Chairmans statement I am delighted to report our results Results and dividend for the year ended 31 December profit before tax for the year to 31 December 2007 was 52.2 million compared with 44.7 million 2007.
Despite the tensions and in 2006 an increase of 16.8%.
Excluding profits uncertainties associated with the arising from part disposals of our investment in London Stock Exchange Group Plc of 1.3 million difficulties in credit markets, record in 2007 and 3.2 million in 2006, underlying profits results have been achieved.
percentage rate of net organic Reported earnings per share have risen by 14.7% to 87.88p compared with 76.62p in 2006.
Underlying growth of funds under management earnings per share have risen from 71.28p to 85.74p, is the highest that Rathbone an increase of 20.3%.
Investment Management, in the UK It is recommended that the final dividend be increased to 25.0p 2006: 21.5p making a total of 41.0p for the and Jersey, has ever announced.
2007 can be characterised as a year of two parts.
During the first half of the year, bond and equity markets were rm and made progress.
In the second half, the well-publicised difficulties arising from sub-prime mortgage lending in the USA led to very difficult conditions in credit markets and much more volatile equity markets.
July and August saw the FTSE 100 Index fall by over 12%.
Although there has been some overall recovery, at the year end the FTSE 100 Index had risen by only 3.8% and the FTSE APCIMS Balanced Index rose by 2.5%.
As announced on 10 January 2008, funds under management as a whole have risen during 2007 by 7.2% to 13.12 billion 2006: 12.24 billion.
Adjusting for funds acquired and for market movements this represents an underlying organic growth rate of 7.9%.
The value of funds under management within Rathbone Investment Management including Rathbone Investment Management International RIMI rose by 8.2% to 11.23 billion 2006: 10.38 billion and the value of funds under management in Rathbone Unit Trusts rose by 1.6% to 1.89 billion 2006: 1.86 billion.
Within Rathbone Investment Management including RIMI the underlying net organic growth rate for 2007 was 7.8% compared with 7.2% in 2006 and 5.8% in 2005.
These statistics reect our continuing commitment to promoting Rathbones as the investment manager of choice for private investors and trustees, and we believe that it reects a growing awareness of Rathbones.
Particular efforts have been made in promoting our services to professional intermediaries, to charity trustees and in the increasingly important market for self-invested personal pensions.
Your Board considers that this excellent rate of net organic growth reects the value of our policy of combining the roles of investment management and client relationship management.
We believe that it is greatly appreciated by clients and prospective 2 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 clients, and that it is the way of providing the most which your Board has considered attractive.
Since the appropriate investment solution for each individual year end we have, however, committed to take over a client in the light of their circumstances and risk appetite.
small investment management business based in Exeter and we are delighted to be establishing a presence there.
In common with other unit trust managers, Rathbone It will complement our existing ofce in Bristol.
Unit Trust Management experienced difficult trading conditions in the second half of the year and funds under As is stated in the summary statement of our management for the year as a whole grew by 1.6% strategy on pages 13 to 16 of this report, our approach compared with the remarkable 55.0% achieved in 2006. to acquisition opportunities is that they must meet The Chancellor of the Exchequers proposals for changes the criteria of involving professionals who share our to capital gains tax evidently had some impact on sales commitment to discretionary investment management and redemptions in UK equity income funds, and the and that they are earnings enhancing within a credit crunch clearly had an adverse impact on the reasonable timeframe or broaden the range of confidence of retail investors and intermediary advisers.
services available to our clients.
During 2007, profits from our trust and tax activities Sue Desborough grew by 69.6% to 3.9 million 2006: 2.3 million as the benets of the relocation of our ofces in The tragic and untimely death of our finance director Jersey into one building have been felt.
This at the end of November has cast a dark shadow improvement in profitability was achieved despite over Rathbones.
a rather unhelpful background in the provision of Sue joined Rathbones as group financial controller duciary and trust services from offshore centres in 2000 and in October 2004 was appointed finance and the management of this division has expended director.
During her all too brief time with us she had considerable energies in seeking to control costs and made an enormous contribution to Rathbones as a to identify new business opportunities.
friend, as a professional and as a greatly admired and With this in mind we announced the acquisition respected colleague.
She will be sadly missed by us all.
of a small, well-established trust business in Singapore in April 2007 which is now headed by a director of Composition of the Board our Jersey operation.
During the year, two of our non-executive directors, Roy Morris and Jamie Cayzer-Colvin, have retired.
Credit crunch Roy first joined Rathbones 50 years ago and The credit crunch has not had a detrimental impact on was chief executive from 1997 to 2004.
He has Rathbones ability to finance its operations, indeed the made a massive contribution to Rathbones over a consequent impact on credit markets in the second half remarkable career.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin has served of the year has been beneficial for profitability.
as a non-executive director for over five years and we have benefited from his experience of the Our banking licence allows our treasury department financial sector generally and the investment to make use of a range of appropriate instruments management area in particular.
issued by counterparties with high ratings when placing funds in the money markets.
Rathbones, as In December we welcomed David Harrel and a net provider of liquidity to the banking markets, John May to our Board as new non-executive directors.
has been able to take advantage of historically high They both bring with them wide experience short-term interest rate margins, which has had the which I am confident will be of great value to us.
effect of increasing interest income in the last quarter of the year when liquidity in client portfolios rose Outlook to 990 million 2006: 697 million.
Despite the uncertainties created by the problems Rathbones has no reliance on debt markets to being experienced in credit markets and high levels finance its operating activities and does not anticipate of day-to-day volatility in equity markets, Rathbones that this will change.
is well placed to continue to grow our investment management and other services.
In part, this reects Corporate activity the quality of our client relationships and we are confident of the long term future.
For many years Rathbones has sought to supplement organic growth through the acquisition of suitable businesses and the recruitment of established professionals from other organisations.
2007 has seen a Mark Powell great deal of enquiry in this area but it has not proved Chairman possible to make suitable acquisitions at valuations 5 March 2008 3 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007
