4 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chairmans statement MOvING FORWARDS In my Statement last year I referred Continued discipline in the UK with strong growth in Affinity and in MORE TH N to our Company as having a quality Completion of our exit from the U. S. A. set of businesses, led by strong and following receipt of formal U. S. Regulatory effective management.
This made approval by Arrowpoint, the background our Company well able in relative to which was reported in detail in last terms, to face with confidence world years report.
I also spoke of our plans to both improve and grow Our financial and strategic results are profitably our portfolio of businesses commendable in their own right, but even more and enhance our leadership position so when it is considered that they were achieved in the markets in which we choose against a background of greater financial and to operate.
The financial results market turbulence and adverse large losses and we have achieved in 2007 have fully unexpected weather results, particularly in the UK.
The UK floods gave an additional challenge lived up to those expectations, to our management who responded actively and include: and sensitively to the needs of our customers affected by the flood calamities.
Our capability Growth in net written premiums of 6% to meet an emergency is an important measure A strong investment result of performance and a reflection of the social as An improvement in operating results well as the commercial role of insurance A significant increase in post tax profits companies in society.
Growth in shareholders funds and balance sheet strength The common theme that runs through these An improvement in credit rating to a full results is management excellence in the strategic, A grade.
operational and financial performance of our businesses.
We continue to review and improve Our strategies are both general and specific.
We continue to exercise leadership on risk assessment and rate where and when necessary to ensure we achieve sustainable business performance.
Specific strategic actions in our regions have included: Further strengthening of International with the purchase of the Codan minorities and acquisition growth in Canada Strong premium growth in Emerging Markets via organic growth and entry into new markets, particularly China and the Baltics and use of selected JV acquisitions to strengthen our proposition and prospects in Eastern Europe Introduction Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 5 our control environment whether it be in the A further indication of the Boards confidence On a final note, there will be a Resolution at the assessment of risk and reinsurance, underwriting in the future of the business was given by the AGM to change the name of the Company from discipline or the imperative of achieving increase in the final dividend of 10%, giving a Royal & SunAlliance to RSA.
This follows the sustainable profitable growth.
We remain total dividend increase for the 2007 year of 19%.
restructuring process started in 2003 and the conservative in relation to a prudent reserving This follows the 35% increase in the 2006 final subsequent fusion of the Company into a policy and continue to pursue a high quality, low dividend and the 42% increase in the 2007 stronger, cohesive and strategically positioned risk investment strategy.
interim dividend made following a review of business, combined with the development of dividend policy announced last year.
a management ethos based on excellence and Management excellence and a performance achievement.
Whilst a major transformation culture is embedded at all levels in the Company.
In summary therefore, a strong set of results to RSA has been achieved, there still remain There is a bonus pay related plan focused on achieved in difficult and uncertain financial improvements to make, and opportunities to superior performance.
Results which reflect a dedicated and realise and we are fully focused on continuing Development Programme is in its fourth year, effective Management Team and the efforts of to deliver our goal of sustainable profitable from which two-thirds progress to senior all our colleagues and employees, whom the performance.
We expect to progress further management positions.
We continue to both Board thanks on behalf of shareholders.
On in 2008. promote from within the business and recruit outlook we believe, as in previous years, and as senior talent to strengthen our overall expertise set out in the opening sentences of this report, and performance.
we have the opportunity and ability to continue to develop and deliver a relative increase in Our confidence in our performance has led the profit and profitability and to strategically Remuneration Committee and Board to enhance our market positions where we choose John Napier increase the target range of expected ROE to operate.
We believe we also have the Chairman performance for LTIP awards by two percentage experience and control processes to operate points.
We believe this increase is an appropriate effectively in what we expect will continue to be target that compares favourably with our peers.
difficult and demanding market environments.
It equally importantly provides a strong alignment between management reward and shareholder return.
Our capability to meet an emergency is an important measure of performance and a reflection of the social as well as the commercial role of insurance companies in society.
