Chairmans statement RBS enjoyed another successful year in 2007 often substantial write-downs for banks around the world.
Another was to hasten a slowdown in the pace of activity in despite some of the most challenging market some economies, especially in the US.
conditions in the financial and credit markets for some time.
The hard work of our employees We have witnessed the benefits of the Groups long-standing allowed us to deliver a strong financial and focus on credit quality and the diversification of our income streams which have allowed us to deliver record profits despite operational performance as well as successfully the challenging environment.
completing the acquisition of ABN AMRO, the largest banking acquisition ever undertaken.
Board of directors There were no changes to the composition of the Board In 2007 the Groups total income grew by 11% during the year.
This stability and continuity served the Group to 31,115 million 2006 28,002 million and well and is particularly important in the current environment.
operating profit increased by 9% to 10,282 million I would like to thank my colleagues for their support and commitment in 2007.
2006 9,414 million, with adjusted earnings per ordinary share rising 18% to 78.7p.
The Board is The environment recommending a total dividend of 33.2p, 10% I was pleased that others have recognised the seriousness of higher than in 2006. the Groups approach to the environment.
RBS was included in the Carbon Disclosure Projects Climate Disclosure Leadership Acquisition of ABN AMRO Index, while Innovest, a ratings agency, upgraded us to AAA The Group entered 2007 focused on continued organic growth, for our management of social and environmental risks and for which we had created a range of attractive options.
When it opportunities, culminating in RBS being named as one of the emerged that ABN AMRO was seeking alternative options for 100 most sustainable companies globally at the Davos World that companys growth, it was incumbent on us to consider Economic Forum in 2008.
Our commitment to the environment the implications and opportunities raised by that decision.
is also good for our business and in 2007 we remained one of Following very thorough analysis and debate by the Board, and the worlds leading financiers of renewable energy projects.
consultation with shareholders, the Group decided to bid for ABN AMRO as part of a consortium involving our partners 2008 Banco Santander and Fortis.
We have a great deal to do in 2008.
Markets will continue to be demanding and we have a major integration to deliver.
It was, and remains the Boards view that the acquisition of But we also have an unparalleled set of opportunities and their ABN AMRO will deliver good, long-term value enhancement to realisation will allow us to continue on the impressive growth shareholders.
The businesses which the Group has secured trajectory that has characterised RBS over the past decade.
will enable us to accelerate the implementation of our growth strategy and also provide the Group with a significant presence and options for expansion in the worlds most rapidly growing economies.
Sir Tom McKillop Chairman Financial market and economic developments Rising mortgage delinquencies and declining house prices in the US combined to trigger a significant disruption to credit markets in the second half of the year.
One consequence has been a decline in the value of a range of assets and resultant, 08 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chairmans statement RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09
