CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Chairmans Statement The share price, net asset value per share and the benchmark 50% FTSE All-Share and 50% FTSE World Ex UK in sterling terms all rose by 3.9% this year.
Four years ago we initiated an integrated global approach and chose to ignore the make-up of the index when selecting investments.
Over this period the share price has risen by 131.1% and net asset value per share by 126.5%, both outstripping a 77.9% increase in the benchmark.
periods of time shareholders require returns The Portfolio Dividend and Earnings that surpass the benchmark index.
As well as taking a global not a regional Earnings per share were 9.8p compared view, over the past four years the While markets rose overall there were sharp to 8.8p last year, an increase of 11.1%.
A Managers, encouraged by the Board, falls, fuelled by concerns about the future rate final dividend of 5.0p is recommended.
If have invested with the courage of their long of global economic growth, in May and June approved, this will bring the total to 9.5p, term convictions and the number of equity 2006 and also in February 2007.
These an 11.8% increase on last year and higher holdings has fallen from 129 to 75.
As represented corrections to a broadly rising than the in ation rate of 4.8% as measured demonstrated by the four year gures, this trend and were recouped.
I was impressed by the Retail Price Index.
Traditionally the approach has paid off handsomely and it that the Managers maintained their positive UK market has had a higher yield than most will be continued into the future.
stance towards equities during these bouts overseas markets but we do now expect of nervousness, taking the opportunity to good levels of dividend growth from our There has been an emphasis on companies increase some holdings and introduce others overseas holdings.
We have a healthy level with the most convincing long term while share prices were weak.
of revenue reserves which are available to investment case with, notably, the number underpin our intention that dividends will of UK listed investments falling from 33 to I urge you to read the Managers increase above the rate of in ation.
This process of concentration is largely very interesting and thought provoking that a steadily growing dividend stream complete and the total number of equity commentary on the investments which is which exceeds in ation is something that holdings is likely to settle at the current level on pages 8 to 10 of this report.
Scottish Mortgage is now comment on some of the new holdings truly global in its span.
Exposure to a diverse as well as those which have served us Discount, Marketing and Buybacks range of businesses and geographies is well over the year.
As always, there were The Board also views clear and effective achieved though both international and investments which did not work and were domestic investments.
communication with shareholders as sold.
An interview with the Manager can extremely important.
The Managers are be found on Baillie Giffords website at As announced at the interim stage, the making considerable efforts to attract new www.
com under the Scottish composite UK World benchmark will be shareholders.
During the year a range of Mortgage section.
Details of how to replaced, as of 1 April 2007, by the more new Scottish Mortgage materials were receive this report electronically are shown broadly based FTSE All World Index in introduced for the Companys various on page 45. sterling terms.
This re ects both the global savings plans.
Other marketing and nature of the portfolio and the fact that the The rate at which holdings were bought and communications initiatives were also carried place where a company is listed is not sold the portfolio turnover rate has been low, out with intermediary and institutional necessarily where it actually earns its pro ts.
at 34%, despite the sales of the UK listed shareholders.
I was pleased when Baillie The benchmark is a reference point for shares referred to earlier.
We expect the Gifford and Co was awarded the coveted judging performance and emphatically is turnover to stabilise at around 20%, or lower, Investment Week award in 2006 for the not a portfolio construction tool.
The portfolio which represents an average holding period fourth time in five years, a considerable does not set out to reproduce the index, for investments of five years or more.
there will be periods when performance is investment is something which I applaud.
The below as well as above the benchmark.
Nevertheless, it still remains a source trap of making too many market timing calls is That said, I am very conscious that over long of great frustration to the Board that the alluring but very dangerous.
04 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT discount has not narrowed over the period Balance Sheet Outlook and strenuous efforts to stimulate long term The level of borrowings was increased In ation appears to be rising in some demand will continue.
Investment trusts such during the year by a further 50 million.
economies and rates of growth and levels of as Scottish Mortgage, with their low cost As well as the outstanding debenture pro tability overall are, generally, historically base, global reach and first-rate long term stocks valued at market at 213.0m at high.
There is uncertainty about the direction track record, are, in your Boards view, ideal the year end there are also 3 xed term of US interest rates and many expect to see vehicles for long term investors whether they bank loans which run to various dates up growth rates slow this year.
However, the be individuals, advisers or institutions.
These are strong growth trends being experienced the premise as simple: over times of overall denominated in Yen equivalent 59.3m, in China, India, Russia and many other global economic growth equity investment is Euros equivalent 49.6m and Swiss developing countries are likely to be at likely to prove more rewarding than lending Francs equivalent 14.8m.
Full details an early stage.
As these countries move money to banks, companies or governments.
of all borrowings are given on pages 39 towards having market based economies, Funds managed by experienced global and 44. where the deployment of personal and players, such as Baillie Gifford, are likely to corporate capital are the primary drivers, Borrowing to invest in stockmarkets, while perform better than stockmarket indices.
they will have even more in uence in not without risk, is a very useful way of political as well as economic terms.
As ever, Word of mouth is often the best boosting returns.
During the year advantage there will be unexpected squalls and storms recommendation and details of the was taken of weak equity markets to deploy on the way but the Managers continue to Managers various marketing initiatives and additional gearing.
Equity gearing at the identify promising long term opportunities at savings plans are given on the inside back year end stood at a relatively modest 10% company level.
I must emphasise that this does not of shareholders funds while the potential constitute advice or a recommendation as gearing position was 16%.
This level of each investor has to have regard for his her gearing is indicative of the Managers view particular circumstances.
Shares and markets that long term investment opportunities can rise and fall.
If you need advice you should be found under current market conditions.
contact an experienced and reputable Scottish Mortgage has an Aaa Issuer Rating Sir Donald MacKay stockbroker or adviser.
from Moodys, the highest possible rating.
15 May 2007 During the year a total of around 6.6m shares were bought back at a cost of AGM about 34m enhancing net asset value The AGM will be held on Wednesday 27 per share by 0.3%.
The Board is again June in Edinburgh.
Details are given on seeking powers at the AGM to hold any pages 47 and 48.
I hope you will come, shares which are bought back in treasury.
meet the Board and listen to a presentation Subsequent re-issue will only be made at from the Manager.
a premium, ensuring that the interests of shareholders will not be diluted.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 05
