qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 08:22 Page 8 Chairmans Statement Building the strong foundations for growth I am delighted to report that Standard Chartered has delivered another year of record income and profits in 2007, showing the results of our investment programme over the last few years in our key growth markets of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Profit before taxation rose 27 per cent to $4,035 million Income increased 28 per cent to $11,067 million Normalised earnings per share climbed 15.8 per cent to 197.6 cents The Board is recommending an annual dividend of 79.35 cents per share.
These outstanding results are a reminder of Standard Chartereds transformation over the last few years and its enormous potential.
Peter Sands and his team have done a great job in delivering these numbers against a backdrop of turmoil and dislocation in the global financial markets.
These are extraordinary times to be chairman and it has been a very unusual time for the banking and financial services industry: unprecedented losses: huge volatility: the recapitalisation of major banks.
No international securities firm, investment company, insurance company or bank ourselves included has been unscathed.
My reflections are that the industry as a whole has learnt quite a few lessons: firstly, the overwhelming importance of liquidity: Standard Chartered has shown how secondly, the need to price properly for risk: and, thirdly, the danger of over-complexity.
its position in the worlds growth markets I am often asked for my views on what this and the strength of its balance sheet can turbulence will mean for our markets in deliver record results during turbulent times.
Asia, Africa and the Middle East and the degree to which they have decoupled from western markets.
Mervyn Davies, CBE, Chairman 8 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23001 pp008-009 Q7.
qxp:Layout 1 12 3 08 08:22 Page 9 Total shareholder return 350 307 275 242 205 200 148 137 125 50 Jan 03 Jan 04 Jan 05 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Data provided by Thomson Financial Standard Chartered FTSE 100 Median In September, Kai Nargolwala stepped The global economy down from the board after eight years.
What is clear is that the US economy Normalised earnings per share We would like to thank him for his is now facing a period of weaker growth.
significant contribution to the Groups While there is some evidence of decoupling success.
We are also very grateful to 197.6cents across our markets, a US slowdown will Sir CK Chow, who will retire from the impact the rest of the world, dampen global 2006 170.7 cents board this year after 10 years of dedicated growth, slow the pace of trade and will 2005 153.7 cents service as a non-executive director.
take the heat out of commodity markets.
If we look back at the last US slowdown In my last report to you I was cautious in 2001, the export-oriented economies about the outlook, but I did not anticipate Dividend per share of Asia such as Hong Kong, Singapore such extremes as we have seen since then.
and Malaysia were significantly impacted.
In the past six months we have witnessed Although growth rates in Asia will slow this big upheavals in our sector.
79.35cents time, the region now enjoys a degree of 2006 71.04 cents At Standard Chartered, we know that insulation and resilience due to stronger 2005 64.00 cents complacency kills.
We are operating in a domestic demand, economic resurgence period of sustained uncertainty.
We have in China, growing trade links within Asia learnt lessons in recent months and we are and strong policy response from constantly reminded of the importance of governments and authorities.
preserving our liquidity and capital strength.
It is easy to focus on China as the growth Summary engine but we should not underestimate Banking remains a risk-based industry and the diversification of the ASEAN economies, we will remain prudent in our management the catch-up potential of India, huge wealth and pricing of risk.
At the same time, we creation in the Middle East and the are well placed to take advantage of the infrastructure boom across the regions.
opportunities that will undoubtedly arise.
The emergence of sovereign wealth funds in Asia and the Middle East is emblematic Standard Chartered has shown how its of the shift in wealth that is underway.
position in the worlds growth markets and the strength of its balance sheet can So while we forecast GDP growth rates deliver record results during turbulent times.
will soften slightly in these markets in 2008, We are not complacent about the future these economies will remain robust and but are confident that we will deliver their growth will be significantly higher than another strong performance in 2008. those expected in the US and eurozone.
Standard Chartered today is extraordinarily well positioned to seize these new realities thanks to its growing geographical reach, scale and the breadth of its products and Mervyn Davies, CBE capabilities developed in recent years.
Chairman 26 February 2008 We have a loyal and supportive shareholder base and, in my view, an exceptional management.
In August, we welcomed John Peace to the board as deputy chairman and senior independent director and Sunil Bharti Mittal as an independent non-executive director.
We also welcomed Gareth Bullock to the board as group executive director in August.
