Overview SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 06 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report another year of growth at SVG Capital, restructuring.
There have also been negative movements both in terms of the performance of the portfolio and the in valuations, some of which are due to specific company fund management business, SVG Advisers.
performance, like Freescale: others were more heavily influenced by the sharp decline in comparable public market earnings 1 Fully diluted net asset value per share increased by 14.3% multiples, such as Gala Coral and ProSiebenSat.
over the year, with net asset value per share rising to 974.3p including a 71.8p per share unaudited Directors valuation Both investment and realisation activity in the portfolio were for SVG Advisers and fully diluted Shareholders funds robust during the year, albeit weighted towards the first half.
New investments were dominated by Permira IV, which was 35% called and 47% committed at the year end.
We expect the level of future investment and divestment to be slow, Private equity portfolio performance as pricing of new transactions adjusts to reflect economic Performance over the year was driven largely by the significant uncertainty and the lack of liquidity in the debt markets, realisation activity in the first half, as Permira and our other and holding periods to lengthen.
managers took advantage of favourable markets to realise several portfolio companies.
New commitments This strong first half performance has been affected by the During the course of the year, SVG Capital made six new deterioration in public markets since the onset of the credit crisis commitments, totalling 130.3 million.
in August, impacting not only the quoted portfolio, but also the public market comparable earnings multiples used to value Two of the new commitments are to structured private portfolio companies.
Some of this impact has been mitigated equity funds of funds: F60.0 million to SVG Diamond III by the positive influence of foreign exchange movements.
The third commitment is a US$50.0 million commitment to seed a new investment From an operational standpoint, the majority of the portfolio fund, SVG India, which invests in quoted mid-sized Indian companies performed well in the year.
Apart from realisations, companies across a variety of sectors.
there have also been several positive movements in valuations.
Some of these have been prompted by strategic re-focus and increased earnings, such as Jet Aviation and debitel: and others, like TDC or Maxeda, by the sale of non-core assets and Performance over the year was driven largely by the significant realisation activity in the first half, as Permira and our other managers took advantage of favourable markets to realise several portfolio companies.
Nicholas Ferguson Chairman 6 March 2008 1 Including the 7.5p dividend paid in May 2007 SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 07 Market commentary In December, the Company also committed F33.2 million to the equity of two Collateralised Loan Obligation funds, Clearly there has been a change in sentiment in the last six investing in diversified portfolios of loans sponsored by months.
Such changes have different origins and in this case private equity-backed companies.
it has been prompted by the over extension of credit.
Finally, SVG Capital has committed F10.0 million to the Regardless of origin, they have a similar pattern: an expected SVG European Focus Fund, an open-ended investment above trend growth in GDP and corporate profits moves company investing in quoted Continental European to an expected below trend growth and then back again.
companies and managed by SVG Investment Managers.
Private equity has a reasonably established pattern in this cycle.
First, the level of new investments tends to slow markedly as SVG Advisers vendors and buyers cannot agree on price.
This is the pattern we are seeing now, today compounded by the lack of SVG Advisers has continued to make strong progress, growing availability of debt.
Given the normal range of about a year assets and commitments under management by 33% in for this quiet period, we might expect to see some increase 2 the year to F4.4 billion.
Importantly, external income from in private equity activity in the fourth quarter of this year.
investment advisory services increased by 46% to 29.7 million, and profit before tax for the year was 17.6 million, an Second, on valuations, the public markets tend to anticipate increase of 89% on the previous year.
This is an excellent a lower rate of increase in corporate profits.
The result of this business in which we will continue to invest for growth.
is that earnings multiples fall, which in turn impacts portfolio valuations.
SVG Capital values its portfolio in accordance The Company owns 100% of SVG Advisers and at with the IPEVC Guidelines and therefore marks its portfolio 31 December 2007 the Board placed an unaudited Directors to market, using public market comparable earnings multiples valuation on the business of 106.4 million 71.8p per share.
These have now dropped, and As in previous years, the Board will review the value of the accordingly we have seen some valuations decline in the business again in December 2008. underlying portfolio, alongside falls in the value of our quoted More detail on SVG Advisers is contained in the Chief holdings.
However, on this occasion these declines in Executives review.
valuation have been, to a large extent, cushioned by currency movements and by the growth in value of SVG Advisers.
Board Third, historically the public markets have tended to fide-rate private equity fairly early in the cycle and listed private equity The Board worked well together during 2007, and a full funds tend to move from premia to substantial discounts.
review of the Boards activities can be found in the Report This has happened again, and will in turn reverse when of the Directors on page 30. markets start to look through the cycle and sentiment changes once more.
Dividend The Companys investment objective is one of capital growth and it is anticipated that returns for shareholders will derive primarily from capital gains.
During the 12 months, the Company received approximately 17.1 million of income from its investment portfolio.
Accordingly, in order to maintain Investment Trust status, the Board is recommending that the Company should declare a dividend of 6.5p per share.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday 7 May 2008 at 111 Strand, London WC2R 0AG.
As in previous years it will include a presentation on the activities of the Company.
2 Including SVG Capitals commitments to SVG Advisers funds
