2 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Chairmans statement I am pleased to report that Carpetright has had another solid year.
Total sales have increased by 5.4% to 475.9 million and earnings per share have risen by 4.9% to 68.2p.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative and, having opened 105 stores, closed the year with net debt of only 6.9 million.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 30.0p per share.
Together with the interim dividend of 20.0p per share the total dividend for the period will be 50.0p per share, an increase of 2.0%.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2007 3 Throughout the year there have been several Board Changes important developments which will drive future Baroness Wilcox, who has served 10 years on profitability.
These include: the Board as a Non-Executive Director, has now stepped down from the Board.
Judith has been New stores 105 stores were opened during the an excellent Non-Executive Director and her wise year include the Groups 100th store in Europe.
counsel and particular expertise on consumer Following the acquisition of Storey Carpets Ltd issues has been of great benefit to us over Storeys on 1 May 2007, the Group is now many years.
trading from over 650 stores across Europe.
I would like to welcome Geoff Brady to New ranges the Group introduced several the Board as a new Non-Executive Director.
new ranges of carpets with a particular focus on Geoff brings with him a wealth of retail experience higher quality wool twists which are selling well.
and I look forward to working with him.
Additionally, a wider range of rugs was introduced in the UK with new display areas being People introduced in over 300 stores.
This has enabled I thank all our staff for their continued commitment, the UK business to double rug sales with further contribution and loyalty throughout the year and potential in the year ahead.
extend a warm welcome to all the staff at Storeys.
The role of all our staff, who consistently provide New cutting and distribution centre we excellent customer service, remains paramount announced in March 2007 that we had signed and it is their efforts that really make the difference.
an agreement to lease a new distribution centre in Pureet, Essex.
All our cutting, distribution and Prospects UK central ofce functions will be relocated into I am now in my 50th year of selling carpets this building allowing us to close the four sites and remain as enthusiastic as ever.
We continue we currently use.
I am confident that our This new distribution centre will enable strategy of providing a comprehensive offer us to increase our capacity, with minimal extra with the widest product range, best prices and cost, and improve delivery times to customers.
excellent customer service will support It is an important element in Carpetrights future future growth.
Europe expansion we have seen strong Lord Harris of Peckham sales and profit growth in Belgium and Chairman and Chief Executive The Netherlands and now have six stores trading in Poland.
The Rest of Europe now represents nearly 7% of our underlying operating profit.
I am confident that we will continue to achieve good growth across Europe.
Storeys on 1 May 2007 we acquired Storeys for an initial consideration of 18.5 million.
Storeys is based in the north-east and trades from 30 stores.
It has been established for over 80 years and has annual sales of approximately 30 million.
John Kitching has become their Chief Executive and we are looking forward to working with their management team to implement appropriate changes to simplify their processes, improve their customer offer and deliver growth in the operating margin.
