Chairmans statement The total return on the backs in order to contain the level of the discount.
net assets of Temple With the assistance of its broker, the Manager Bar during 2007 was continues to communicate closely with our largest -4.3%, which compares shareholders and investment intermediaries.
The with a total return for Manager also seeks to keep our smaller investors the FTSE All-Share fully informed with the production of monthly Index of 5.3%.
This is a factsheets and detailed manager commentaries.
disappointing outcome, These can be found on the Companys website, due mainly to the fund www.
managers reluctance to invest in the mining Investment Policies International Investment sector, the It is a new requirement of the UK Listing Authoritys underperformance of a Listing Rules that companies should provide more number of retailers and the poor performance of the details on the investment policies and strategies small part of the portfolio invested in smaller that are put in place to facilitate achievement of companies.
Set out on page In contrast a very satisfactory performance was 17, therefore, is a summary of the investment achieved in relation to income from the portfolio and policies established by the Board to guide the the Board is recommending a final dividend of 21.07p, investment manager in constructing the portfolio of to produce a total increase for the year of 6.0%.
dividend will be payable on 31 March 2008 to The only material development from the policies shareholders on the register at 14 March 2008.
This is that have been in place for some years is the the 24th consecutive year in which the dividend has flexibility now afforded to the investment manager been increased.
The revenue reserve, which, after to invest up to 10% of the portfolio in companies adjusting for the proposed final dividend for 2007, whose shares are listed on the stock exchanges of amounts to 15.6m, should provide shareholders with developed countries other than the UK.
The additional comfort regarding the security of the rationale for this change is a recognition that, dividend.
increasingly, the jurisdiction in which a company Post-tax earnings increased by 9.9%.
The proposed lists its shares bears no relation to the location of its dividend was more than covered by net earnings business activities.
I should emphasise that it is not generated on the portfolio during the year.
expected that this additional flexibility will be significantly utilised in the immediate future.
Discount to Net Asset Value In recent years the Temple Bar share price has VAT traded reasonably closely to its net asset value.
In June 2007 the European Court of Justice ruled However, the price of Temple Bar shares ended the that investment trust management fees should be year at a 12.5% discount to their underlying asset exempt from VAT.
This decision has now been value adjusted for the market value of the accepted in principle by HM Revenue & Customs, Companys debt.
It is perhaps more relevant that the although some procedural matters remain to be average discount at which the shares traded during resolved.
The result is that future management fees the year rose from 3.5% to 6.6%.
While this will not be subject to VAT.
The Company has taken undoubtedly reflects the underlying performance of appropriate steps to reclaim the relevant VAT that the assets, discounts widened in 2007 both for the has been paid on past management fees, although UK Income & Growth sector and for investment the actual amount remains uncertain.
The Board monitors the discount we have not recognised any asset in the financial position on a regular basis and, in conjunction with statements but have provided additional information its brokers, is prepared to undertake share buy in note 19 to the financial statements.
Temple Bar Investment Trust 7 Chairmans statement continued Board Annual General Meeting In September 2007 Gary Allen retired from the The annual general meeting will be held at Board for health considerations.
He had been a 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP on Monday valued director since his appointment in 2001, 31 March 2008 at 11.00 a. m. In addition to the bringing much knowledge and experience to formal business of the meeting our portfolio board deliberations.
I am particularly grateful for manager, Alastair Mundy, will provide a review of his services as Chairman of the audit committee the past year and comment on the outlook.
and as Senior Independent Director.
Richard There will also be an opportunity for Jewson has succeeded him in both of these roles.
shareholders to meet informally with the directors at the conclusion of the AGM.
I look We wish Gary a speedy recovery from his illness.
forward to welcoming as many of you as possible.
In due course the Board will seek to appoint an Shareholders who are unable to attend the additional director.
meeting are encouraged to use their proxy votes.
Outlook John Reeve The dislocation in banking markets, although 12 February 2008 highly publicised, had a limited effect on stock markets in 2007.
It clearly impacted on the valuation of bank shares and, as our manager highlights in his report, in the UK market precipitated investor flight from smaller companies.
However, the FTSE 100 ended the year just 6.8% from its all-time peak.
This rather paradoxical outcome reflects investors belief that the developing economies can continue to grow strongly almost regardless of the outcome for the more mature economies.
This theme of emerging market decoupling is likely to be severely tested during 2008 and may generate significant market volatility.
Our manager, as always, favours investment in the areas of the market which are more out of favour in the belief they will recover strongly.
His contrarian beliefs have been challenged by the experiences of 2007 but he remains confident in the underlying integrity of value investing.
