Highlights and Strategy Business Review Governance Financial Statements 3 Chairmans Statement KEY ACHIEVEMENTS The Group has experienced a year of mixed the Onetel integration demonstrates that there is the fortunes.
The Distribution business has once again necessary quality of operational expertise to support exceeded our expectations, continuing to prosper in the strategic vision.
Execution will become an ever an attractive market and taking share from our more important theme over the next 12 months as competitors.
Our fixed line telecoms business has we bed down the AOL business and make further 366 achieved real scale, with the strong organic growth significant enhancements to the quality of our new stores opened stimulated by our Free Broadband proposition broadband service.
augmented by the acquisition of the UK customer However, it is not in the Groups nature to stand still base of AOL.
However, the unprecedented demand for long, and we were very pleased to agree a major created by our broadband offer led to unacceptable strategic partnership shortly before our year end with 17.3% levels of customer service.
Best Buy Co, Inc. the largest consumer electronics 52 week growth in As an organisation that has always sought to put the retailer in the US.
After a successful trial in New York, subscription connections customer at the centre of all of our business decisions, we are rolling out a mobile retail joint venture to we were very disappointed to have let our customers 150-200 stores in the US in the next 18 months.
In response to the problems, we In addition, we are bringing Best Buys Geek Squad have dedicated significant additional resource in our home technology customer service operation to the 31.0% call centres and re-engineered our provisioning and UK.
The business case for both of these projects is growth in Group revenue customer management processes to create a robust compelling, and we believe the partnership will create and scaleable platform.
It is our aspiration to significant value over the coming years.
differentiate our broadband proposition not only on value but also on service, and this will be one of the As the business grows up, Groups key goals for the coming year.
we will increasingly need to Group revenue for the period was 3,991.5m, a rise balance its natural dynamism of 31.0% on last years gure of 3,046.4m.
Headline pre-tax profit fell by 9.5% from 136.1m to 123.1m, with a tight focus on reecting, as expected, start-up losses of 80.5m in operational efficiency the launch of Free Broadband and Virgin Mobile in France, and a net gain on xed asset disposals of This year we have asked more of our people than ever 3.7m.
Earnings per share on the same basis before, and they have responded to the challenges decreased by 4.5% from 12.38p to 11.82p.
Statutory we have faced with great commitment, dedication and profit before tax, after the amortisation of acquisition patience.
I would like to extend the Boards thanks intangibles, and reorganisation costs in the prior year, and gratitude to everyone in the Group for their fell by 15.6% from 81.0m to 68.4m, while statutory continued efforts.
We all share the same earnings per share decreased by 6.0% from 7.99p to dissatisfaction in falling well short of our usual high 7.51p.
Cash generated from operations increased by standards of customer service and are united in our 30.5% from 196.4m to 256.3m, reecting strong determination to deliver a very positive and consistent growth in the Groups underlying business.
The Board customer experience in the years ahead.
is proposing a final dividend of 2.25p, taking the total for the year to 3.25p.
The increase of 30% on last years distribution reects the Boards confidence that the current level of investment will generate significant long-term value.
John Gildersleeve, As the business grows up, we will increasingly need to Chairman balance its natural dynamism and creativity with a tight focus on operational efficiency and business processes.
Over the past 18 months, with the acquisition of Onetel and the AOL base, and the launch of Free Broadband, the entrepreneurial spirit of the business has been self-evident.
