Chairmans Statement Peter Salsbury BSc Chairman 7 June 2007 Introduction The Trust has had another good year against the background of continued growth in real estate values.
The net asset value per share increased by almost 30% and outpaced the return on our Benchmark index for the ninth successive year.
The share price growth, at 22%, underperformed the NAV, reflecting a widening of the discount to net asset value at which the Trusts shares trade, but this has allowed the Trust to resume share buybacks.
Our revenue has grown faster than we anticipated and the Board is able to recommend a 20.6% increase in the full year dividend.
Just after the year end we announced that the Board and its advisors are considering proposals, which, if approved by shareholders and implemented, would result in the creation of a new class of shares in the Trust, concentrated on investment in smaller quoted property companies throughout Europe.
The proposals envisage that shareholders will be offered an opportunity to switch a portion of their existing shareholdings into the new class, but that if they wish to take no action, their existing shareholdings and their interest in the Trusts present asset base will remain effectively unchanged.
It is expected that the investigations into these proposals will be completed by June 2007, at which point the Board will report further to shareholders explaining what is proposed in detail.
Market Background European property markets have continued to see very high levels of investor demand over the past twelve months.
As a result of this buying pressure initial yields fell again and underlying commercial property values generally rose by an average of 10% to 15%, with rental value growth again making only a very small contribution to capital returns.
Property shares did even better thanks to corporate gearing and showed average appreciation of just under 25%.
On the Continent property shares continue to trade at significant premiums to asset value, while in TR Property Investment Trust 5 Chairmans Statement continued Ten Year Performance price only 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar 9 7 Mar 9 8 Mar 9 9 Mar 00 Mar 01 Mar 02 Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 0 7 Index of TR Property net asset value and share price compared with a composite benchmark index comprising the FTSE Real Estate Index for the period 31 March 1997 to 30 September 2001 and the S&P Citigroup European Property Index for the period 1 October 2001 to 31 March 2007 Composite Ben c hmark Ind e x TR P roperty Share P ric e TR P roperty Net Asset V alu e the UK premiums have fallen and, despite the arrival of the EPRA Index is much more widely used in our specialist area, UK REIT regime, the share prices of several of the largest is calculated in real time, offers high quality statistical property companies have recently moved to 10% discounts information and is available on the main financial information to break-up asset value.
Shareholders can find more information on the EPRA website.
Performance and Benchmark Over the twelve months ended on 31 March 2007, the Trusts Revenue asset value per share rose by 29.7% to 290.78p and the The revenue earnings per share for the year are 4.09p per share price increased by 22.4% to 256.50p.
These increases share, an increase of 18.9% over the 3.44p per share compare with a rise of 24.5% in our Benchmark index over reported last year.
This growth is markedly higher than our the same period.
The annual total returns, which include the managers forecast at the interim stage as a result of higher value of the net dividends paid during the period, were 31.8% than anticipated dividend receipts in the last quarter of our for the net asset value, 24.4% for the share price and 27.5% financial year.
Our total income, including the service charges for the Benchmark.
Property equities outperformed general we made to our tenants, increased by 13.3% to 26.2m equity markets over the year, in which the total return on the while expenses, including interest, property outgoings and FTSE All-Share Index was 11.4% and the total return from management fees, rose by 9.6%.
That left pre-tax revenue the DJ STOXX 600 in Euros was 15.1%.
The extent of the 15.8% higher at 16.1m.
The tax charge was lower, in outperformance has resulted in our managers earning a percentage terms, than last year, and revenue earnings also performance fee of 0.6% of adjusted shareholders funds.
Our managers are advising the Board that, subject to Change in Benchmark Supplier unforeseen circumstances, they expect the Trusts revenue The Board decided and announced in March that, from the per share to increase by around 20% to 30% in the current start of April 2007, the fund managers performance will be financial year.
Most of our largest UK share holdings are in measured against the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Europe Property companies that have elected for REIT status.
As a result it is Index in Sterling in place of the S&P Citigroup European expected that their earnings and dividend payout ratios will Property Index in Sterling.
The two Benchmarks are almost see sharp one-off increases to the benefit of our revenue, identical in content and long term performance, but the 6 TR Property Investment Trust Chairmans Statement continued assuming our portfolio remains in its current shape.
Actually uncertainty over the trend in UK inflation and interest rates, pinning down the quantum and timing of these higher the Trusts gearing on balance sheet level is expected to be dividends is proving difficult as some property company less than15% over the coming six months.
managements are still wrestling with the complexity of the The Boards long term policy has been not to hedge our new REIT dividend taxation system and are unwilling to give foreign currency exposure and this continues to apply to all guidance on future dividend levels.
A very small number of our shareholdings are now denominated in non-European Dividend currencies and these exposures are financed with The Board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend borrowings in the relevant currency.
Over the year the Pound of 2.40p per share for the financial year ended 31 March rose against the Euro by 2.7% decreasing the value of the 2007, an increase of 26.3% over the final dividend of 1.90p Trusts Continental assets by some 10m, equivalent to 3.0p per share paid last year.
Together with the interim dividend per share.
of 1.70p per share already paid, this produces a total payment of 4.10p per share for the year, a 20.6% increase Board Appointments and Remuneration over the total of 3.40p per share paid last year.
The dividend Jeremy Newsum has decided to retire from the Board at the marginally exceeds stated earnings per ordinary share, AGM after five years, in order to concentrate on other business however, due to the impact of recent share buybacks the commitments.
On behalf of the shareholders I would like to total dividend cost is covered.
thank him for his contribution to the success of the Trust.
Discount and Share Repurchases We are pleased to announce the appointment of Hugh The average discount to net asset value over the year was Seaborn FRICS to the Board with effect from 24 July.
Hugh 8.84% virtually the same as the 8.82% figure for the year is the CEO of the Portman Estate, Deputy Chairman of the to end March 2006.
Since December 2006, however, the Westminster Property Owners Association and a member of discount has widened markedly, mirroring the movement in the Council and Audit Committee of the Duchy of Lancaster.
discounts for many of the largest UK property companies, so that the Trusts average discount over the last three months A review of Board remuneration was carried out by of the financial year was 10.9% and the year end discount of Stephenson and Co. alongside the Board evaluation process.
11.5% compared with a figure of 6.1% at end March 2006.
Its conclusion was that fees should be raised to reflect the This has had two impacts.
Firstly the asset value growth in increased demands of the role of all directors, and the roles the financial year exceeded the share price growth and, of Chairman and Audit Committee Chair in particular.
In secondly, it has enabled the Trust to resume its share addition, the scale of the Trust and external trends were buyback programme.
In February and March 2007 a total of taken into account.
As a result, the following fees will apply 9.25 million shares, 2.7% of the outstanding capital, were from 1 June 2007 previous rates in parentheses : bought back for cancellation at a total cost of 23.07m and an average cost of 249.4p per share.
Sales of assets were Chairman 65,000 35,000 made to cover these repurchases which garnered a surplus Audit Committee Chair 30,000 25,000 to the remaining shareholders funds of 3.2m or just under 1p per share.
Buybacks also help to control the size of the Directors 25,000 21,000 Trust and this should benefit future relative performance.
Our investment universe has grown during the year as a result of Management Personnel flotations of new property companies, but it remains a During the year we welcomed Karim Pabani to the relatively small and often illiquid universe, and the Trusts total management team.
A qualified surveyor, he is working on our assets, which now exceed the 1 billion level, still represent property holdings and his arrival has given James Wilkinson roughly 1% of the capitalisation of the Benchmark.
Buybacks more time to cover our equity investments, particularly those help modestly to make the Trust a little more manoeuvrable.
in Central and Eastern Europe.
If the creation of the new share class is approved and implemented we shall be Debt, Gearing and Currencies seeking further appointments to assist in the research and Our debt fell over the year from 98m to 91m and, as net investment in the smaller companies equity area.
Meanwhile assets rose from 771m to 973m, balance sheet gearing Henderson Secretarial Services Limited retired as Company declined from 12% to 9%.
Given the current level of Secretary at the end of March 2007, and Capita Company TR Property Investment Trust 7 Chairmans Statement continued Secretarial Services Limited was appointed as the Company and the point where rising borrowing costs meet falling yields Secretary on 1 April 2007.
In January 2007, Cenkos is drawing closer.
Securities were appointed as brokers and investment Right across Europe vacancy rates are falling and, as yet, advisors to the Trust in place of UBS.
there is relatively little speculative development activity of the type that has induced most previous property bear markets Awards of the last fifty years.
Therefore, in the sense of tenant During the last twelve months the Trust has received awards demand and supply, this property cycle may still be in its early from Investment Trust magazine as the Best Large Trust of days.
Yield compression, which has dominated value growth 2006 and Bloomberg Money as the Best Specialist Trust of over the past four years, is a one-off event and we must the year.
It is of particular pleasure that the Trust also won, for adjust our ambitions to more modest levels of capital growth the third year in a row, the award as Most Consistent in years to come.
Under these circumstances we feel the Investment Trust of the Year from What Investment magazine.
main balance of the portfolio is weighted appropriately.
This award is based on five year track records and recognises that consistency has been a major feature of our Meanwhile I hope to be able to circulate to shareholders management teams efforts over the last decade.
more details about the proposed new share class in June when we post the Annual Report.
The plan is to hold an Outlook EGM to approve any proposals alongside the AGM on In the UK, since the start of 2007, rising base rates and bond 24 July, an event to which all shareholders are, as usual, yields have taken the edge off investor demand, though good most welcome.
quality property is still attracting multiple offers.
However the pace of value growth for commercial property appears to have reduced sharply from around 1% per month seen in 2005 and 2006 to a current level of about 0.2% to 0.4% per Peter Salsbury month leaving average initial property yields resting at Chairman around the 4.75% level.
We may expect that for the time being, capital growth will now be more closely linked to rental value changes than it has been for some years and this is not unhealthy.
UK commercial rental value growth itself is currently averaging about 3.8% per annum, more in offices and less in retail.
Meanwhile, residential property values show no sign of their anticipated retreat and rising housing land values are increasingly underpinning commercial property pricing in London and the South East.
UK property shares have had a disappointing start to 2007 and this has held back the Trusts performance.
The arrival of UK REITs was generally expected to bolster the ratings of the major companies relative to their asset values in fact, so far, it has done the reverse.
The more sober outlook for UK property value growth is a reason, but the new UK REITs appear to be making little effort to adapt their businesses and strategies to make best use of their new tax status.
Global REIT investors give investment priority to companies that are focused and which offer maximum dividend payout ratios.
The largest UK companies appear to offer neither: rather they give the appearance of guests who have arrived at a black-tie dinner wearing lounge suits.
Outside the UK, European property shares are still seeing strong underlying asset value growth as yields continue to fall, but this is generally well reflected in the share price ratings which are at average premiums of close to 30%.
European base rates are rising 8 TR Property Investment Trust
