Chairmans Statement However beautiful the strategy, you should occasionally look at the results Sir Winston Churchill Harry Henderson Opening Remarks The devil does take the hindmost but oh to have There is nothing worse than a smart Alec or indeed had more of what went up and less of that which a Board that claims it always gets everything right.
performed poorly: but that said, a net asset value However, in last years Business Review, looking to total return of 7.1% was a reasonable outcome.
2007, we highlighted the problem of excess credit, the high valuation of smaller companies and a Shareholder Returns and Performance general appetite for risk with the likelihood of more The share price rose over the year by 5.3% which, volatile markets.
These themes are todays headlines combined with the dividends paid during the year, for commentators looking back over the last twelve gives shareholders a 2007 share price total return of months.
Which means that, over the last five years, Witan shareholders have experienced an annualised Despite having correctly identied some of the return of 15.8%, some 12.5% more per annum than current problems and despite a reasonable increase the rate of ination.
Witan, with its global equity from major Western equity markets in 2007, I portfolio, has done its job.
suspect we all feel somewhat battered.
For example, the global financial sector fell by more than 20% In last years report I stated that it was important to due to banks writing off more than US$100 billion look at returns over the long term.
We will look at related to losses in credit markets.
Furthermore, any our hundred year story next year but sufce to say security relating to the housing market or to that, over an economic cycle, Witan has delivered consumer spending patterns fell in value.
In the US every sector in the S&P 500 Index rose by For the fifth consecutive year Witans net asset value more than the market, excluding the Financials and per share NAV up 5.5% has risen by more than Consumer Discretionary sectors, with big the benchmark up 5.3%, calculated on a capital companies outperforming smaller ones.
Losses have change only basis.
There is more information on therefore been specic and explicable, confined to manager performance on page 14 in the Business areas that had been subject to irresponsible leverage Review section but in general the key points are that or lending.
our share buy-back programme, gearing and overweight positions in Asia outside of Japan and Emerging markets successfully decoupled over the Europe have been positive, while an overweight year, with China and India heading the charge.
position in Japan and underperformance from some Unlike many investors we did not give up on Japan, of our managers have been negative contributors.
As we all know oil, gold and agricultural commodities all leapt in price while the Strategic Review US dollar fell in value against almost all major Your Board felt that as we approached the third currencies.
anniversary of the move to multi-manager it was 4 the right time to undertake a strategic review.
The successful to date, and to increase its exposure to process reinforced the benets of multi-manager in more active managers.
In the industry jargon we have that we were able to change that which we felt was reduced beta in favour of alpha.
This is a deliberate not working for us without a wholesale change in move by the Board, which believes that returns from the investment arrangements of your Company.
markets themselves are likely to be lower and more volatile in the future, thereby increasing the Your Board is persuaded by the opportunity presented attractiveness of more active management.
by a global investment approach: comparing companies and their stock market valuations across Total Expense Ratio borders rather than within a single country, at least The average global unit trust has a total expense for larger more international companies, seems to be ratio of 1.63%, which is over three times more sensible.
The analysis supporting this proposition lay expensive than Witans annual ratio of 0.53%.
This behind our decision to increase the proportion means that these alternatives have to continually managed in this manner by appointing Thomas outperform Witan by over 1%, each and every year, White to our third global equities mandate, to just to keep pace.
Your Board believes that it is good manage 10% of the total portfolio.
practice to keep costs to a minimum without compromising the effectiveness of Witans business The second major change resulting from the review scope and investment engine.
was to replace the underperforming APS, our Asia Pacic manager, with a combination of Comgest, to VAT on Management Fees manage the region excluding Japan and Australasia, As a result of the outcome of various court cases and Orbis, for Australasia by itself.
that have taken place over the last twelve months, Witan will be able to reclaim some of the VAT it has Unsurprisingly the benchmark and its importance to paid since 1990.
Those monies which the Board you, our shareholders, and to the Board was a source believe Witan is virtually certain to be able to of considerable debate over the strategic review.
On reclaim have been included in these accounts see page 8 we cover this topic in detail and the changes note 24 on page 55. we have made to our benchmark.
At the very least it must not drive our investment approach but it must Dividend allow you, our shareholders, to understand better Your Board has declared a second interim dividend what you might expect from your investment and of 5.8 pence per ordinary share, to make a total for us, the Board, to judge how the Company is distribution for the year of 9.9 pence 2006: 9.2 doing.
The change in the benchmark, reducing the pence.
This represents an increase of 7.6%, which proportion represented by the UK, was driven by our is in line with our stated policy of paying an annual wish to pursue the best global opportunities and to dividend at least in line with ination indicators.
diversify risk away from the UK.
Share Buy-Backs Another impact of these changes is to reduce Witans During 2007 your Company repurchased 37.3 exposure to enhanced indexed techniques of fund million shares for cancellation.
This amounted to management, which have proved to have been very 14.3% of the Trusts capital at the start of the year.
5 Chairmans Statement continued In turn these buy-backs enhanced Witans NAV by too late to avoid some sort of slowdown: around 1.4%.
Your Board believes that buying in nevertheless, it looks as if it may be not too severe.
its own shares at a discount is clearly helpful to In the past a downturn in the US has led to investors.
This process is managed in accordance weakness across the globe and, as the US with Witans commitment to buy back shares with continues to be the largest economy, a serious a view to keeping the discount at 10% or below in slowdown will also be felt elsewhere.
the Asian economies are now in a far better position to cope with a US slowdown.
So, given Witan Investment Services WIS the favourable long term growth perspective for Witans subsidiary company, WIS, is a FSA these emerging economies, corrections in their registered entity responsible for the marketing of equity markets should provide long term buying the Witan brand and the promotion of its saving opportunities.
WIS also provides similar services to Witan Pacic Investment Trust plc and The question concerning the length of the credit acts as Executive Manager for that Trust.
WISs crisis is perhaps the most difficult, as we are corporate aim is to create demand for Witan shares somewhat in uncharted waters, but our best guess is and to do so profitably.
The company was true to that the worst should be behind us by some time in this aim during 2007 and it provided a healthy the second half of the year.
revenue stream which mitigated costs normally incurred by its parent.
Your Board intends to In summary, we feel there will be a relatively mild maximise WISs potential as a contributor to US recession which will have less of an impact on Witans overall return through the provision of new the emerging economies of the world than in the products and services, as appropriate.
The credit crisis has some more bad news to such activities must always present a tangible throw at us but we hope the end is not too far benefit for Witans shareholders.
Equity markets are likely to be more volatile but, if we are right about the depth of the US Outlook recession, this will present Witan with good There are a number of questions that need to be money-making opportunities, given the current answered as one addresses the economic outlook attractiveness of corporate valuations.
Firstly, will the US be able to avoid a recession?
Secondly, how well will the other AGM economies be able to cope if the US goes into Our AGM will be held at Merchant Taylors Hall on recession?
Thirdly, if the US economy does have a Monday 28 April 2008 at 2.30 pm.
Formal notice of recession, how deep will it be?
Lastly, how long the meeting is set out on pages 56 to 60 and further will the credit crisis be an issue?
details are given on the enclosed invitation card.
With my fellow directors, I look forward to the It was a year ago that the former Fed chairman, Alan opportunity to meet you then for what will actually Greenspan, thought that the risk of a US recession be the Companys 100th AGM.
I am afraid that it is now odds-on favourite but, as a result, further rate cuts have been made and a scal stimulus to the economy has taken Harry Henderson place.
This will obviously help but is likely to come 6 March 2008 6
