Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chairmans Securing shareholder value Statement Centrica delivered very strong financial results during another challenging year for UK energy retailers.
Performance review British Gas delivered strong financial returns in a year when it also Centrica delivered very strong financial results during another reversed the decline in the size of its customer base.
This was challenging year for UK energy retailers.
achieved not only through lower commodity costs in the first half but also through lower pricing, the continued removal of excess New pipelines from Norway and the Netherlands, which were costs, the launch of more innovative propositions and a dedication underpinned by long-term gas contracts with British Gas, began to improving customer service.
During the year Centrica Energy to bring additional gas to the UK and helped to bring down wholesale completed a gas acquisition in the North Sea and acquired gas prices at the start of the year.
This allowed us to show leadership additional gas exploration acreage with strong future potential.
in the market by passing reductions in the wholesale price on We continue to look for opportunities to acquire more substantial to our customers by reducing our retail prices in March and April.
Unfortunately the spectre of high wholesale energy prices appeared again in the second half of the year as global oil prices reached Our growth businesses performed very strongly in 2007.
British record highs and this has continued into the start of 2008.
As a Gas Business and British Gas Services delivered record results, result it was necessary for us to raise customer tariffs in January.
underpinned by ongoing growth in customer numbers.
In North America, Direct Energy also delivered record profits against The management team worked diligently through 2007 to minimise the backdrop of a weakening housing market, early signs of an the impact of rising wholesale energy prices, making substantial economic downturn in the United States and adverse exchange inroads into the operating cost base of British Gas and extracting rate movements.
It was also another year of record profits in efficiencies where possible.
At the same time we must continue Centrica Storage.
In Europe however, while the Commission to invest in high quality energy assets to serve our UK and remains supportive of real network unbundling, meaningful international customers and this reinvestment in our business can progress on market deregulation was limited.
only be funded through the consistent delivery of reasonable and sustainable profits.
Dividend The Board is proposing a final dividend of 9.65 pence 2006: In February 2007 Sam Laidlaw clearly set out four priorities for 8.0 pence for payment in June 2008 bringing our full-year Centrica and I believe that management has made some real dividend to13.0 pence 2006: 11.15 pence.
This represents progress against these objectives.
Sam reports on this progress a17% year-on-year increase, in line with our policy and in detail in his review of the year.
commitment to sustained real growth in the ordinary dividend.
07 05 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chairmans Securing shareholder value Statement continued Wholesale energy prices remain extremely volatile and the high gas price at the start of 2008 has squeezed retail supply margins in the UK.
Board changes We will, however, continue to take all possible actions Early in the year we changed the structure of our executive to minimise the impact to our customers whilst delivering the level management team, with Phil Bentley assuming the role of of profitability required to underpin the investments necessary to Managing Director of British Gas, Jake Ulrich adding Europe to secure additional high quality upstream assets.
his responsibilities as Managing Director of our upstream activities and Nick Luff joining Centrica from P&O as Group Finance Director.
We have set out a clear agenda for Centrica in the form of four I believe that under the leadership of Sam Laidlaw the team has strategic priorities and we will continue to focus on these as we already begun to make a real difference to both the short-term move forward.
In doing this we will seek to strike the appropriate performance and the long-term prospects of Centrica.
balance between driving increased efficiencies in the current core UK energy business, providing growth across the Group Our employees and evaluating and securing additional quality upstream assets In a business such as Centrica, people are central to the delivery of to reduce exposure to short-term commodity price movements.
better service and improving financial results.
Our employees have Only by delivering against our priorities will we be able to satisfy worked hard to support the change in systems, working practices, our customers and reward our employees while maximising returns organisation structure and management within the Company.
I thank them all for their loyalty, hard work and dedication.
It is a credit to them that British Gas Business and British Gas Services were both recognised in the Financial Times Top 50 Best Workplaces for 2007.
The future Wholesale energy prices remain extremely volatile and the high gas price at the start of 2008 has squeezed retail supply margins Roger Carr in the UK.
In these circumstances retail price increases have been Chairman necessary in order to restore reasonable margins.
21 February 2008 Go online Why not manage your shares online?
Our electronic communication service provides fast, easy access to shareholder information.
