INTRODUCTION 04 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT We have continued our investment in both Jon had completed 10 years of distinguished areas and you can read a review of the service in the Group and his experience progress made in this report.
and management skills were greatly valued.
I am delighted that Simon Lowth joined the The acquisition of MedImmune was a major Company in November as an Executive decision, which the Board sees as Director and the Chief Financial Officer.
The addition Simon brings with him a successful track of MedImmune builds on the earlier investment record of business transformation in previous in Cambridge Antibody Technology in the strategic and financial roles at Scottish Power.
field of biologics and takes AstraZeneca He has proved to be a valuable addition to into vaccine technology for the first time.
Group sales increased by 7% in 2007 to a total MedImmune brings not only first class biologics of $29.6 billion.
The inclusion of MedImmune and vaccines assets to the Group but also There were a number of changes to the for seven months of the year increased sales around 3,000 skilled professionals with composition of the Board during the year.
Operating profit was $8.1 billion, reduced expertise ranging from discovery through to At our AGM in April, we said a warm farewell by restructuring and synergy costs of $966 commercialisation.
In developing areas of and thank you to Peter Bonfield and Erna million and by a $178 million loss from the medical science, these are skills that are Mller when they stepped down as Noninclusion of MedImmune.
I am confident that the Executive Directors following 12 years of restructuring and synergy costs, operating combined strength of our existing small service.
Their individual contributions to the profit for 2007 was up by 8% and R&D molecule expertise and the newly acquired Company over those years were significant investment increased to over $5 billion for expertise in large molecules and vaccines and both served on various Board committees.
will generate benefits for the Company and In addition, Peter ably took on the role of its shareholders.
AstraZenecas senior, independent NonReported earnings per share for the full year Executive Director for many years.
Also in April, were $3.74, compared with $3.86 in 2006.
Our key products have continued to deliver Joe Jimenez resigned as a Non-Executive Earnings per share excluding restructuring benefits to millions of patients every day around Director following his appointment to an and synergy costs were $4.20, compared the world.
We have met our sales targets executive position at Novartis and we wish with our guidance of $3.98 to $4.13 on the despite depressed pricing in our traditional him well.
The Board has recommended a heartlands of Europe and the US and 10% increase in the second interim dividend challenges to our intellectual property.
In the I was pleased on behalf of the Board to be able to $1.35 67.7 pence, SEK 8.61 per emerging markets, we have continued to build to welcome Bo Angelin as a new NonOrdinary Share.
This brings the dividend for our businesses for the benefit of patients today Executive Director in July.
Bo is a distinguished the full year to $1.87 93.0 pence, SEK as well as pursuing opportunities to broaden medical scientist and I am sure that he will 12.10, an increase of 9%.
In 2007, cash access to our medicines in the future.
provide a valuable contribution to the Boards distributions to shareholders, through a work.
It also gives me pleasure to report that combination of dividends and share 2007 has not been an easy year for the Michele Hooper, who has been a member of re-purchases totalled $6.8 billion.
With pressure on the Board for over four years now, has agreed re-purchases for the full year amounted to pricing and increased demand for investment, to become our new senior, independent $4.2 billion.
The Board expects to undertake companies have been forced to drive Non-Executive Director, in succession to share re-purchases in the region of $1 billion efficiencies right across the business in order Peter Bonfield.
in 2008, subject to business needs.
The Board has been fully supportive of the programme In 2008, our strategy remains unchanged: With the debt that we issued following the that David Brennan has put in place to improve we shall continue to meet the needs of patients acquisition of MedImmune, we have now productivity in every area of the Company.
today, while investing for the benefit of patients established a balanced portfolio of short-term There is no question that this sort of activity of the future.
By doing this successfully and funding, which we intend to pay down over the poses challenges for a management team responsibly, we will deliver the greatest rewards next three or four years, as well as mediumand the Board believes that this high level of to shareholders and society as a whole.
The to long-term funding, while still maintaining a change has been handled responsibly and in business environment will continue to present strong credit rating.
a way that is consistent with the values of challenges and the Board will work with the Company.
David Brennan and his leadership team to Our drive to strengthen the pipeline has been ensure that our business continues to adapt led by the review conducted in 2006 to During 2007, the Board has reviewed key as needed, taking advantage of opportunities determine the areas of disease where we aspects of the Companys strategy and and investing for sustainable growth.
could derive the most value for patients and operations including its financial policies, human shareholders.
This resulted in a strategy resources planning, and externalisation projects.
reflecting both our inherent strength in certain In January 2008, the Board concluded its fields of research and the areas of greatest yearly review of its own processes to ensure unmet medical need.
As a result, we are that it is functioning well and properly focusing on six disease areas and ensuring representing the interests of shareholders.
LOUIS SCHWEITZER that we have access to leading research in Chairman each area.
Some of this research resides in At the end of July, I announced the resignation our own laboratories and some has been of Jon Symonds as Chief Financial Officer sourced from third party researchers.
to pursue his career outside AstraZeneca.
