3d Time: 15:16:45 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -1447053648 Overview Chairmans message The 2007 financial year was a very good one for your company our results once again were excellent.
Revenue grew by 4% and earnings per share before specic items grew by 16% to 22.7 pence.
I am delighted to report that our proposed full year dividend is As the corporate social responsibility agenda evolves, so does 15.1 pence per share, 27% higher than last year, moving to a our strategy.
We are, for example, increasingly emphasising two-thirds pay out ratio a year earlier than we had previously three new priorities: announced.
We expect to increase the dividend, taking into s tackling climate change.
We are committed to cutting our account our earnings growth, cash generation and our ongoing CO emissions by 80% from 1996 levels by 2016 and to 2 investment needs.
In addition, because of the financial strength helping customers and suppliers cut theirs through the more of the company we are introducing a new 2.5 billion share buy effective use of communications technology.
The fact that our back programme which we expect to be completed by Chief Executive, Ben Verwaayen, is chairing the CBIs climate 31 March 2009. change task force indicates how seriously we take this issue.
We are increasingly BUSINESS PROGRESS integrating sustainability in all our business processes.
We continued to implement our strategy for profitable growth.
s helping to build a more inclusive society.
We are looking at New wave revenue now accounts for 36% of our total business.
the ways in which communications technology can help to We are a major player in the global networked IT services build a fairer, more inclusive society.
market, meeting the needs of our customers around the world.
In the UK, we have around 11 million broadband lines over PENSIONS which we are able to offer all our customers consumer, SME, Investment performance on assets in the BT Pension Scheme corporate and wholesale a more accessible, faster and richer BTPS was very good, with year end value at a record broadband experience.
Under a new and more conservative actuarial methodology, the deficit at 31 December 2005 was calculated as 3.4 billion.
We are committed to BT has agreed to make deficit payments equivalent to 280 million a year for ten years, with the first three years operating in an ethical, instalments paid up front 840 million was paid into the scheme by 30 April 2007.
I believe this is a fair and prudent sustainable and socially deal for pensioners and shareholders, and demonstrates that your company stands fully behind its pension obligations.
I will be stepping down as Chairman in the autumn after more OUR WIDER RESPONSIBILITIES than six challenging and fascinating years with BT.
Sir Mike Rake I am extremely proud of the fact that, for the sixth consecutive will take over as your next Chairman in September.
Mike is year, BT was the highest placed telecommunications company in currently chairman of KPMG International: he has demonstrated the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
We are committed to outstanding leadership of this major global organisation during a operating in an ethical, sustainable and socially responsible way, time of turbulence and change.
He will bring extensive and to having a positive impact on all those communities whose international experience to BT as it continues to position itself as lives we touch.
4 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F Filename: 51384 02b.
3d Time: 15:16:48 Date: 19 05 07 Checksum: -201962958 A number of changes to the Board have occurred since I last Back in 2001 your companys net debt had risen to nearly wrote to you.
Sir Anthony Greener stepped down as Deputy 30 billion.
In response, in May 2001, your Board put in place Chairman and from the Board on 30 September 2006 after six an action plan to reduce debt, manage costs and enhance our years and I would like to thank him for his very significant abilities to serve our customers even more effectively.
That plan contribution to the development of our strategy.
His successor is has been delivered.
Maarten van den Bergh, who has been a non-executive director Debt was brought under control by a combination of the since September 2000.
Maarten, who prior to his retirement was largest ever rights issue in UK corporate history and the disposal president of the Royal Dutch Petroleum Company, also chairs of a number of businesses including Yell our international the Remuneration Committee and is our senior independent directories and e-commerce business and our interests in Japan director.
And Id like to welcome two new directors, Deborah and Spain.
O2 previously Cellnet was demerged and Concert Lathen and Franc ois Barrault.
Deborah, who is president of our international joint venture with AT&T was unwound.
These Washington-based Lathen Consulting, joined the Board as a structural changes have provided commercial and financial non-executive director in February 2007.
She brings strong US exibility for the group and our debt in recent years has reduced business and policy experience to BT, including as a previous to sustainable levels.
chief of the Cable Services Bureau at the US Federal We have rigorously managed our costs, taking a disciplined Communications Commission.
Franc ois joined the Board on approach to eliminating waste and duplication, wherever 24 April 2007 as Chief Executive BT Global Services in which possible using our own technology to become more cost role he succeeds Andy Green who became CEO of Group effective.
As President of BT International, During that period, new technologies have given customers Franc ois established a record of exceptional growth in BTs access to a range of services high-speed broadband, xedoperations outside the UK.
Our efforts in UK broadband and in global networked IT service have been very successful.
Services that have LOOKING FORWARD transformed our Looking ahead, your company is positioned for success.
With a new Chairman and an experienced CEO at the helm, and a customers idea workforce experienced in the business of transformation, the signs are very positive.
It has been a privilege to be involved with BTs journey to this point: I shall, of course, continue to of what is possible follow its future progress with great interest and pleasure................................................................................................................................................. DELIVERING OUR PLAN I would like to thank shareholders and customers for their confidence in our strategy and the loyalty they have shown in the past six years.
Id also like to thank our Chief Executive, Ben Verwaayen, the other members of the Board both executive and nonexecutive and all BT people for their efforts and unwavering support.
If I cannot entirely resist the temptation to look back Sir Christopher Bland over the past six years, it is because that is the best way of Chairman 16 May 2007 acknowledging what they have achieved.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 5 Overview
