Statement by the Chairman I am delighted to report another year of outstanding performance following the excellent profits generated in 2006.
Underlying profit before tax increased 64% and earnings per share increased 56% to 53.2 million 2006: 32.5 million and 112p 2006: 72p respectively.
Profit before tax and earnings per share on continuing operations increased by 57% and 50% respectively.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 17.8p, giving a total for the year of 25.0p, an increase of 56% over last year.
Both our operating divisions, Countermeasures and Energetics, performed strongly and achieved record years.
The Board has been cognisant for some time of the The Group maintained its position as the worlds leading continuing development of our activities in the US, and the manufacturer of countermeasure decoys, with over 50% probability that the US would be a major source of both our market share, including a commanding presence in the vital organic and acquisitive growth in the future.
Our competitors, inevitably, challenge us at November 2007 the Company completed a $150 million every opportunity but our recognition of their activities, the private placement in the US of ten year fixed interest loan strength of our research and development and new notes, with an interest rate of approximately 6.30%.
products, and our investment in the latest manufacturing technologies continues to strengthen our order book for COUNTERMEASURES future years.
During the year, Alloy Surfaces completed the Our Energetics activities expanded rapidly through a commissioning of its third plant in the US.
In the UK, combination of organic and acquisitive growth.
This division Chemring Countermeasures, which has enjoyed now manufactures a broad portfolio of explosive and considerable success with its new spectral flares and is the pyrotechnic ordnance, with twelve factories in seven sole source supplier of countermeasure flares for the countries.
It has also become a vital supplier to the major Typhoon, has commissioned a major new production plant prime contractors in a widely fragmented industry, whilst at its base in Salisbury.
becoming a prime contractor in its own right.
During the year the Group completed the acquisitions of Kilgores performance during the year was affected by Simmel Difesa in Italy, Dyno Nobels High Energy Materials composition difficulties in two products - not an unknown business in Norway now trading as Chemring Nobel, and problem in our industry, and delays on product lot the remaining 49% shareholding in Pirotcnia Oroquieta in acceptances due to external factors in the final month of Spain.
The total value of these acquisitions was 57 million, the year which affected revenue recognition.
However, of which 50.2 million was satisfied in cash and Kilgore has significantly increased its order book, 6.8 million by the issue of new shares in the Company.
particularly as it is the supplier of flares for the new Raptor and Joint Strike Fighter.
This business is expected to have Since the year end, the Group has acquired Richmond the greatest growth in the Countermeasures division over Electronics & Engineering Limited in the UK for 11 million.
The acquisition was funded utilising existing bank facilities.
BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW Our operating companies continued to deliver a very strong cash flow of 60.6 million 2006: 45.6 million, which has enabled us to fund the majority of acquisitions for debt, whilst maintaining a debt equity ratio of 80% 2006: 75% and interest cover on underlying operating profit of 8 times 2006: 6 times.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 3 Statement by the Chairman CONTINUED ENERGETICS HEALTH AND SAFETY At the half year, I stated that the Energetics division faced As previously reported, an explosion occurred at our challenges in developing an effective organisational Simmel Difesa site in Italy on 9 October 2007.
Very structure, rationalising production plants and strengthening regrettably, this resulted in one fatality and injuries to several its international sales capability.
These objectives are other employees.
The Board is committed to ensuring that ongoing.
With regards to the organisational structure, the incidents such as this do not recur in the future, and the management has concentrated on finding appropriately provision of a safe working environment for all our employees qualified personnel, both at divisional level and in the remains a critical feature of the Groups development.
individual subsidiaries, to promote our substantial product offering.
The benefits of these appointments will start to THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND come through in 2008.
I am delighted to say that the OTHER NON-EXECUTIVE production rationalisation programme is also progressing APPOINTMENTS very well.
There have been no changes to the composition of the Our strategy to grow this division is proving successful, Board since I last reported.
I believe its current membership with revenue for the year now exceeding that of the is appropriate for the size of the Group and the skills Countermeasures division.
required for proper corporate governance.
As we continue to grow, the directors will reflect on future requirements.
GROUP STRATEGY A number of our overseas subsidiaries are, of course, Our Group strategy remains unchanged.
We will continue to supported by non-executive directors appointed specifically concentrate on our two divisions - Countermeasures, where for their contributions in individual countries.
In the US, for we are the world leader, and Energetics, where, in a sector example, our Group has the support of five prominent US with many fragmented businesses, we are becoming a citizens, three of whom are retired Generals or Admirals major force.
It is possible that, as this latter division who contribute fully to the success of the US operations.
expands, one of the individual product categories within it The same philosophy is currently adopted in Australia, and might justify its establishment as a separate third division.
Our intentions are to continue to grow organically and, PENSIONS where possible, by acquisition.
We are committed to expansion in both divisions, and are currently planning to In previous reports I have stated my confidence that we establish additional manufacturing facilities in certain chosen would address future funding requirements for the Groups countries, including India and the Far East.
I expect this latter UK defined benefit pension plans without any material development to take three to five years to achieve.
change to the financial contributions currently made by the Group, as we believe that the existing funds are adequate to meet their obligations.
I am happy to report that the 2006 valuation for the Executive Pension Scheme has been successfully completed and submitted to the Pension Regulator.
We hope to conclude our discussions with the trustees of the Staff Pension Scheme in the next few weeks.
The Group introduced a new defined contribution scheme for UK employees during the year, and take-up of membership has been very encouraging to date.
4 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 PROSPECTS The Board remains committed to delivering total shareholder value, through the generation of strong after tax profits and a progressive dividend policy.
Our strategy has already proved very successful, with over 50% earnings and dividend growth in both of the last two years.
The Board believes it can continue with this strategy and produce further above average growth.
Next year we expect to see continuing growth in our Countermeasures business, and the ongoing development of Energetics, as this division starts to realise its full potential.
We believe the Group is ideally placed to participate in the DIVIDENDS consolidation of this fragmented energetics industry.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 17.8p per Inevitably, questions are often raised concerning the ordinary share, a 59% increase on the final dividend for longevity of both the Iraq and Afghanistan conflicts.
This, together with the interim dividend of 7.2p paid Adjustments in procurement will eventually take place but in July 2007, gives a total dividend for the year of 25.0p, a our healthy order book and knowledge of military 56% increase over 2006.
The dividend is over four times requirements gives us confidence in our long term future.
covered on net profits of the continuing operations.
The We look forward to the 2008 financial year and are shares will be marked ex dividend on 26 March 2008 and confident that it will be another year of strong the dividend is payable on 18 April 2008 to shareholders on performance.
the register at the close of business on 28 March 2008.
K C SCOBIE CHAIRMAN 22 JANUARY 2008 Excludes intangible amortisation arising from business combinations of 3.4 million 2006: 0.7million CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 5
