Chairmans Statement The future Were changing the way we communicate with our customers in order to develop long term relationships.
Big Yellow Group PLC Big Yellow, the Group or the Company, Net bank debt of 187.9 million at 31 March 2007 2006: We provide is pleased to announce results for the year and for the fourth 142.1 million represents approximately 27% 2006: 30% domestic and quarter ended 31 March 2007. of the Groups investment property and development property business users assets totalling 686.5 million 2006: 468.5 million and Overall, we are satisfied with the Groups trading performance 38% 2006: 44% of the adjusted net assets of 491.2 million with exceptional over the year.
A good summer was followed by a modest 2006: 322.3 million.
Activity levels saw a significant pick up customer service early in the New Year resulting in a strong fourth quarter to We are therefore conservatively geared, with significant from a network the end of March.
This is a seasonal business and we expect balance sheet capacity on which to secure future borrowings.
of high profile, to see the usual build up in occupancy and hence revenue over We have credit approval for an increase of 50 million in our the forthcoming summer months.
This will result in facilities conveniently available for drawdown of 85 million on completion.
We were pleased to receive approval by HMRC for conversion to a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT, backdated to Dividend 15 January 2007.
This is an important part of the Groups strategy The Board has proposed a final dividend of 5.5 pence per share, and was the culmination of several months of hard work.
which brings the total declared dividend in respect of the results of the financial year to 9.0 pence per share 2006: 5.0 pence Financial Results per share.
For further information on the dividend, see the Revenue for the fourth quarter has shown a significant 8% rise Financial Review.
to 13.9 million from 12.9 million for the third quarter ended 31 December 2006.
Revenue for the year was 51.2 million Valuation and Net Asset Value 2006: 41.9 million, an increase of 22%.
The value of the investment property portfolio at the Profit before tax for the year was 152.8 million up from 31 March 2007 was 590.1 million, up 179.6 million from 118.5 million last year.
After adjusting for the gain on the 410.5 million at 31 March 2006.
The increase in valuation in revaluation of investment properties and other matters see the same store portfolio is 92.9 million, representing a 22.6% note 10 the Group made an adjusted profit before tax in the total uplift, of which we estimate 11.5% is a function of capital period of 14.2 million, up 13% from 12.6 million in 2006. growth, and 11.1% operational performance.
The balance of 86.7 million is a valuation of new stores open in the period The basic earnings per share for the year was 192.97 pence comprising capital expenditure of 39.1 million and a 2006: 82.10 pence and the fully diluted earnings per share revaluation uplift of 47.6 million.
A significant proportion of this improvement is due to the release of deferred taxation The net yield on the portfolio based on the net operating following the Groups conversion to a REIT see note 9. income at store level in the first year after the projected Adjusted earnings per share based on adjusted profit after tax stabilisation of each store is 6.80% March 2006: 7.49%.
Whilst we believe there is unlikely to be any further significant Cash generated from operations rose to 30.2 million in the yield contraction for UK Real Estate assets, it is arguable that year 2006: 24.4 million, an increase of 24%.
there is still significant potential for yield compression for these types of self storage assets, due to a number of drivers: the yields compare favourably with more conventional Real Estate assets, as the March UK All Property IPD yield stands at 5.39% March 2006: 5.84% : 06 LOCATIONS HIGHLIGHTS CHAIRMANS YOUR SPACE BUSINESS FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS STATEMENT PARTNER REVIEW REVIEW We were pleased to receive approval by HMRC for conversion to a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT, backdated to 15 January 2007.
This is an important part of the Groups strategy and was the culmination of several months of hard work.
Real Estate Investment Trusts the yields on the Groups portfolio are post administration The Group has succeeded in converting to a REIT, effective from costs against IPD yields which are pre administration: 15 January 2007.
In essence, a REIT will exempt qualifying the Groups self storage assets have enjoyed 4.6% average companies from paying corporation tax on their qualifying annual net storage rent increases over the last five years and earnings in return for distributing 90% of qualifying profits to over the same period, same store NOI margins post allocation shareholders.
Certain rules apply to a REIT limiting the amount of of administration costs have increased from 48% to 58%: development, debt gearing and non-qualifying trading activities.
this is an institutional asset class in North America and The cost of conversion represents 2% of gross property assets, Australia, and is growing globally and will benefit from which based on the value of the Groups properties at 15 January increasing institutional interest in the UK particularly for this year totalling 599.9 million, would represent a liability of purpose built, well located modern facilities.
The final charge will be subject to agreement with The increase in value of the Groups investment properties, together the tax authorities.
This sum will be paid in July 2007. with an adjustment to the valuation assumptions results in a Conversion to a REIT represents a significant step forward for the 140.8p increase in the adjusted fully diluted net asset value per Group, largely eliminating the Groups corporation tax liability going share over the year.
The valuation of these assets is a business forward and completely eliminating an estimated 95 million of asset valuation, assuming an acquisition of not just the property, contingent capital gains tax liability as at 15 January 2007. but also the operating cash flow.
This by definition requires the Furthermore, Big Yellow has a significant development pipeline of sale of the operational contracts customer, employment and self storage assets, within the REIT ringfence and the development maintenance etc attached to the property which is difficult to gains arising will generally be tax-free.
achieve except in a corporate structure.
Accordingly the adjusted net asset per share this year reflects the assumption that the Stores and the Market assets are valued in accordance with the RICS Red Book assuming Self storage, we believe, will become increasingly mainstream as a sale in a corporate structure.
The assets are still held in the a sector, which will inevitably mean increased financial and human Group balance sheet on the basis of the prior year RICS Red Book capital availability, resulting in increased competition over a period valuation assuming a direct property sale.
A full disclosure of the of time.
Supply of self storage, however, will remain largely rationale and impact is contained in the Financial Review on page constrained by the availability of land, planning consents and 17 and in note 14. competition from other uses, particularly in London and the larger 90% by value of the Groups 43 open stores and sites held provincial cities and towns.
for development are freehold including one long leasehold.
At the period end, occupied space represented 1,835,000 sq ft, The freehold proportion will increase as we open stores in the up 10% from 1,672,000 sq ft at the same time last year.
This development pipeline, all of which are freehold.
We strongly believe represents 71% occupancy rate across all 43 stores open at the that these assets will materially outperform our short leasehold period end.
assets due to the wasting nature of the latter.
This is illustrated by the fact that the freeholds within the same store portfolio We have included, as usual, a table summarising the performance showed a valuation uplift in the year of 24%, compared to an uplift of all our stores over the year, this can be found on page 20. of 12% in respect of the nine short leasehold stores.
07 Chairmans Statement continued The portfolio of 30 stores that were open for more than two We now have five further sites with applications submitted, years at the beginning of the period was 85% occupied at the with five more close to being submitted following extensive end of the year, with an average occupancy during the year consultations.
One site is subject to an appeal to the Secretary of 85%.
In addition these 30 stores achieved EBITDA margins of State for further determination and the balance have more of 64% 2006: 62% and, after an allocation of central recently been acquired and are in the feasibility phase.
overhead, net operating income margins of 58% 2006: 56%.
We now have 23 stores in the pipeline including one The 21 freehold stores within this 30 achieved EBITDA margins extension site at our Richmond store, which when fully of 71% in the year.
developed, will represent an additional 1.5 million sq ft and Same store revenue for these 30 stores increased 8% year on when open will provide the Group with a total of 66 stores year, 6% as a result of increases in average prices and yield and 4.1 million sq ft.
The result is an estimated development management: 1% average occupancy growth and the balance programme of 221 million.
The build up in the pipeline should improved packing material and insurance sales.
In addition ensure a faster opening schedule in future years.
61% of our from May 2007, we have successfully put through our target total stores and sites are located within the M25 and 57 are annual storage price rise of approximately 4.2% across the freehold or long leasehold.
In the year we have opened six whole 43 store portfolio.
stores three in London, and one each in Tunbridge Wells, Bristol Ashton Gate and Gloucester.
Property At 31 March 2007, there was surplus land held in the balance We acquired nine freehold sites in the year, five in London sheet of 29.7 million, and since the year end, we have sold and four outside London at Sheffield, Nottingham, Poole land at our development site in Merton for 7.7 million.
surplus land will be disposed of in due course.
Since the year end, we have acquired a further three sites in Reading, Birmingham, and Camberley.
International Franchise I am pleased to announce that in October 2006 we signed As part of our expansion strategy, we continue to seek sites our first International Franchise Agreement for the United in the Midlands and the North and have recently acquired sites Arab Emirates with Big Yellow FZ LLC, a privately backed in Birmingham since the year end and Nottingham to add to business set up to exploit the opportunities for development our existing sites in Manchester, Liverpool and Sheffield.
of a network of Big Yellow stores in the Gulf Cooperation After a frustrating first six months we secured six planning Council states.
The site for the first store in Dubai has been consents in the second half of the year.
Importantly all six acquired and has now started construction to develop a were in London, where the process is at its most complex.
280,000 sq ft Big Yellow Self Storage centre, which is expected These, together, with our site in Fulham result in seven stores to open in spring 2008.
Furthermore, since the year end we being constructed at present or with planning.
The government have signed a Franchise Agreement with the same partner has imposed a target timescale of 13 weeks for Local for the Kingdom of Bahrain.
This has proved untenable As is typical of franchise structures, we are not investing in our experience, and accordingly a substantial amount of capital in this business but are providing operating know-how pre-application consultation is necessary before submission.
and the licensing of the Big Yellow brand for an upfront fee and This process in general is taking longer than the application a share of future revenues.
08 We believe that the three value drivers of our business, development, occupancy growth and rental growth, fuelled by the location of our stores, branding, marketing and management will continue to deliver strong returns to shareholders.
We are now reviewing other opportunities to expand the business The last word goes to Philip Burks, a co-founder of the Group and internationally using this franchise model and have taken steps to its Property Director for the last seven years who has surrendered protect the trademark in selected territories.
his executive role to become a non-executive.
Through his contacts, experience and expertise, Philip has played a critical role Our People over the years in the expansion and success of Big Yellow and on As we have consistently reported on over the last seven years, behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him for his contribution.
the Big Yellow team has remained largely stable, both at Head Furthermore I remain grateful that he will remain close to Big Office and within the stores.
Never complacent on this issue Yellow and I am pleased to say he will be available as and when however, we are constantly investing in our people, which we we need his advice or access to his connections.
believe is reflected in the very high customer satisfaction responses that we receive.
97% of our customers would Outlook recommend using Big Yellow to a friend.
We are currently enjoying good trading conditions and we expect this to continue into the summer.
We have secured six planning For some four years, James Gibson has combined the roles of consents in the second half of the year, two since we last reported Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director of the Group, but in January.
Planning remains a significant obstacle, but with a as the Group becomes larger and more complex, we have resolved pipeline of 23 sites, of which 14 are in London, we hope that this to split these functions.
Accordingly, John Trotman has been will deliver a steady stream of freehold store openings over the appointed as Chief Financial Officer and will be joining the coming years.
In the meantime we intend to continue adding sites Company on 25 June this year.
It is the Boards intention to to the pipeline.
promote John to the Board in due course.
John is a Chartered Accountant and former Senior Manager at Deloitte & Touche LLP, We believe that the three value drivers of our business, where he specialised in the real estate sector and self storage.
development, occupancy growth and rental growth, fuelled by the Since leaving Deloitte in 2005, John has been working for a location of our stores, branding, marketing and management will subsidiary of the Kajima Corporation involved in the large continue to deliver strong returns to shareholders.
Additionally, as reported above, we are intending to expand our international franchise operations and have appointed Tom Wilcockson as International Franchise Director and we expect him to join the Group in July of this year.
Tom previously held the same position at Early Learning Centre, where he was largely Nicholas Vetch responsible for the implementation of that Groups international Chairman franchise expansion.
I would like to take the opportunity of thanking all the people who work at Big Yellow for their continued efforts, loyalty and hard work which, at the risk of repetition, really does make the difference between success and failure in our business.
09 Reserve online LOCATIONS HIGHLIGHTS CHAIRMANS YOUR SPACE BUSINESS FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS STATEMENT PARTNER REVIEW REVIEW Some people might not think they need storage.
Some people think of self storage as large, damp, cold buildings in the middle of nowhere.
They have no idea of the clean, secure, welcoming customer experience that Big Yellow offers.
They think that self storage is only needed by businesses.
Yes, we do provide a solution for businesses, both big and small.
But self storage can also be invaluable to the general public, for all kinds of different reasons, throughout their lives.
The things they need and dont need change.
And the demands on the space they have change.
At Big Yellow, we dont just provide people with space for the belongings theyre currently not using.
We help them create more space for themselves.
We are their space partner at different stages in their lives.
Whatever peoples reasons for needing space in their lives, we offer them flexible storage solutions to suit their specific circumstances.
Whether they only need a room big enough for a few bits and pieces, or one big enough for a house full of things, we can provide it.
Whatever stage people are at in their lives, Big Yellow is the cleanest, most welcoming, flexible and secure place for them to store the belongings they dont need, and create the space they do.
