Chairmans Statement 2007 has been a good year for Brixton despite the turbulent economic environment.
We have benefited greatly from the decision taken in the early part of 2006 to sell the majority of our secondary property and to look selectively at making prime acquisitions in our core geographical markets West London and Trafford Park, Manchester which consistently outperform, as well as progressing with our planned development programme.
The resilience of our business model is shown by the performance of our portfolio particularly in rental growth terms.
Our gearing is at an appropriate level and with all our on-balance sheet debt unsecured, having a large element at fixed rates and with no requirement to raise further funds, we are in a strong financial position at this time of uncertain market conditions.
Results Our portfolio produced a valuation surplus of 0.7%, or 1.5% if measured on a like-for-like basis.
This compares favourably with the deficits of close to 10% recorded by the property market indices.
Brixtons robust performance contributed to the 2.1% increase in adjusted NAV per share to 545p from 534p at the end of 2006.
However, the effect of the planned disposals during 2006 was to reduce net rental income by 8.2% to 72.5m, although on a like-for-like basis there was an increase of 1.5%.
Investment profit reduced marginally by 1.0m or 2.1% to 46.6m and adjusted earnings per share rose by 13.9% to 17.2p.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 8.8p per share, making a total of 13.6p per share for the year, an increase of 11.5% over the 2006 dividend of 12.2p per share.
This marks 40 years of unbroken dividend increases.
Board and Management I am delighted to report that Peter Dawson and Steve Lee accepted invitations to join the main Board as Investment Director and Operations Director respectively with effect from 5 December 2007.
Peter has been with the Company for 10 years and has been at the heart of the portfolio changes that we have been through.
Steve, who set up, and remains Managing Director of, B-Serv, joined Brixton in 2001.
On 7 March 2008 Mark Moran was appointed as a Non-executive Director.
Mark is Group Finance Director of SSL International plc and previously held the same position at Porvair plc.
He brings to the Board further business and financial expertise.
In addition to a strengthened Board, Richard Howell has added the role of Company Secretary to his position as Financial Controller and Stephen Armitage has been recruited as Senior Operations Director Asset Management and Customer Service.
He is also joined on the 15 person Operations Board by Paul Bridson who has been promoted as Operations Director Asset Management.
I would like to thank all our staff for their efforts in their continued support of the business.
