Chairmans statement Capital & Regional has seen a marked fall in the valuation of many of its property interests in 2007, a year in which there have been exceptional stresses in the worlds financial markets.
Although net rental income and management fees were resilient, contributing to recurring pre-tax profits of 32.7 million 2006: 32.3 million, the weakness of UK property valuations, the impact of gearing in a falling market and the claw-back of performance fees led to a reduction in triple net NAV per share to 10.04 per share December 2006: 12.72 per share.
The pre-tax loss for the year, which under IFRS includes the unrealised valuation deficit, was 167 million 2006: 251 million profit.
A final dividend of 17p per share is being recommended, the same level as last year.
When combined with the increased interim dividend of 10p per share already paid, shareholders will enjoy 4% higher dividend income than in respect of 2006.
2008 promises a continuation of the challenging conditions seen in 2007, with a market consensus of further downward movements in UK valuations during the course of the year.
The Company is prepared for these conditions and the release of capital arising from the formation of a trade parks fund since the year end has further strengthened our position.
Turbulence in the financial markets is outside the Companys control, whereas the active management of the 6 billion of properties for which we are responsible is our constant focus.
We have continued to work on our tenant mix, grow footfall and concentrate on what the visitors to our centres and parks want.
The attractiveness of our properties to our tenants is consequently strengthened: and, in turn, looking through the volatility of current conditions, their ultimate value should be enhanced.
This can only be achieved through the efforts of all of our employees and, in such a testing year, their performance has been exemplary and deserves our thanks.
They will be led from 1 April 2008 by a new Chief Executive, Hugh Scott-Barrett, who was from 2000 to 2007 a member of the managing board of ABN AMRO, most recently as chief financial officer.
He succeeds the Companys founder Martin Barber, whose extraordinary contribution to the Company over the past thirty years provides the base from which future growth can be built.
On behalf of shareholders, the Board thanks him warmly for everything he has done for the Company.
Tom Chandos Chairman 10 April 2008 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007 19
