Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 07 Chairmans statement Overview and results After our first year as Derwent London following the acquisition of London Merchant Securities LMS in February 2007, it is extremely pleasing to be able to report a strong set of results.
2007 has been a testing period for the property sector, particularly in the latter months when the industry experienced a sharp decline in values.
Against this background, the results clearly demonstrate the quality of both our portfolio and management.
Adjusted net asset value per share, based on the total net assets of the group, increased to 1,862p from the proforma figure of 1,717p at 1st February 2007, the acquisition completion date.
The adjusted figure, excluding minority interests, was 1,801p, an increase of 8.4% from the comparable proforma figure of 1,662p.
An increase of 12.8% in the first The Johnson Building, EC1 Art Jason Martin six months was followed by a decline of 3.9% in the second half as the impact of the credit crisis contributed to an increase in yields.
At the year end, the investment portfolio was valued at 2.7 billion, producing a surplus of 94.4 million before the lease incentive adjustment of A strong set of results in a testing 4.1 million.
The valuation reflects a true equivalent yield of 5.7%.
The period for the property sector, clearly central London properties, which account for 93% of the total portfolio, showed a 5.8% increase for the year.
Properties held throughout the demonstrating the quality of both period gained in value by 4.3% compared to 21.6% in 2006. our portfolio and management.
Recurring profit before tax, which includes 11 months of the results of LMS, was 38.0 million.
This measure of performance has increased 132% from last years level of 16.4 million.
REITS The group converted to a REIT on 1st July 2007 to take advantage of the more favourable tax regime in which it is exempt from tax on both rental profits and chargeable gains.
The consequent conversion charge, calculated as 2% of the value of the investment portfolio at the date of conversion, amounts to 53.6 million.
This is included in the tax charge for the year and will be paid during 2008.
As a REIT, the group was able to eliminate the latent capital gains tax liability on the investment property portfolio.
Following conversion, the group moved decisively to take advantage of the active investment market and effect tax efficient disposals of non-core properties.
This achieved outstanding results and, together with the first half sales, proceeds totalled 344 million net of costs, showing a surplus of 130 million or 63% over the proforma values.
The exemption from tax on capital gains saved the group 31.3 million of tax on these disposals.
Dividend As a REIT, the group is subject to a minimum distribution test whereby at least 90% of recurring profits from the tax-exempt business must be distributed as a Property Income Dividend PID.
Therefore, all dividends must now be allocated between PIDs and non-PIDs.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 15.0p per share of which 10.0p per share will be paid as a PID.
This will be paid on 19th June 2008 to shareholders on the register on 23rd May 2008.
Together with the non-PID interim dividend of 7.5p per share this gives a total dividend for the year of 22.5p per share.
In accordance with the groups revised policy, this dividend includes a substantial proportion of the tax on income saved through REIT conversion and represents an increase of 52.5% on the 14.75p paid in respect of 2006.
Chairmans statement Finally, at the Angel Building in Islington, planning permission has 2 been obtained for a 23,700m property, an increase of 58% from the existing building.
This project also illustrates how, by working closely with our tenants, we are able to unlock additional value from within our portfolio.
A restructuring of the existing lease was negotiated whereby we are able to undertake construction works immediately but the tenant continues to pay the rent of 4.2 million per annum until March 2010.
With the scheme expected to be delivered for occupation in 2010, this has mitigated a substantial income void.
Qube, 90 Whitfield Street, W1 During the year, further investment has been made in the groups pipeline of future projects.
Within the key London villages of Clerkenwell, Fitzrovia and Noho, 142 million was expended on enlarging our 2 holdings.
The average passing rent of these acquisitions is 178 per m 16.50 per sq ft and all have the scope to substantially increase floor area.
In addition, capital expenditure on projects during the year was 61 million.
Principally, this was incurred on our pre-let schemes at Horseferry House and Arup Phases II and III, as well as Qube which completed towards the year end and Portobello Dock which completes 2 in March.
Board The directors are delighted to welcome David Silverman to the board.
David, who has been with the group since 2002, was appointed on Market review 2nd January 2008 with responsibility for investment acquisitions After a strong first half for property values, the second half of the year was and sales.
characterised by a lack of liquidity and rising yields, causing a decline in values.
By contrast, tenant demand remained strong, particularly in our Prospects core area of operations, the West End.
This area has a limited supply of Our objective is to create superior shareholder return through the intensive quality office space and, as a consequence, has enjoyed growth in management of our central London portfolio.
This is characterised by its rental values of 14.6% over the year.
reversionary nature as well as the potential to create value through lease management and high quality refurbishment or re-development.
These In our key London villages, we continue to focus on the middle market features not only underpin our future growth but also allow us to manage delivering our hallmark, design-led offices at economic rents ranging risk in times of uncertainty.
When measured against prime rents in Mayfair and St. Jamess, which have exceeded At present, the investment market is experiencing some instability and 2 1,290 per m 120 per sq ft, we believe our buildings are an attractive equilibrium will only return when there is a consistent deal flow, which proposition for tenants.
The success of this approach is demonstrated requires the restoration of both confidence and liquidity to the market.
2 by lettings totalling 21,900m being completed during the year at rental Currently, demand for space in the West End remains firm for the limited levels 18% above the valuers December 2006 estimates.
However, in the event of a general economic slowdown, included both the highest rent achieved at Tower House, Covent even in this distinctive area, rental growth is likely to be affected.
Garden and a record rent for Fitzrovia at Qube.
At the year end, space 2 available for letting within the groups 533,000m 5.7 million sq ft While these factors lead us to have a cautious view of the market in the portfolio amounted to 4.0% by floor area and 4.5% by rental value.
year ahead, our focus on properties offering mid-market rents, provides relative resilience and many of the groups most successful projects The planning process continues to become more complicated and were originally acquired in similarly testing markets.
At the year end, both lengthy.
In order to minimise voids during this period, and to maintain balance sheet gearing at 42.5% and profit and loss gearing at 1.81, were flexibility over the timing of schemes, it is part of the groups strategy at comfortable levels.
Together with unused, committed, bank facilities to keep properties income producing until works commence.
of 370 million and long-term rental commitments from quality tenants, this shows the group to be financially well positioned not only to face, Despite the protracted process, three notable planning consents but also to capitalise, on these challenging times.
At North Wharf Road, Paddington, a 2 scheme for a landmark 22,300m office building and 100 residential In summary, whilst we foresee a more demanding market in which the apartments has been approved, an increase in floor area of 276% from key to value creation will be hands-on property expertise, we are the existing building.
The property is let until a possible start date of 2010. confident that your managements experience and proven skills will enable the group to take advantage of those opportunities which will Secondly, we have received planning permission for the redevelopment deliver future growth.
This involves replacing three buildings, 2 2 totalling 6,600m, with 9,500m of high quality offices.
They are all R. A. Rayne multi-let on leases that expire by 2012.
