Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 05 Chairmans statement It has been an active year in every aspect of our business.
With the investment market remaining strong, sensible rationalisation has continued at excellent prices, and at the same time we found some attractive purchases.
The year under review proved to be another exceptional one our two companies.
This looked like an interesting opportunity for your Company, helped by the central London property on the right terms: after conducting significant due diligence, market, in which we set out our strategic stall at the beginning we formed a clear opinion as to the maximum price we of the decade, continuing to ourish.
I feel that I can do no would have been prepared to pay.
When it became clear that better than let the statistics speak for themselves: adjusted we would not be able to agree a transaction on acceptable profit before tax of 17.4 million was up 5.5% and net asset terms, we withdrew from discussions.
value per share, even after taking into account the one-off Property and the nancing thereof are inextricably intertwined charge of 28.3 million when we converted into a Real and we have been equally active on the latter front.
It has been Estate Investment Trust in January 2007, was up by over 35% a busy period of capital structure management, in which the at 594 pence.
Total property returns were 33.2% and a 2027 7.25% Debenture was redeemed and the remaining stunning total shareholder return of over 60% was delivered.
2008 5.25% Convertible Bonds were converted into equity.
So, despite my caveat 12 months ago, the unrepeatable was, Sensible mediumand long-term arrangements have been in fact, repeatedand, in the event, bettered!
put in place, with the result that we have reduced the average It has been an active year in every aspect of our business.
cost of debt compared to the prior year and strengthened the With the investment market remaining strong, sensible platform to fund our future business plans.
rationalisation has continued at excellent prices, and During the year Neil Thompson was appointed to the Board at the same time we found some attractive purchases.
as Development Director, reecting the importance of our Probably the highlight for me was the acquisition, in five development business to the Group and, on 2 April 2007, separate transactions, of 160,000 sq ft in Hanover Square, Jonathan Short, whose skills and experience are well known W1 extending our ownership in that area to 1.3 acres and in the property industry, accepted an invitation to become a providing enticing development potential.
The West End, Non-Executive Director.
John Edgcumbe, who has been on the comprising 82%, is the most significant element of our Board for eight years and was a valued adviser for many years portfolio but we have also continued to unearth interesting before that, will be retiring at the Annual General Meeting in opportunities in sub-markets such as Blackfriars and July, and I would like to take this opportunity of thanking him, Bermondsey, where we believe that our entrepreneurial both corporately and personally, for the professionalism and skills will be able to create added value.
wisdom he has brought to us over a long period.
Following the existing successful joint ventures which we had In conclusion, I hope not to offend the football acionados already set up with Liverpool Victoria, we entered into two amongst shareholders when I, a life long Arsenal supporter, more during the year, the first with Scottish Widows in July, compliment our talented management team on their Chelseathe second with Liberty International subsidiary, Capital & like achievement in delivering a total shareholder return that Counties, which completed in April 2007.
Such joint ventures puts them in one of the top two positions over a one, two and have proved to be a productive avenue for access to properties three year perspective against their peer group.
Our goal is to which might not otherwise have been available in the market continue this run of success and, with the general consensus and provide a new source of revenue through management being that benign economic conditions will persist and with and ancillary fees.
Whilst this is an expansionary route we London playing an even more important role on the world shall be continuing to explore, currently it is our development financial stage, there is every reason to believe that your activity which will be the key to our performance in the near Company should provide above average total property to medium term.
So, I am happy to report that, as anticipated, returns in the coming year.
our programme is ring on all cylinders with what appears to be appropriate timing.
Active asset management of the portfolio continued and has, inter alia, ensured that voids have been kept to a low level.
Occasionally, there is a deal which is not consummated and shareholders will recall that in early October last year, Richard Peskin it was announced that we were in preliminary talks with Chairman London Merchant Securities regarding a potential merger of
