CHAIRmANS STATEmENT i am pleased to report strong growth in rental income and earnings by hammerson in 2007.
John Nelson Results And dividend debt levels, has recently resulted in slower growth in consumer Last September, I made reference to the slowdown in activity in spending.
Nevertheless, retailers continue to take space in major the UK commercial property market and the emerging weaknesses new schemes and existing prime retail locations are generally in global financial markets.
Since then the problems within the experiencing low vacancy levels.
international banking sector have increased markedly.
These have In the City of London office market, the buoyant demand seen exacerbated the weaker demand from investors for commercial for much of 2007 slowed during the last few months of the year.
property in the UK and been reflected in falls in real estate values.
There is continuing demand for well configured prime office space in Against this background, I am pleased to report strong growth in central London in a market where available space is currently limited.
rental income and earnings by Hammerson in 2007.
The groups However, in view of the level of development completions over the adjusted earnings per share increased by 23% or 7.5 pence to next two years and reflecting the reduced levels of activity in the 40.3 pence, reflecting new lettings, rent reviews, rent indexation financial services sector, the City occupational market may soften.
in France and the completion of developments.
For the time being, it appears likely that the UK investment market Hammersons adjusted NAV increased by 3.0% to 15.45 in 2007. for commercial property will remain subdued.
However, as and An increase of 9.0% in the first six months of the year was partly offset when the banking market stabilises, and with the prospect of lower by a decline of 5.5% in the second half, the latter reflecting the decline interest rates, conditions in the real estate investment market in real estate values in the UK in the last few months of the year.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 15.3 pence per share, In France, which accounts for nearly 30% of our business, demand making a total for 2007 of 27.3 pence, an increase of 25.9% on from retailers for space in shopping centres remained healthy.
The office occupational market in central Paris also remained strong with demand from a broad spread of occupiers.
There was continued MARket BAckgRound good investor interest in both these key markets with a further general Following 11 years of increasing real estate values in the UK, increase in values in 2007.
Whilst the current problems within there was a weakening of sentiment in the first half of 2007.
The international financial markets are likely to have an impact on French deterioration in international banking markets in the summer resulted real estate values, I anticipate that the effects will be less than in in a shortage of capital in the UK commercial property market and the UK, with the retail sector showing more resilience than offices.
contributed to a reduction in values in the last quarter.
Nevertheless, prime properties of the type owned by Hammerson, let on long PoRtfolio And oPeRAtions leases to occupiers with strong covenants, have shown greater We continued to make good progress in all areas of our business resilience than secondary assets.
At the beginning of the year we became a REIT and now have substantial tax-exempt businesses both in the UK and France.
With regard to occupational markets, retailers in the UK are This is of benefit to Hammersons business model, which places continuing to face challenging conditions.
Weakening consumer emphasis on the disposal of mature assets as part of a strategy confidence, a reflection of softening house prices and high personal of active asset management and development.
Annual Report 2007 005 Section CHAIRmANS STATEmENT continued We invested a total of 824 million and raised 537 million from Good progress was made on the current development programme.
Capital investment included the acquisitions Five of the six major projects underway are due for completion of Ravenhead Retail Park in St Helens: Stockley House, an office during 2008 and we continue to secure occupiers for them.
building in London SW1: and an increase from 75% to 100% in our The estimated cost of these schemes is around 950 million interest in Bishops Square, London E1.
In France, we acquired the of which 541 million has already been incurred.
Grand Maine Shopping Centre in Angers and invested in two new retail park development schemes.
The principal disposals were our interest in 9 place Vendme in Paris for 207 million and 50% of The Board is the WestQuay Shopping Centre in Southampton for 299 million.
recommending a final During 2007, 190 leases in respect of some 80,000m of space were signed or renewed.
New leases will generate additional annual dividend of 15.3 pence rents of 8.3 million, whilst the re-letting of expiring leases will add a further 1.4 million per annum.
The overall vacancy rate per share, making a total reduced from 3.4% at the beginning of the year to 1.8% at for 2007 of 27.3 pence, 31 December 2007.
Hammersons portfolio showed a total return of 5.4% for the year as an increase of 25.9% a whole, for which the capital return was 1.6%.
However, there were on last year.
contrasting performances between the first and second halves of the year.
In the six months to 30 June, the portfolio showed a capital return of 5.9%, whilst in the second half there was a negative return of 4.1%.
Following completion and letting, these schemes are projected In the UK, the valuers appraised the investment portfolio at to generate income of some 75 million, of which 28 million 31 December 2007 based on an overall equivalent yield of 5.4%, has already been contracted.
This will provide a further boost to some 52 basis points higher than that used for the valuation at income, particularly in 2009 and 2010.
The capital surplus from 30 June.
However, the groups success in increasing income and these schemes amounted to 227 million at 31 December 2007. rental values throughout the year offset around half of the potential Had these schemes been completed and fully let at the year end, reduction in value attributable to general market weakness.
an estimated additional surplus of 100 million would have been recorded.
In France, the groups portfolio continued to increase in value in the second half of the year with a capital return of 4.8% in the six months to 31 December 2007, making a total for the year of 16.5%.
Around two thirds of the increase in value was due to lower valuation yields and one third to increased income and rental values.
006 Annual Report 2007 Hammerson has been successful in recent years in having built conclusion up a very attractive pipeline of future development opportunities.
Hammerson has a robust business model and strong balance sheet.
Decisions to start individual projects will be based on projected Our retail and office portfolio is of the highest quality and we benefit financial returns, the market outlook and, where appropriate, the from our substantial investment in France.
This provides the potential level of pre-letting.
The cost of securing these opportunities has for further good income growth over the next three years, both been of the order of 260 million and the assets acquired provide from the existing investment assets and the current development a current income of around 4 million.
In total the pipeline could projects as they are completed and let.
involve investment of some 6 billion over the next decade in Our management team has an excellent record of delivering good retail and office schemes both in the UK and France.
returns from our real estate activities.
Notwithstanding the current BAlAnce sheet And finAncing uncertain market conditions, I am confident that we shall maintain Hammerson has followed a policy for many years of maintaining Hammersons progress in the future.
a strong balance sheet and avoiding undue concentration of debt maturities in a particular year.
Gearing at the year end was 57%, compared with 54% at the end of 2006.
During 2007 we arranged a new 340 million committed bank facility.
At the year end the weighted average maturity of the groups debt was 9 years and it had cash and undrawn facilities of 590 million.
senioR MAnAgeMent Grard Devaux, an Executive Director of Hammerson plc since 1999 and Managing Director of Hammerson Europe, will be retiring later this year.
Grard joined Hammerson France as General Manager in John Nelson, Chairman 1986.
Under his leadership the French business has increased in size 5 March 2008 from under 100 million to over 2 billion today and has consistently generated attractive returns for shareholders.
I would like to record the Boards appreciation to Grard for his distinguished service.
His responsibilities as Managing Director in France will be assumed by Christophe Clamageran who joins Hammerson France in March this year, following a successful 20 year career in real estate in Paris.
For the last 10 years he has held senior positions with BNP Paribas Real Estate, most recently as Deputy CEO.
