Chairmans Statement Man Investments overall sales for the year were a record $15.9 billion, helping drive assets under management up 24% to $61.7 billion.
Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report on what has been another non-executive Deputy Chairman and Group form which will allow shareholders to receive their Chief Executive respectively.
share of the proceeds as either income or capital, excellent year for the Man Group with pre-tax profit up 27% at $1,564 million.
Both Asset at their option.
The distribution will be subject to With regard to the first, we announced on shareholder approval and is expected to take Management and Brokerage have performed strongly, enabling us to achieve our key 30 March 2007 that the Group Board, after place in the fourth quarter of the calendar year.
a thorough review, had concluded that Man financial targets by delivering an increase in underlying earnings per share of 42% and Financial and Man Investments would be best The second significant development on 30 March positioned to maximise future returns and 2007 was Stanley Finks appointment as Deputy a post-tax return on equity of 31%.
growth opportunities by pursuing focused Chairman.
In the seven years of his tenure as Group independent strategies and having appropriate Chief Executive we have seen pre-tax profits grow Reflecting these results and our robust capital position the Board proposes a final dividend individual capital structures.
It is anticipated that from $181 million to $1,564 million: assets under both Man Group and MF Globals overall credit management from $4.7 billion to $61.7 billion: and of 12.7 cents payable at the rate of 6.42 pence per share for a total dividend for the year of rating will be as good as the existing Group the Groups market capitalisation from 1.3 billion ratings.
We therefore intend to separate the to 10.4 billion.
These numbers reflect a series 20.0 cents, an increase of 40%.
Additionally, during the year we bought back 44,019,161 Brokerage business, and believe that significant of remarkable accomplishments which have value will be created for Man Group shareholders both added substantial value for our shareholders shares at a total cost of $375 million under our rolling buyback programme.
Total shareholder from such a transaction.
The separation will be and helped change the shape of the investment effected by an initial public offering on the New management industry.
Many congratulations and return for the year to March 31 2007 was 38%, with an annual compound return of 25% per York Stock Exchange of a majority interest in thanks to Stanley for his outstanding contribution, the Brokerage business and this is intended and indeed to all of his executive team across annum over the last five years.
to take place in the third calendar quarter of the Group who have played a part in this success.
2007, subject to market conditions remaining Congratulations as well to Peter Clarke who starts In Asset Management, the year saw strong inflows and good performance for the industry.
his tenure as Chief Executive at a challenging and exciting time in the development of the Group Man Investments overall sales for the year were a record $15.9 billion, helping drive assets under Man Financial will be renamed MF Global with all of our best wishes for success.
with effect from the separation.
Kevin Davis, management up 24% to $61.7 billion.
Returns for our core investment managers during the currently Managing Director of Man Financial With respect to other Board changes, during will become CEO of MF Global, Chris Smith will the year we saw the departure of Jonathan year were mixed.
Although all contributed to performance fees over the year, the overall become COO and Deputy CEO and Amy Butte Nicholls on 20 July 2006 as a non-executive will be CFO.
The non-executive Chairman will director following his appointment as an level was less than last year, reflecting a lower contribution from AHL.
Overall for the division be Alison Carnwath.
executive director at Old Mutual plc.
We thank him for his contribution during his two pre-tax profit was up 13% to $1.3 billion.
We believe this separation from the Man Group years on the Board.
Effective 31 May 2007, will emphasise MF Globals commitment to we were pleased to welcome Kevin Hayes In Brokerage, Man Financial benefited from the combination of very active markets, a client base specialty brokerage and enhance its position to the Board as Finance Director, and wish as the largest specialty broker in its markets.
We him every success in his new role.
augmented by the fully integrated Refco business and continued strong organic expansion.
Together also believe that having a public trading market for its shares will enable it to offer more attractive Funds under management are currently estimated these developments drove higher volumes and strong growth in profitability with pre-tax profit consideration to potential acquisition targets and to be over $65 billion, up $3.5 billion since the end before exceptional items up 69% year-on-year.
to compensate its employees in a way that more of March, reflecting in particular, strong investment closely aligns their interests with the business.
performance and further sales momentum.
With At the close of the financial year there were two recent positive performance across our core significant developments the announcement of We have committed to distribute the net proceeds managers, and a strong pipeline of forthcoming our intention to separate the businesses, and the of the MF Global offering to our shareholders.
product initiatives, the Board is very confident appointments of Stanley Fink and Peter Clarke as It is expected that this distribution will be in a about the prospects for the coming year.
Harvey McGrath Chairman 05 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007
