04 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Chairmans statement Our Group Chief Executive, Richard I am delighted to report a year of outstanding Delivering on our commitments progress against the commitments we have Cousins, in his first full year in the role, Our performance reflects a clear, has put in place a strong leadership team given to improve returns to shareholders.
well-executed strategy, which is to lead the continued development and starting to deliver increased value implementation of our strategy, bringing in The objective of the strategy we communicated last year is to grow our business in a disciplined competencies in areas such as marketing and to our shareholders.
international clients to support the delivery way to deliver sustainable profit and growth.
This year represents an important first step in of our objectives and to help drive value from The introduction of MAP, our the combined strength of our global Group.
Management and Performance I have continued the programme I initiated We remain firmly focused on developing framework, has given us a common our core foodservice business, in which we to improve corporate governance and language and agenda resulting in controls.
Building on the progress we have see continued strong long-term growth greater focus and visibility across the opportunities in our chosen market sectors.
already made, our aim this year has been whole business.
We have delivered a reviewing and re-communicating Group Alongside this we are developing a range of policies and practices, with processes and step change in profit and free cash training to ensure that these are received complementary support services, which we are flow generation as new processes progressively bringing to market, prioritising and understood.
begin to embed throughout the those sectors and countries where our ability organisation.
Looking ahead, we to provide both food and support services will Over the last year we have further reviewed our corporate social responsibility strategy help us to develop our market.
In particular, believe we are entering a new phase we see a growing number of international CSR to ensure that we are addressing the of sustainable value creation, with broader social and environmental issues in clients who are looking for a service partner exciting opportunities to grow such as us who can deliver these services to the way that we run our business.
This revenues, improve margins and commitment is very much in evidence in consistently high standards, globally.
our day-to-day operations, forming a firm generate significant cash flow.
foundation to build on as we strive to The successful implementation of MAP has given us the framework to manage the continuously improve our CSR journey.
business with the intensity necessary to drive improved performance.
MAP is now wellWe have made good progress in the last year and, going forward, I will continue to take established in the businesses.
In the coming year we will be taking further steps to embed the necessary steps to ensure that we set the highest standards for corporate governance MAP even deeper into the organisation.
Sir Roy Gardner Chairman Full year dividend 10.8p 7% Compass Group share price performance vs FTSE 100 Index 2007 Pence Compass Group 400 FTSE 100 Index 375 350 325 300 275 250 29 09 29 11 29 01 29 03 29 05 30 07 28 09 2006 2006 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 The FTSE 100 Index has been rebased to the Compass Group share price on 29 September 2006 268.25 pence 05 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Returns to shareholders Management Our people The Board is proposing a final dividend On becoming Chairman I began the process On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank of 7.2 pence per share for payment in of reinvigorating the Board to achieve the all of our people around the world for their March 2008.
This brings our full year right blend of expertise, experience and commitment and efforts in achieving these dividend to 10.8 pence, a year on year strong independent scrutiny to guide the results and for the excellent service they increase of 7%.
decisions of the Board over managing and deliver daily: service that continues to earn growing the business in the best interests of the loyalty of our clients and consumers and In July this year we completed the sale of our shareholders.
reinforces our position as a leader in our Selecta, the European vending business, chosen markets.
for 772 million before transaction costs.
This has been achieved through an orderly succession plan and without compromising Outlook Of these proceeds we are using 500 million the effectiveness of the Board and its The results that we have reported for 2007 to extend our share buy-back programme.
demonstrate that we have the right strategy, This is in addition to the return of the right leadership and, through MAP, the 500 million to shareholders following Peter Blackburn, Peter Cawdron and Val right focus to capitalise on the considerable the sale of SSP in 2006, taking the total share Gooding have all stepped down from the opportunities that exist in our chosen markets.
As of Board in the last year and I would like to I believe that these results and the actions 30 September 2007 we had bought back thank each of them for the contribution we are taking give us a solid foundation on shares for cancellation to the value of they have made to the Group.
which to base sustainable performance 720 million.
improvements and deliver increasing value I am delighted that Sir Ian Robinson, Tim to our shareholders.
A further 45 million of the Selecta proceeds Parker, Sir James Crosby and Susan Murray have been contributed to Compass UK joined the Board as non-executive directors closed defined benefit pension plans, taking during the last 12 months, with Sir James the total amount of special contributions Crosby becoming the senior independent to these plans over the past 15 months to non-executive director.
Together with my 325 million, significantly reducing the other colleagues on the Board, I look forward pension deficit in these schemes.
to our new directors continued contribution Sir Roy Gardner to the deliberations of the Board.
Chairman The balance of the proceeds has been used 28 November 2007 to further reduce net debt.
In June we appointed Mark White as the Groups General Counsel and Company Secretary, a new role within the Group.
Mark, a qualified solicitor, has extensive international legal and business experience and joined us from Wolseley plc.
Focus on our contract Our strategy foodservice business We have a very clear and focused strategy, a significant market opportunity and a tight operating model with much improved controls and governance.
Grow our support services business Committed to giving our customers superior levels of service Focus on driving cost efficiencies
