11 warner estate holdings plc chairmans statement continued 10 10 w warner est arner esta ate holdings plc te holdings plc chairmans st chairmans sta atement continued tement chairmans statement continued chairmans statement continued c h a i r m a n s s t a t e m e n t Philip Warner Chairman This has been a year of Property under management, 1.8million performance fee, and continuing success and of including that wholly owned, rose operating margins improved for further significant change, from 2.5billion last March to both.
The Groups accounts show which together maintain the 3.2billion at the year end and goodwill of only 11million in momentum steadily built up that managed throughout the year respect of Ashtenne and nothing in over the last few years.
Net increased in value by 9%.
respect of Apia when clearly their asset value rose by 17% and the real worth is substantially more.
results overview total adjusted return was 18%, Properties under management, figures which evidence a first Conversion to a REIT has excluding those wholly owned, class performance.
Following brought the net asset value have risen in value from shareholder approval in March, calculation under International 2.14billion to 2.76billion at the the Group became a Real Financial Reporting Standards year end and those wholly owned Estate Investment Trust REIT IFRS much closer to the key from 0.34billion to 0.46billion, on 1 April 2007, immediately performance measure of triple boosted by the acquisition of following the year end, a net asset value used in prior years, JSRE.
The number of employees change which is not expected due to the elimination of most has increased from 187 to 202 and, to impinge upon our profitable of our deferred tax provisions.
following the Ashtenne Industrial strategy of co-investment Consequently, we shall, for this Funds successful bid for the and fund management.
year and in future, use the IFRS management of a 140million calculation which should reduce portfolio with the North West By converting, the Group will no the scope for confusion.
Development Agency, the number longer pay tax on REIT qualifying of regional offices has been Net asset value per share rose profits and gains, thereby removing increased to seven 2006: six.
by 17%, from 660p to 774p and from those profits the element of adjusted net asset value increased double taxation suffered by many Recurring pre-tax profits were to 800p.
The imminence up 14% to 18.1million 2006: out last year, these figures of conversion inspired our agreed 15.9million, mainly as result take little account of the bid and subsequent takeover of of increased performance fees contribution made by the fund JS Real Estate Plc JSRE, adding following the renegotiation of management business.
130million to our wholly owned asset management agreements.
portfolio and improving our Pre-tax profits have fallen from In particular, Ashtenne Asset London and South East weighting.
Management made a profit before tax and head office one way to keep recharges of 3.7million, without momentum going is a performance fee, Apia Asset Management on the same basis to have constantly made 2.6million, including a greater goals.
- M I C H A E L KO R D A 13 warner estate holdings plc chairmans statement continued 12 warner estate holdings plc chairmans statement continued chairmans statement continued chairmans statement continued During the year both the multiCapital expenditure is expected A significant proportion of this As noted above, these figures prospects strategy investor funds which we manage, to be in excess of 300million, reduction was due to lower include only 11million in respect The conversion to REIT status The outlook for the Group the Ashtenne Industrial Fund from which we anticipate realising fair value gain on investment of our fund management business.
has not changed the Groups remains promising.
Although, in AIF and the Apia Regional profit over the next four years.
properties including our share Adjusted gearing increased to strategy of building a co-investing the property market as a whole, Office Fund Apia, have beaten It is an objective of our of joint ventures of 29million 66% 2006: 48% and currently fund management business yield compression has all but their benchmarks, providing their development team not only to 2006: 56million.
Realised profits stands at 75% following the which complements its property ended and there are signs of investors with improving returns manage but also to extend the on the disposal of properties recently announced London office investment business.
REIT rules yields moving out on secondary and the Group with an improving development pipeline.
and investments were also down purchases, still comfortably below require at least 75% of assets and property, the entire thrust of the and profitable income stream, from 18million to 4million.
the Groups internal policy ceiling Our distribution warehouse joint profits to be REIT qualifying Groups strategy has been and is both as investor and as asset However, the change in the fair of 100%.
The Groups share of venture with Bank of Scotland, and although our profits from to take active steps to improve manager.
Both have continued to value of debt made a substantial debt within the funds and joint Radial, has been successful in fund management are not REIT property under management and expand, AIF from 986million contribution of 10million 2006: ventures was 412million 2006: growing during the year from thereby to maintain and increase to 1.3billion and Apia from loss of 2million, due to rises 348million, all of which is 180million to 304million.
Even if interest rates rise 417million to 501million, and in interest rates.
Interest was covered The objectives for this fund, in we have both further, as expected, they remain we expect further growth to bring A direct result of REIT 1.8 times 2006: 1.9 times by addition to continuing expansion, at historically low levels and the increased profits both to investors the capacity and conversion, including movement recurring profit before interest are to bring in new investors and underlying economic outlook and to the Group.
associated with joint ventures, was and tax.
to venture further across Europe.
Strong demand for the ambition a net positive impact, post tax, Our shopping centre joint property persists but if higher A more detailed analysis of the It remains our intention to of 20million from conversion ventures with Bank of Scotland, interest rates remove some buyers year will be found in the Reviews continue to build our fund for significant charges of 14million being more Agora Max and Agora, have from the market, opportunities for from the Property Director and management business through than offset by deferred taxation also risen in value but made no us to purchase improve, the more the Finance Director that follow expansion.
both the existing funds, where releases of 34million.
The Group purchases during the year although so should property yields move this statement.
the Group has asset management took the opportunity to repay it remains our intention for them out.
Property share prices may contracts, and the formation or The Board recommends a 7.7% high coupon debt at a cost of to do so as and when we see value qualifying we have both the have fallen in recent months but, acquisition of additional funds rise in dividends per share from 9million but with significant opportunity.
However we do capacity and the ambition for as these results illustrate, the value as dictated by research and 19.5p to 21p, the Companys 36th benefits in the form of lower see value in the one million sq.
of the Group continues to rise.
During the year successive annual increase.
development programme for the The acquisition of JSRE in the That value, derived from active we began purchasing offices in the last five years the dividend has existing shopping centre assets, wholly owned portfolio has management, depends upon the Recurring earnings per share Greater London and a further been raised by 7.6% per annum including those in our wholly benefited the REIT equation efforts of our staff.
I thank them were 30.5p 2006: 22.9p and joint venture was formed, this time compound, well above the rate owned portfolio.
providing a further reason for our on behalf of shareholders and I earnings per share, which include with Barclays Capital, to acquire of inflation.
The dividend is maintenance of a wholly owned remain confident they will ensure the fair value gains, were 129.3p two office buildings in the City covered 1.45 times by recurring investment portfolio on balance a further increase in value in the 2006: 140.2p.
earnings and, if approved at the sheet.
The wholly owned portfolio forthcoming year.
We would like to increase our Equity shareholders funds rose Annual General Meeting, the will continue to be a flexible investment in this sector and have from 351million to 433million final dividend per share of 11p investor with a view to using since the year end made more Philip Warner and adjusted equity shareholders will be paid on 21 September that freedom to pursue profitable Greater London office purchases.
Chairman funds increased by 64million to 2007 to shareholders on the opportunities in any sector A fund may follow.
After deducting for register at close of business on 24 and to provide the seed corn the 21.4million of equity raised August 2007.
REIT conversion for new funds.
shareholders in January 2007 to help fund the will support the Boards policy As referred to above, 21.5million purchase of JSRE, this represents of paying a progressive and above was raised during March through an increase of 11% after dividends.
the placing of additional stock This Company has always with a group of institutional sought to distribute income as a shareholders.
This transaction reasonable part of its total return continues the trend started last to shareholders and the REIT year of broadening the Groups requirement to pay out at least shareholder base.
90% of REIT profits will reinforce that policy.
15 warner estate holdings plc property review continued 14 warner estate holdings plc property review continued property review continued property review continued i t i s n o t o f i m p o r t a n c e w h e r e w e s t a n d, b u t i n w h a t d i r e c t i o n w e a r e m o v i n g. - O L I V E R W E N D E L L H O L M E S
