Section 1 Driving our Annual Report and 04 Workspace Group PLC business forward Accounts 2007 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I am pleased to report upon another year return outperformed the 15.8% reported for who has been Finance Director since joining of progress by your Company.
On a geared basis, the Group in 1995, has advised of his wish to shareholder value was enhanced with net combining this growth with earnings for retire after 12 years excellent service.
asset value per share up 43% to 3.40 the year yielded a total return on equity of A replacement for Mark, Graham Clemett, assisted by our conversion to a REIT.
This is a stronger has been identified.
Graham, who is the shareholder return was 51% for the year performance than anticipated mainly due to Finance Director, Corporate Banking of with 49% and 34% per annum over three and the continued growth in capital values, the Royal Bank of Scotland will join the Company five year periods.
pace of which we had expected to dampen later this summer.
Angus Boag has joined this year.
It is pleasing to note that this value the Executive Committee as Development This has been a very active year both in appreciation is now being driven mainly by Director.
Angus was previously Managing the core business and through two major rental improvements rather than just yield Director of Manhattan Loft Corporation.
corporate changes the creation of the reductions.
The Groups rent roll excluding joint venture with Glebe and the conversion the joint venture properties increased by We have a strong and loyal team at to a REIT.
18.7% to 47.2m with 1.7m of the increase Workspace and as the business develops arising from improvements in the rental the Board ensures we continue both to At a time when sustainable regeneration levels in the core portfolio.
With market rental develop the talent within the business and is a priority on the national and London levels ERVs rising up 4.92% on a like-forto strengthen this with judicious external agenda, our business model has never been like basis then this trend is set to continue.
appointments to add new skills.
so relevant to the community in which we are based.
Added value On behalf of the Board, I extend our thanks We announced with our results last year to all our staff once again.
Our focused strategy our entry into the joint venture with Glebe.
Our strategy is to focus on Greater London, This was a new initiative for us, facilitating our Current trading to focus on providing space for small and participation in the regeneration of certain of Enquiries and lettings have continued at medium sized enterprises SMEs, and to our and Glebes assets to a fuller extent than the strong levels recorded last year and the focus on non-prime properties.
The joint venture has worked well rent roll has, as a result, increased since the our skills add the greatest value.
At the heart so far with good progress being made as year end.
Against this, interest rates have of this focus are two fundamental factors, the our first three projects progress through the continued to increase and, as a result, it selection of London and the SME sector.
Your design and planning process: all of which seems likely that the combined effect of this Board continues to believe that the growth are showing increased densities over those and the cost of servicing acquisitions will prospects in London are very considerable originally envisaged.
Since entering the impact on trading earnings in the current and that the SME community is integral to Glebe joint venture we have refocused our year.
Despite this, we consider that it this growth of the city.
We create value by attentions on the retained balance of our remains in shareholders interests for the acquiring space with potential, by driving portfolio, seeking out opportunities for Group to continue to acquire property where occupancy and rents through our operational improvement in these and have recently good medium long-term returns may be and marketing skills, and then enhancing appointed a Development Director to lead anticipated.
Growing rentals, both those value through intensification and higher this.
As explained in last years Sustainability passing now and market rent levels ERVs, added value use often acting as a catalyst Review, much of what we are doing runs should continue to support valuation growth and prime mover for more widespread with the grain of the Mayors Plan for London.
However, it is unlikely that regeneration in an area.
We consider that any business that operates the contribution to valuation surpluses in line with the social and economic from yield reductions will continue and so Higher interest rates and tighter yields on environment in which it is located is truly growth will be driven principally by these acquisitions have put pressure on shortsustainable and that this should favour rental improvements and our value adding term trading profits and the ability to acquire the advancement of our plans and proposals.
This we property on immediate accretive terms.
believe should be a significant differentiator Despite this, we continue to acquire where REITs in portfolio performance going forward.
we see good long-term value.
We have Your Board resolved that it was in the interest increased our emphasis on extracting of shareholders to convert to a Real Estate Dividend greater value from the intensification of Investment Trust REIT and, following an A final distribution of 2.76 pence per share, sites.
The formation of the joint venture with EGM in December 2006 at which the Groups making a total of 4.14 pence per share for Glebe reflects this but additionally, allowed articles of association were amended to the year, once again a 10% increase on the us to fide-gear as interest rates rose.
facilitate this, the Group converted on previous year, is proposed.
In addition to the taxation Results benefits, this transition has increased the Net Asset Value per share grew by 43% to profile of the Company and shows potential 3.40 per share Diluted Adjusted Net Asset for assisting corporate acquisitions in the Value by 11.6% to 3.36 per share.
A more detailed commentary is back the exceptional REIT conversion charge given on this later.
This growth was driven by a 95.3m valuation surplus, Board and staff a 10.5% increase in value.
Against the IPD During the year Rupert Dickinson Chief Investment Property Databank industry Tony Hales Executive of Grainger Plc joined the Board benchmark measure, our 16.3% annual as a non-executive director.
Mark Taylor, Chairman Section 1 Driving our Annual Report and 05 Workspace Group PLC business forward Accounts 2007 Total shareholder return performing above our peer group Total shareholder return TSR was 51% for the year and was 34% over a five year period.
This compares to a 21% one year TSR for the FTSE Real Estate index and 18% for the FTSE 250.
51% Workspace one year relative share price TONY HALES 200 Chairman 175 150 125 100 75 50 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Workspace five year relative share price 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Apr 02 Apr 03 Apr 04 Apr 05 Apr 06 Apr 07 Workspace FTSE 250 FTSE Small Cap FTSE All Share FTSE Real Estate IPD comparison % 30 20 10 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 0 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Workspace return Difference IPD March Universe return
