Chairmans statement Dairy Crest performed well in the year closely with Sainsburys to set up the ended March 2007 and reported a 24% Sainsburys Dairy Development Group increase in adjusted profit before taxation whose Dairy Crest producers have to 80.5 million from 64.8 million last recently received a 1.3 pence per litre year, revenue of 1,377.8 million increase in their farmgate milk price.
including share of joint ventures and Drummond Hall retired as Chief adjusted earnings per share of 48.7 Executive at the end of December 2006. pence.
Reported profit before taxation I would like to thank Drummond for his from continuing operations was considerable contribution to Dairy Crest 64.6 million up 68% on last year.
Throughout his This financial year has been one of time with Dairy Crest Drummond played significant progress for the Group.
We a key role in developing the Groups completed three major transactions successful strategy to grow the branded which have delivered a strong uplift in and added value side of the business.
In August 2006 we acquired As part of a planned succession process, Express Dairies to create the UKs leading Mark Allen, previously Executive doorstep and middle ground business.
Managing Director of the Dairies Division, In October 2006, as part of our strategy was appointed as Chief Executive with to focus on branded cheese, we sold the effect from 1 January 2007.
Mark has substantial majority of our retailer brand been a key member of a strong We completed cheese operations to First Milk and in management team for a number of years, January 2007 we made a significant has had major roles across both the three major overseas move with the acquisition of Dairies and Foods Divisions and has St Hubert, the French and Italian spreads been on the Board since 2002. transactions business, from Uniq plc.
Martin Oakes was appointed as The Board is recommending an Executive Managing Director, Dairies which have increase in the final dividend of 6.6% to Division and as a member of the PLC 16.2 pence per share.
This together with board, with effect from 1 February 2007. delivered the interim dividend of 6.7 pence makes He joined the company after spending six a total dividend for the year of 22.9 years with Somerfield Stores where he a strong uplift pence per share, an increase of 6.5%.
was Group Logistics and IT Director.
The Board remains committed to Martin is already adding value to the in profitability a progressive dividend policy.
development of the Group with his We have continued to work closely wide-ranging business, logistics and this year with our milk suppliers and in retail experience.
particular, Dairy Crest Direct, our direct David Dugdale has decided not to Group and wish them well for the future.
We are seek re-election as a non-executive Our successful outcome this year supportive of the continued trend director at the Annual General Meeting in is not only a reflection of the significant towards dedicated milk pools for July and will retire from the Board after strategic progress made but also a result individual retailers.
These provide the over five years.
Gerry Grimstone, who of the dedication and hard work of all security of supply that producers require has been a non-executive director since our employees.
to make investment choices for the 1999, has also indicated that he wishes future.
Dairy Crest has been at the to retire from the Board later this year forefront of the development of due to other business commitments.
segregated milk pools for Waitrose and However, Gerry has committed to stay on Marks & Spencer which have both paid the Board until a suitable replacement is market leading prices to producers for found.
We thank both David and Gerry Simon Oliver Chairman many years.
This year we have worked for their exceptional contributions to the 21 May 2007 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 3
