Chairmans statement This has been a very strong year for the Group and the continued strength of our cash generation gives us confidence to invest in the business further.
David Newlands Chairman Dear fellow shareholders, Outlook Overall trading since the year end has remained positive and we expect Welcome to the fourth Annual report for Kesa Electricals.
this trend to continue, although at a lower rate than last year.
This has been a very good year for the Group, and I am particularly We anticipate that sales will again be led by the strong new technology pleased that all of our established specialist electrical retailing businesses, product cycle and that the small growth of the white goods market Darty, Comet, BCC, Vanden Borre and Datart, increased their revenues will continue.
It is also important to note that all these businesses gained share in their markets.
We will strive to maintain margins by focusing on cost control and productivity gains in logistics.
We will drive cash generation and accelerate I am also pleased with Kesas continued focus on cash generation.
investment in our existing businesses, with particular emphasis on Cash generated from operations in the year was 307.9 million.
Dartys new services and Comets mezzanine store opening programme, Over the last four years since demerger, this strong free cash flow has and developing the three new businesses in Italy, Switzerland and enabled our net debt to be reduced from 368 million to 75.4 million.
Whilst this will have a short-term impact on earnings growth and cash flow, it will provide additional growth for the Group in the future.
The successful application of our trading philosophy, which is based on the three principles of Best Price, Best Choice, Best Service, to our Year-end change businesses in Holland, Belgium and the Czech Republic, coupled with We have decided to move the Groups financial year end from the strength of our cash generation, have given management the 31 January to 30 April, effective for the 15-month period to 30 April confidence to invest in the business further.
Given the seasonality of our business, the 31 January year end means that our peak trading period falls within the final quarter of our We have always said that Kesa would take advantage of opportunities financial year.
This creates a number of operational and forecasting to sell innovative products and services and to pursue expansion in issues, not least the major distraction of finalising budgets and plans existing markets while investigating other opportunities in selected for the following year during our busiest trading period.
Last year we were particularly active: an April year end will allow management to focus on the most important trading period of our year without other distractions.
At Darty, paid for services were successfully introduced, as well as launching Darty Box, a triple play proposition.
Outline timetables for the financial reporting transitional arrangements Comet accelerated the store refurbishment programme with and intended dividend payments are available on our website.
Let me the introduction of trading mezzanine floors where appropriate.
assure you we intend to make three dividend payments covering the At BUT, the continuing store relay programme and the 15-month period on approximately the same dates to those we have repositioning of the furniture offer improved performance.
paid historically and, profits allowing, at similar levels.
More new stores were both opened and acquired for Darty Italy as we continued to expand this fledgling business and the first store Finally, I would like to extend my thanks to everyone in the business under the Darty brand in Turkey was opened ahead of schedule.
for all their hard work and dedication without which we would not have made so much progress in one year.
After absorbing most of the costs of the above activities in our profits we were able to increase revenues by 9.8 per cent to 4.5 billion and pre-tax profits by 15.4 per cent to 165 million.
Basic earnings per share rose by 16.3 per cent to 20.7 pence.
Overall, Kesa has delivered excellent results and, reflecting our confidence in our future, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 10.05 pence per share making a total for the year of 13.3 pence, an increase of 9.9 per cent on last year.
David Newlands Chairman Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 5
