CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DEBENHAMS IS A REALLY STRONG BUSINESS AND WE PRIZE OUR STATUS AS ONE OF THE WORLDS MOST ADMIRED AND SUCCESSFUL DEPARTMENT STORE GROUPS AS WE CONTINUE TO STYLE THE NATION.
shopping experience which does justice JOHN LOVERING Chairman to our designer merchandise.
In some product categories we faced a marked pick-up in high street price deflation last year, brought about by the rapid growth of discounters.
On occasions we were not offering customers the value for money for which our business is known.
This was especially true in menswear.
In addition our fashion and style leadership in menswear and some womens clothing was challenged by re-awakening Let me tell you how I see the current competition.
Whilst it was hard for us and future position of our Company.
to address this in the Spring Summer 21.2% The board of directors is very proud season as the buying process had been of Debenhams and what has been completed, we have since acted.
We are Growth in sales over the past three years.
achieved in the business over the last now confident that the Autumn Winter few years.
I want to assure you that ranges are on trend, correctly priced we have the long-term future and and available in depth.
As a result we value of our business at the core of all are now competitive in terms of style, our thinking and actions.
The reinvestment required to achieve this may have cost Debenhams is a really strong business some margin but it is certainly the right and we prize our status as one of the long-term decision.
worlds most admired and successful department store groups as we Finally, the board must ensure we have continue to style the nation.
the right team in place to move the business forward.
The Chief Executives report spells out how we performed last year.
I want to We have undertaken a thorough review talk about three very important issues: of our buying and merchandising investment in the store environment, operations.
Several people have left our product range and our people.
the business but, more importantly, we have attracted a raft of talent from From 2004 to 2006 our capital spending across the high street and promoted was directed towards acquiring and many of our high potential middle re-branding the Allders and Roches and senior managers.
We also accelerated our store re-energised and ready for the future.
opening programme, launched Desire, In stores, we have appointed three new invested in our online offering and regional sales directors alongside 25 expanded our international operations.
new store managers during the year.
In 2007 we needed to turn our attention Internal promotion combined with to reinvesting in our older stores, some external recruitment has generated an of which were beginning to look a little excellent mix of ambition and experience.
We are now working our way through the estate and will spend We have had a tough year.
It has been a substantial amount of this years painful but we are stronger after the 150 million capital budget on the sharp message we received from our refurbishment of existing stores.
We have made operational Within the next 18 months we expect changes but we will not be deflected to have refitted most of the chain so from our long-term strategic aims.
that we will be able to offer all our We should also be proud of what we customers a modern, hassle-free achieved.
We made an EBITDA margin Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 4 Section 1 Overview Below: Our re-sited store in Exeter, opened in September 2007.
The new store provides a dramatically improved shopping experience for our customers and increases trading space by 31,000 sq ft.
Above: The new and exclusive Jeff Banks Jeans collection for menswear, launched this Autumn.
Part of a major initiative to ensure that our menswear offer is competitive in terms of style, quality and value.
of 12.6 per cent after full market rent and refits.
Our gross margin is increasing.
not many rivals can come close to that.
We have some world class competitors 14.2% We have grown sales by 21.2 per cent for the customers purse in a tough over three years and we have secured market.
The internet is a real rival to the Planned increase in footage over the next three years.
new space to increase our footage by high street and as everyone knows the 14.2 per cent over the next three years.
macro economy will get more difficult.
History says that department stores are Our direction is set.
Space expansion more resilient and less volatile through through new department stores, the roll the economic cycle.
We know that the out of our Desire small store format and best management teams who are our overseas franchise programme working hardest and listening most to continues.
Our multi-channel business, their customers will win and progress.
benefiting from our new website, is It is my job on your behalf to make sure showing strong sales and profit growth.
that this description fits Debenhams.
We have every confidence in our I would like to thank all of my colleagues business and our people.
Against that throughout the business whose efforts backdrop the board is recommending and commitment last year and every a final dividend of 3.8 pence per share year mean that we have the best chance to make a first full year dividend for the of achieving this objective.
Company of 6.3 pence per share.
John Lovering We have started the new financial year Chairman in good shape.
Like-for-like sales in the first seven weeks were up 2.1 per cent 23 October 2007 excluding Roches despite the disruption from a high number of stores undergoing Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 5 Section 1 Overview
