2 Diageo Annual Report 2007 Truly global Chairmans statement A business that consistently produces Guinness and our range of beers including Dr Franz Humer.
Franz has an exceptional record excellent results and a business that Harp, Tusker and Windhoek are central to our in the leadership of global businesses, including consistently does the right thing business in Africa.
These products are deeply Glaxo Holdings and Roche.
rooted in the communities where our consumers This has been a most encouraging year for live, work and celebrate.
As many of these are Before that I look forward to a further year of Diageo, our shareholders, our employees and places facing water shortages, Diageo has Diageo reaching new success and achievements.
for all those whose lives are touched by our established a goal of bringing clean drinking That will be accomplished with the continued business.
Our very strong financial results and water to a million people.
support of our outstanding employees and our the performance that delivered them are highly successful relationships with suppliers, detailed elsewhere in this Annual Report.
Yet it is Our commitment extends to every aspect of customers and distributors.
To all of them appropriate for me to observe that the business the way we do business.
It is reflected in our I offer my grateful thanks for our success in climate in which that performance has been determination to meet the highest standards the year covered by this report.
And to you, delivered is becoming increasingly complex of probity and transparency.
It is our intention our shareholders, I extend those thanks for and frequently much more testing.
to build a business that is enduring.
A business your continued support of our endeavours.
that consistently produces excellent results and Diageo trades in more than 180 markets and a business that consistently does the right thing.
in almost every one, the dynamic of the debate on alcohol in society is different.
We welcome It is 10 years since Diageo was created.
In that it and we respect the differing views it provokes.
time our board has developed in strength and We do all we can to contribute by advocating diversity.
Today it brings together business and demonstrating the case for alcohol and leaders with a truly global pedigree.
see the latest stage in that evolution when Lord Blyth of Rowington on 1 July 2008 I hand the chair of Diageo to Chairman That commitment to responsible use of alcohol extends much further than simply debating the case for effective and equitable regulation.
We are also actively involved in a myriad of programmes and initiatives designed to promote responsible drinking.
In North America these include our support for the widely admired activities of The Century Council.
We have also supported legislation for automatic licence revocation.
These measures which automatically confiscate the driving licence of adults who buy alcohol for people under 21 4 have been passed in eight states and are an effective deterrent to underage drinking.
Across Business areas that make up Diageos the world the Johnnie Walker sponsorship of regional focus: North America, Europe, International and the newly organised Team Vodafone McLaren Mercedes in Grand Prix Asia Pacific motor racing goes from strength to strength, with a major commitment to responsible drinking at its heart.
For the ICC Cricket World Cup, held in the Caribbean, the Johnnie Walker Know Your Boundaries programme promoted the cause of responsible drinking.
It also offered the prospect of major community support for outstanding achievement.
When South Africas Herschelle Gibbs became the first batsman to hit six sixes in an over during an international match, this triggered a $1 million donation from Diageo to Habitat for Humanity.
Many corporations, big and small, can point to very significant community programmes.
Few, however, can match Diageo in the way that those programmes are central to the marketing of our products, to the way we do business and to the sustained commitment of our employees, customers and distributors to ensure that our business is conducted responsibly.
