Chairmans letter Jeremy Ord 2007 was another year of excellent performance by the Group.
Every region delivered positive results underpinned by increased margins and improved Group cash holdings.
Europe improved its financial performance on all fronts.
Africa experienced strong growth driven by infrastructure expansion by telecommunication service providers and government.
Americas experienced a strong second half after a slow start to the year.
Australia also delivered strong profits.
In Asia we continued the positive trend toward healthier margins by increasing IT services sales.
On the back of this solid performance, we are pleased to propose to shareholders that the Group increase its dividend to 1.5 US cents per share.
While we maintained a steadfast focus on execution, healthy market conditions also supported our growth during the year.
IT growth rates in all markets were strong and our global footprint and local execution capabilities continue to enhance our positioning.
Consolidation in the systems integration market also provided opportunities for market share gains as competitors focused on post-merger activities.
The continued deregulation of telecommunications within many countries offered new opportunities and will continue to make this sector and service providers highly attractive for the Group.
While market opportunities remain robust, our ability to convert these into revenue is reliant on our talented employee base.
Salary pressures and competition for 8 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 cause and effect observing the market and acting fast talent contributed to a highly competitive employment Subsequently we sold 60% to a group comprising a market particularly for experienced, technical Black Economic Empowerment consortium and employees and recruitment and retention remained VenFin.
a top priority during the year.
Our technology partnerships with industry leaders like Cisco and Microsoft continue to benefit us and our The alignment of our employee incentive programmes to clients by providing early access to the latest technology the financial performance of the Group is critical to advancements and products.
The strength of our combating competitive pressures for top talent.
To this partnerships directly benefits our clients as we are wellend, Dimension Data continued to invest in its Share positioned to help them navigate through an ever Appreciation Rights Scheme SARS and Long Term increasing array of technologies and vendors.
The first SARS and LTIP instruments issued during 2005 are eligible for vesting at We enter our 25th anniversary year in 2008 as a strong, vibrant business.
To have reached a quarter century in the end of 2007, and I am pleased to report that the the IT industry is a significant achievement.
performance criteria for the first SARS instruments, based on the cumulative three year earnings of the The future looks promising, the Group has maintained Group, have been met.
excellent focus and our ability to deliver and provide support continues to grow and prosper.
Whilst market While our primary strategy is one of organic growth, the conditions are robust at present, we are very aware of Group completed several joint venture agreements, the turbulence in some of our major market sectors and acquisitions and disposals.
In Asia we entered into a are keeping a close watch on all the important indicators joint venture agreement with Sumisho Joho Corporation in our business.
We opened offices in Saudi Arabia and United Id like to thank our employees, executive management Arab Emirates and subsequently renamed our Africa team, clients, and technology partners for their ongoing region, Middle East and Africa.
We extended our North commitment and dedication to Dimension Data, without American region into the Americas by acquiring a which our success would not have been possible.
controlling interest in our Brazilian partner and opening I would also like to thank our Board for their continued offices in Mexico and Canada.
In Europe, we opened support in creating a Group that we can all be extremely operations in the Czech Republic through the acquisition proud of.
of Unreal Technology and sold our operations in Sweden.
We established a new software holdings company, Britehouse, and transferred our interest in Jeremy Ord Pebbletree, 3Fifteen and Paracon into this company.
Chairman Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 9
