Group Overview Chairmans Statement Many of our businesses performed well this year.
However, the Groups overall performance was marred by losses in Italy and France.
No excuses will be made for the performance in these two countries and important lessons have been learned.
With these in mind, we focus on growing your Group into an international business delivering the returns to you that it is capable of.
In the case of UniEuro in Italy we are determined that the business will return to profit, and a new management team has an appropriate plan to do so with the right sense of urgency.
In France the main problem was in finding sites for our stores that allowed fair competition with established players.
PIXmania, our e-commerce business, is doing well in France and this is how we will now compete and grow in this important market.
Sir John Collins The Nordic countries maintained their record of delivering or bettering their Chairman targets and both the management and the stores remain a valued asset to the Group.
Currys in the UK outperformed its peers in its profit growth with earnings up by nearly 30 per cent and it managed a tough market astutely.
The businesses both in Ireland and UK airports delivered good results.
digital on the A year of High Street successfully transitioned from the Dixons brand and improved its contribution.
PC World grew its share against resurgent competition.
PC City significant Spain moved into profit, and sister companies in Italy and Sweden made good progress.
Kotsovolos in Greece did well and Electro World in Central Europe is change moving in the right direction.
An important milestone was reached with our business in the Czech Republic moving into profitability for the first time.
The launch of The TechGuys further differentiates our service to customers and is a very important initiative for the Group.
Our ambition to be a major player in electricals through the internet led to the acquisition of PIXmania.
The company, based in Paris, operates in 26 countries in Europe and, together with Dixons.
co. uk, delivered strong revenue growth and positions us well in this fast growing sector.
The warehouse and control issues at PIXmania have now been resolved and measures have been put in place to avoid any repetition.
Operational efficiency improved further with the opening of major new warehouses in Newark in the UK and in Piacenza in Italy.
International buying became a reality, and we further strengthened relationships with our principal suppliers.
Our balance sheet remains ungeared and is a major strength for expansion as and when the right opportunities appear.
We have acted responsibly in accounting for the full effects of exiting PC City in France and the impairment of UniEuro in Italy.
Our priority over the new financial year is to grow earnings.
Improving customer service remains a priority.
Staff training and development, the move to team bonuses, the launch of The TechGuys and the introduction of reserve and collect facilities are just some of the actions we have been taking this year to deliver on this.
We also continue to encourage and increase the interchange of people between the countries in which we operate.
6 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Group Overview We again reviewed Board performance, and identified scope for further concentrating debate and discussion on key issues.
Written briefings serve well with the executive directors taking questions for clarification.
The Nominations, Remuneration and Audit Committees dealt with a variety of issues during the year.
Since the period end the Nominations Committee managed the Group Chief Executive succession.
The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The UK Governments adoption of the WEEE directive required considerable planning to collect spent electrical goods from July 2007.
Initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, in our own case principally through more efficient use of transport, is gaining momentum.
The same applies to energy efficiency.
The four charities supported by The DSG international Foundation under our Switched on Communities initiative satisfied us that the money is being well spent and that technology and training can radically improve the quality of life.
Geoffrey Budd the Company Secretary retired after 38 years with the Group.
We thank him for the excellence of his work and wish him well as Chairman of the Trustee Board of our UK pension scheme.
As we announced in May, John Clare our Group Chief Executive will retire later this year.
Alongside Stanley Kalms and Mark Souhami, John has shaped this great company of ours.
Among his many achievements was the creation of Freeserve and PC World, the move to large out of town stores for both PC World and Currys and our international expansion.
He has also opened the door to the internet.
He leaves the Group well positioned and we thank John and his wife Anne and wish them happiness and continued success for the future.
We welcome John Browett to lead the Group through the next phase of our development.
He has the pedigree, the experience and the energy to succeed.
I thank all our staff for their hard work and commitment to the Group in a testing year.
Sir John Collins Chairman DSG international plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
