Page 3 Chairmans introduction ver the last twelve months, we have delivered on key electric models, most notably the new programmable ranges and, objectives: completed the successful sale of Foodservice for Rayburn and Stanley towards carbon-neutral wood burning Ofor a good price: paid a special dividend of 55.6 million lines.
The year also saw our cookware operations from Aga and and prepared for the substantial cash return of 140 million to Divertimenti continue to progress well, accounting for 9.5 million shareholders: put in place the long-term financial structure for the in revenues.
Group Pension Scheme: developed a new name and corporate Rangemaster had an excellent year, with volumes over 7% ahead identity for the Group: appointed a new chairman: and set a clear at 76,000 units.
The rapid internationalisation of the business growth strategy for the focused consumer business.
continued, accounting for over 21% of sales with the Irish and, in This all followed the decision of the board to sell the Foodservice particular, the French markets growing strongly.
These operations had been carefully built up over 6 growth achieved together with the pipeline of new cooking years, and now needed to develop further through international products made for the Rangemaster, Falcon, La Cornue and reach and scale.
When the likelihood of ourselves driving change Heartland brands add up to a considerable success story.
in the sector receded, we concluded that shareholders interests In the USA the consumer markets were difficult.
Marvel, after a were best served through their sale.
This was achieved at a good strong 2006, saw volumes fall during the year.
The development price of 265 million on an attractive exit multiple, particularly as of a new generation of Marvel products means that Marvel is well financial markets tightened.
placed within the premium appliance sector, particularly in the During 2007 the continuing business performed satisfactorily with outdoor market which has the potential to deliver sustained Rangemaster again achieving record sales and profits.
Aga Heartland is optimistic that the growing recognition of the continuing business rose by 4.7% to 291.8 million 5.7% of our cooking products in North America will enable sales growth at constant exchange rates.
EBITDA in the year was 39.8 million to be achieved after a tough 2007.
Operating profit excluding net pension credits was 25.0 million, up from 24.3 million in the prior year.
Return of cash to shareholders Profit before interest and tax including net pension credit was In 2001, following the sale of the Groups Pipe Systems business, 31.0 million 2006: 28.3 million.
The interest charge of 3.4 335 million was returned to shareholders.
Following the disposal million reflects the marked changes in the cash position in the of our Foodservice operations, we are now proposing a cash year with the payment of the special dividend in June increasing return of 140 million by way of a B C share scheme, which is debt levels at the half year to 79.7 million before the cash receipts intended to give holders, where eligible under their prevailing from the sale of Foodservice, completed in December 2007, left tax regime such as in the UK, the flexibility so far as possible to us with net cash of 169.1 million at the year end.
Earnings per receive the cash either as income or capital or as a combination of share from continuing operations were 19.4 pence per share the two.
The total value of the return will equate to approximately compared with 16.5 pence per share in 2006.
The Foodservice 121 pence per existing ordinary share.
The board intends that the business made an operating profit after allocated corporate costs market price of the Companys ordinary shares will, subject to of 14.6 million in 2007 and the reported book profit on their sale, market movements, be approximately equal before and after the taking into account intangibles, was 30.7 million.
return and, accordingly, the board is also proposing a share consolidation in conjunction with the return of cash.
After the Trading performance continuing operations return and the accompanying share consolidation, the balance Aga, Rayburn and Stanley saw leads and home surveys remain at sheet will remain in a strong position.
The proposed return of cash good levels throughout the year.
Volumes were ahead at the half is subject to approval by shareholders at an Extraordinary General year but did slow at the end of 2007 as consumer markets Meeting to be held on 9th May 2008.
In addition, we are paying a tightened leaving volumes in the year marginally down at 19,600. final ordinary dividend of 7.65 pence per share based on the Within the overall numbers the trend continued towards our number of shares in issue prior to the consolidation, which makes AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 4 Chairmans introduction the total 2007 dividend 11.5 pence.
The proposed final ordinary for sales of cast iron cookers to exceed the current level of 19,600 and special payments, totalling approximately 129 pence per and sales of range cookers to exceed the current level of 76,000. existing share, will be made in May 2008.
With respect to future Improving returns of Fired Earth and Grange: These two brands dividends, we expect to keep our long-term policy to have a fully accounted for a sixth of revenue in 2007 but were not profitable.
taxed dividend cover of around 2.5 times.
We have implemented a turnaround programme and are aiming Including the proposed return of cash, the Group will have returned for a return on sales of at least 5% in three years.
614 million including 74 million in ordinary dividends since the Growing overseas sales: 37% of revenue classified by geographic sale of Pipe Systems, and this reflects our determined efforts over destination is outside the UK with particular strength in France, a long period to optimise returns for shareholders.
We aim to increase this to nearer 50% in the longer term through increased displays, expanded sales teams and Pension scheme arrangements improved marketing.
We are pleased that we have agreed a framework with the Pension Investing in marketing and CRM: In 2008 we will increase marketing Fund Trustee that establishes a funding framework for the Scheme spend, directing resources to where they will have most effect.
I feel that this agreement is in the interests of members addition, we will continue to develop and use our database of old and current, and is also in the interests of the Company and 800,000 to build strong and profitable relationships with our shareholders.
The Pension Scheme is covered in more depth in the customers to increase customer lifetime value.
Richard Eagleton, chief executives review.
our new Group marketing director, will drive these projects.
Reducing costs: We are exploring a number of cost improvement Board and management structure programmes including specification changes, sourcing more This is my last statement as chairman as I retire at the AGM from efficiently and plant efficiency upgrades.
We believe there will be the board which I first joined in 2000.
The Group is at an exciting a benefit of 3 million per annum starting in 2008.
This will help point at which much hard work is set to pay off.
I feel particularly absorb the 2 million overhead costs previously absorbed by pleased that over the years we have developed and helped to Foodservice.
create a strong commercial structure for all our continuing businesses.
We are delighted that John Coleman has joined the We believe that we have the products and routes to market to board and will become non-executive chairman after the AGM.
We have committed substantial John was chief executive of House of Fraser and is a non-executive resources to product development and have the capacity to director of Travis Perkins plc.
His long corporate experience, work support our plans in both manufacturing and sourcing terms.
with premium brands and in retail will assist in the drive to achieve the Groups performance targets.
There have been other changes Current trading and outlook to the management structure.
We have established an executive Orders at the start of 2008 have been encouraging for our major committee including the managing directors of Aga and businesses, although some of the economies in which we operate Rangemaster, the Group manufacturing director and the new head are clearly slowing.
This year the price increase for Aga was on 1st of marketing.
We are grateful to our former colleagues who joined March and this helped stimulate demand.
Rangemaster has seen the Ali Group and in particular to Stephen Rennie, who made a growth continuing and order intake is up 5% so far this year.
great contribution as chief operating officer for over six years.
Encouragingly, Fired Earths orders are up nearly 10%.
In the US, Marvel has seen orders fall so far this year by around 20% while Growth strategy Aga Heartland is ahead.
The Group is adjusting to its new scale We have now chosen to focus on our exciting range of consumer and focus and expects its cost cutting initiatives to assist in the brands led by Aga and Rangemaster the brand names out of current drive to achieve a higher return on sales.
which we propose to create the name of the Group from the AGM The Love Aga and the Rangemaster Essential Ingredient in May 2008.
Led by Aga and Rangemaster our brands include themes are already becoming powerful campaigns for us, and are Divertimenti, Falcon, Fired Earth, Grange, Heartland, La Cornue, indicative of our optimistic mood in spite of the very uncertain Leisure, Marvel, Northland, Rayburn, Stanley and Waterford.
economic backcloth against which we are working.
We have We propose to grow the business through five measurable delivered on the key objectives set for 2007 and, as the new Aga strands: Increasing sales of Aga and Rangemaster: improving Rangemaster Group, we can expect further progress in 2008. returns of Fired Earth and Grange: growing overseas sales: investing in marketing and customer relationship management CRM : and reducing costs.
This is with the aim of increasing the return on sales to nearer 12% excluding pension credits in the longer term.
Increasing sales of Aga and Rangemaster: In recent years significant Vic Cocker CBE, investment has been made resulting in products that are more Chairman.
innovative, flexible and efficient than ever before.
We are aiming 14th March 2008 AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
