Chairmans Statement The considerable potential to build on the Groups existing base gives me confidence for the future.
Since becoming Chairman of DS Smith in January, In the light of the Groups recent positive developments I have spent time extending my understanding of the and the potential to build on its strengthened position, Groups activities by visiting a number of our operations the Board is proposing an increased final dividend of and reviewing our businesses with their management.
6.0 pence 2005 06: 5.8 pence which, together with I have been impressed by the quality and the commitment the interim dividend of 2.6 pence, gives a total dividend for the year of 8.6 pence 2005 06: 8.4 pence.
of the people I have met and the actions that are being taken to raise the performance of the businesses, not just Given the decline in the Groups results from late in the short-term but also through the business cycle.
In 2004 05, the recent focus has had to be on short-term addition to a continuing drive for greater efficiency, the profit recovery.
The higher profits in 2006 07 and the Group has developed strong market positions which improving trend through the year demonstrate that the are being enhanced through investment, new product actions taken are working.
The emphasis now is on development and geographic extension.
The considerable maintaining momentum and ensuring that we take the Peter Johnson potential to build on the Groups existing base gives right strategic options to maximise shareholder value Chairman me confidence for the future.
I am also fortunate to have inherited from my predecessor, Antony Hichens retired from the Board at the end of Antony Hichens, good and strong procedures for 2006 after seven years as Chairman, during which corporate governance.
These are underpinned both time the Group benefited greatly from his considerable by management processes within DS Smith and an experience and wise counsel.
He guided the Group open and honest management culture which seeks through a period of significant strategic development to tell it as it is.
I can assure shareholders of my own and operational improvement.
On behalf of the Board, commitment to maintain and develop this culture of I thank Antony for his substantial contribution to DS Smith.
In September 2006, we were pleased to welcome In 2006 07, the Group benefited from both a better Philippe Mellier to the Board as a non-Executive Director.
pricing environment in the paper and corrugated Philippe, who is President of Alstom Transport and an Executive Vice-President of Alstom Group, brings to the packaging market and the actions taken to improve Board his considerable experience gained with several the underlying business base.
These actions have major European manufacturing companies.
Daniel Piette, enhanced the Groups business mix, increased operational who had been a non-Executive Director since 1993, efficiency and lowered operating costs.
There was an retired from the Board in May 2007: his consistently improving trend in the Groups results through the second challenging views and valuable guidance on the half of the financial year and profit for the full year Groups affairs have been greatly appreciated.
was well ahead of the 2005 06 result.
In the coming year, our objective is to build on the The Groups adjusted profit before tax was 74.6 million improved results of the second half of 2006 07.
2005 06: 53.4 million and adjusted earnings per The Board is confident that the Group is well-positioned share were 13.1 pence 2005 06: 10.0 pence.
Cash ow, before dividends and net acquisitions, was 84.0 million 2005 06: 63.2 million.
The exceptional costs associated with the Groups restructuring programme were 18.6 million 2005 06: 28.9 million.
The 2006 07 exceptional costs were more than offset during the financial year by an exceptional profit of 20.5 million resulting from the Peter Johnson sale of the Taplow paper mill site in August 2006.
Chairman 4 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007
