Chairmans Statement Taking these two business segments together, it is our Philip Rogerson ambition to grow revenues over the next five years at Chairman double-digit rates, on average.
There have to be some caveats to this.
First, there will be peaks and troughs from year to year.
Second in setting ourselves this ambition, we are making the assumption that conditions in the world economy over the next five years will be broadly similar to those of the last five years.
Thirdly, our margins at the moment are extremely high, and we do expect there to be some dilution in the coming years.
Finally, such a rate of growth is going to require significant levels of investment: we will probably need to spend around 1 billion on new Introduction eet over the next five years.
We believe, however, Aggreko has delivered another outstanding that our balance sheet is strong enough to allow us performance in 2007 with good growth across all our to do so without recourse to shareholders.
businesses, especially in Aggreko International where the strong demand we have seen over the last few years Overall, we believe that the company is now is unabated.
Our European business has continued to extremely well positioned to grow and to create build momentum while our North American business further value for our shareholders.
has also performed well considering the difficult macro-economic backdrop.
Acquisition of GE Energy Rentals In December 2006 the Group acquired the Energy Strategy Rentals business of General Electric and I am pleased During 2007 we conducted one of our regular to say that the integration of this business is now reviews of strategy.
As a result of this review, we have completed with the two businesses fully combined.
concluded that Aggrekos current markets afford it This acquisition has contributed more than we plenty of opportunity to grow.
We believe that worldexpected at the time we announced it, and we are wide, demand for power and temperature control very pleased with the progress we have achieved.
rental excluding International Power Projects will grow by GDP plus 2-3% on average over the cycle.
Trading However, because of our strong positions in markets Reported revenue of 693.2 million 2006: 540.7 where demand will grow much faster than the market million was 28.2% higher than 2006 while revenue 1 average, we believe that our Local businesses can in constant currency and excluding pass-through 2 achieve premium rates of growth.
fuel from our contracts in Sri Lanka and Uganda increased by 34.0%.
profit before tax increased by In our International Power Projects business, which 49.4% to 124.2 million 2006: 83.1 million and accounts for about a third of our revenues, we think earnings per share increased by 51.3% to 30.33 pence demand is growing rapidly probably around 20% 2006: 20.05 pence.
per annum in terms of megawatts on hire.
This demand is being driven by a structural imbalance between burgeoning demand for power particularly in developing countries and inadequate investment in permanent power infrastructure.
1 Constant currency takes account of the impact of translational exchange movements in respect of our businesses which operate in currency other than sterling.
2 Pass-through fuel revenue relates to two contracts in Sri Lanka and Uganda in our International Projects business where we provide fuel on a pass-through basis.
12 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 During 2007 we increased capital investment to Outlook for 2008 180.6 million 2006: 128.0 million, the equivalent Looking ahead, at this early stage it is always hard of 1.9 times depreciation.
Around 95% of this capital to come to a denitive view of the outcome for the was invested on our rental eet to support the growth year as a whole, and particularly so when faced by the in the business.
Looking ahead, we expect that eet current level of uncertainty about the future direction capital investment in 2008 will increase further to of the various economies in which we operate.
Demand is extremely strong in International Power Projects and across many parts of the Local business, The reduction in net debt in the year to 202.6 million and we believe that the performance in these areas 2006: 205.2 million was particularly pleasing, will more than outweigh any weakness that might given the significant increase in capital expenditure arise in North America.
In our December 2007 Trading Update, we said Dividend that we expected to make good progress in 2008: the The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.02 trading performance in the first few weeks of the year, pence per ordinary share which, when added to the particularly in our International business, has reinforced interim dividend of 3.04 pence, gives a total for the this view and has further increased our confidence.
At this level, the dividend would be covered 3.76 times.
Subject to approval by shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2008 to ordinary shareholders on the register as at 18 April 2008, with an ex-dividend Philip G Rogerson date of 16 April 2008.
Chairman 6 March 2008 Employees The excellent progress we have made in 2007, particularly with the integration of the GE Energy Rentals business, is due to the leadership of our management team and the commitment and professionalism of our people.
In a business that prides itself on its work ethic, 2007 has been particularly demanding, and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank all of our employees for the contributions they have made to the success of Aggreko in 2007.
Board changes I am delighted to welcome two new Non-Executive Directors to the Board of Aggreko.
David Hamill, who joined the Board on 1 May 2007, is responsible for managing the combined Decorative Coatings businesses of Akzo Nobel and ICI, and has considerable experience in businesses which, like Aggreko, operate on a global basis.
Robert MacLeod who joined the Board of Aggreko on 10 September 2007, is Group Finance Director of WS Atkins Plc and also has substantial experience gained in an international environment.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13
