Chairmans statement Investors can be assured that our focus will stay firmly on enhancing revenue and on the efficient management of the cost base, in order to continue to improve shareholder value.
4.4% 5.3% 7.1% 10.1% 13.6% Return on equity 13.6% 03 04 05 06 07 2007 excludes the effect of 10.6 million profit from 2006: 10.1% the reversal of the impairment of the Groups investment in The Airline Group.
3.5 pp 8.2p 10.3p 14.8p 23.2p 34.8p Earnings per share 34.8p 03 04 05 06 07 Basic earnings per share except for 2007 which excludes 2006: 23.2p the effect of 10.6 million profit from the reversal of the impairment of the Groups investment in The Airline Group.
50% 30.8% 27.0% 32.5% 31.0% 20.4% Gearing 20.4% 03 04 05 06 07 2006: 31.0%p 10.6 pp easyJet plc 04 Annual report and accounts 2007 our original home at easyLand to Hangar 89 at London Profitable growth and improved Luton Airport.
Staff and visitors alike have praised the shareholder return much improved working conditions of this facility.
We are proud to report on another great year at easyJet.
Our performance has been excellent and Investment in the recruitment and retention of both it is very pleasing to announce a 48.1% increase in flight deck and cabin crew has enabled us to match underlying pre tax profits, especially coming on top the growth in our network with quality people.
of an increase of 56.4% in the prior year.
This demonstrates our commitment to sustaining easyJets well deserved reputation for good service.
During the year we experienced some significant challenges: not least continued higher fuel prices and My fellow directors and I continue to be very grateful in February, the unexpected doubling of Air Passenger for the commitment of our people to maintaining Duty APD in the UK.
However our business easyJets standards and we extend a warm welcome model, based on low cost with care and convenience, to those who have joined us during the year.
continues to prove as successful in continental Europe In October we announced an agreement to purchase as it has been in the UK.
GB Airways, this is subject to normal regulatory The Board set return on equity as its key financial approval and we anticipate a completion date no later measure and this year our shareholders have benefited than 31 January 2008.
Over the next few months from an underlying improvement of 3.5 percentage we will be planning the integration of GB Airways points to 13.6%, with underlying earnings per share into the easyJet family.
This acquisition will help us to increasing 50.1% to 34.8 pence.
grow and be a stronger airline, and we welcome the GB Airways team which I am sure will be a positive The environment addition to easyJet.
We fully recognise the importance of environmental issues in the context of the value for money services The Board we provide to our customers.
We have taken and Stability in the structure of the Board and the senior will continue to take responsible actions such as management team has considerably helped the continuing to operate one of the youngest and most achievement of this years results.
We have a environmentally efficient fleets of aircraft in Europe.
combination of experience, expertise and talent Our investment in modern aircraft continues with the which has served us well and on which we can confirmation of further orders for 87 new Airbus A319 continue to build the Companys future.
aircraft announced during the year.
I was delighted that John Browett accepted our Looking to the longer term, we are active participants, invitation to join the Board as a Non-Executive with both Boeing and Airbus, in the teams developing Director after an extensive search.
Johns experience the next generation of environmentally efficient aircraft.
and achievements at Tesco PLC, together with his forthcoming position as Chief Executive of DSG easyJet continues to support the inclusion of aviation international plc, will enhance the present board in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
We have structure and aligns with the future direction of consistently and coherently argued for the abolition the Company.
of APD, and its replacement by a method of taxation which is sensibly related to emissions not passengers.
Sadly, we will lose the services of Diederik Karsten The recognition of our case by all three of the main who will step down after the Annual General Meeting political parties in the UK, and in particular by the in February 2008.
Diederik has been an outstanding Chancellor in his pre-budget report, is most welcome.
contributor to the Board since the Company was listed on the London Stock Exchange in November 2000.
In addition we are encouraging our passengers to We will very much miss his contribution of sound contribute to the mitigation of climate change through judgement, experience and expertise.
our carbon offsetting programme which provides for credits only in projects certified by the United Nations.
Conclusion We have come a long way to become Europes fourth People largest airline in just 12 years, and there is much more Our people are a major asset to the Company and to come.
enabling them to work in a modern and efficient environment was the objective of the move from The continuous growth of easyJet since its inception is testament to the soundness of the basic business model.
Our policy of striving for continuous improvement to the model gives me confidence that growth will be sustained as we go forward.
Investors can be assured that our focus will stay firmly on enhancing revenue and on the efficient management of the cost base, in order to continue to improve shareholder value.
Sir Colin Chandler Chairman, 19 November 2007 easyJet plc 05 Annual report and accounts 2007 Were turning Europe orange... over800 times a day By the end of the year we had 137 aircraft employed flying an average of 872flights per day easyJet plc 06 Annual report and accounts 2007
