Chairmans Statement years, assuming no substantial deterioration Group revenue has grown at around 6% with in economic conditions.
Accordingly, the an improving performance during May.
The dividend will be maintained at 18.4p per share International business has grown revenue at for the full year, being year two of this three around 10% and the UK business has grown year period.
Our people The business has had another very busy year.
Revenue and profit growth has been achieved at the same time as the further roll out of EBS.
This has been made possible as a result of the Helmut Mamsch commitment and skill of all our people.
On Chairman Helmut Mamsch behalf of the Board, I thank everyone for Chairman their hard work.
As previously announced, Bob Lawson retired as Chairman in October 2006.
Bob made an Introduction enormous contribution to Electrocomponents This has been a year of good progress.
The over his 26 years with the Group.
In many ways implementation of the strategy continues with Bob has been the architect of the Group as it good signs of success in both our electronic and now stands.
In particular, he rolled out the RS electromechanical EEM and maintenance, concept internationally and this now comprises repair and operations MRO businesses and more than 500m nearly 60% of the Groups resultant strong sales growth.
I have appreciated enormously Business System EBS was implemented Bobs support in his handover to me and we all successfully during the financial year in Austria, wish him well in the future.
Italy and Germany and since the year end in We are the worlds largest industrial Nick Temple will be retiring at the Annual General Benelux, Ireland, Scandinavia and Spain.
It now electronics catalogue distributor.
Meeting after 10 years on the Board.
We thank supports all the UK and European businesses.
Nick for his valuable contribution, particularly in The work to create a lower cost infrastructure the eld of technology and e-Commerce, which has progressed well, including the move to a new head ofce, and has achieved 7.6m of has become a major channel for our business.
We wish him well for the future.
Tim Barker, who has been a Non-Executive Overall, headline profit increased by 16% to Director of the Company for seven years, will 84m supported by sustained sales growth across the Group, gross margin stabilisation replace Nick Temple as Senior Independent Director at the Annual General Meeting.
and tight control of costs.
Strategic Development Rupert Soames has been appointed to the Board The strategy development is now delivering as a Non-Executive Director.
Rupert is currently tangible benets with the launch of extended CEO of Aggreko plc, the global leader in the rental ranges and leading edge products, a more of power, temperature control and oil-free exible service offer and more competitive compressed air systems.
He has significant pricing to meet customer requirements.
This relevant international, high service and has been supported by more customer-specic information systems experience and we selling and marketing activities.
Dividend Current Trading The Board announced in 2005 that it would Since the year end the Group has successfully maintain the dividend for the following three completed the EBS roll out across Europe.
2 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
