Chairmans statement I am delighted to be presenting another outstanding set of results for 2007.
Last year we refined our strategy and long-term goals and I am pleased to report good progress on all fronts.
Introduction Employees I am delighted to be presenting another outstanding set of results Our people are central to our success.
During FY07, we continued for FY07, as shown in this Annual Report.
Last year we refined our to upgrade our organisation through new hires, internal promotions strategy and long-term goals and we report on our progress against and training.
The acquisition of Fabristeel more than doubled our them in the operating and financial review.
I am also pleased to employee base in the important Asia Pacific region to approximately report good progress on all fronts.
This will pay significant dividends as we focus on growth in this key territory.
improved our management depth: Returns to shareholders expanded and added new lean systems and processes: Dividends represent an important component of total shareholder achieved double-digit like-for-like revenue and operating return.
The Board is therefore pleased to recommend a final dividend profit growth: in respect of FY07 of 3.0p per share FY06: 2.17p, bringing our total improved margins: for the year to 4.4p FY06: 3.0p, payable on 14 February 2008, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
generated strong cash flow: and The total dividend is a 47% increase over the prior year.
In addition, made efficient use of our balance sheet.
we completed our announced on-market share buy-back programme by repurchasing a total of 41 million shares at a cost of 82m.
Our strategy of Innovation in Technology, Brands and Service is driving continued momentum in our company.
Summary The Board We believe that Enodis is well positioned to continue to capitalise on dynamic changes in the industry and have confidence in We have been assisted in addressing the challenges we have faced the long-term prospects of the Group.
With strong order rates over the year by having a stable and committed Board to support and continued momentum, we expect another year of good our excellent management team.
We have continued to set high progress in FY08.
expectations for ourselves as a Board and, as set out in the Corporate Governance Report, we have maintained our efforts continually to examine our performance and to develop.
I would like to thank my Board colleagues for their time, commitment in the face of increasing demands and for the quality of their contributions.
Peter Brooks Chairman 20 | Enodis plc | Chairmans statement
