Business Review Chairmans Statement 4,700 36 Employees Manufacturing facilities The Board believes Filtrona remains well placed to deliver 42 4 long-term growth Distribution Research units facilities I am pleased to report that during 2007 Filtrona developed well.
The Company built on the organic growth momentum established in previous years, successfully managed the North American restructuring programme in the Cigarette Filters division, and integrated the newly acquired Duraco business in the US.
In 2007 operating profits for the Company, before intangible amortisation and restructuring costs, moved ahead strongly, growing by 8.8% to 64.4m, an increase of 14.2% at constant exchange rates.
Revenue was 4.4% lower than the prior year due to the effects of exchange rates and the decline in the Cigarette Filters division which was highlighted at the end of 2006.
Revenue for the other businesses was higher in 2007, most strongly in the Protection and Finishing Products and Bonded Fibre Components divisions.
Company margins improved from 11.4% to 13.0% as a result of productivity improvements following the restructuring of the Cigarette Filters division and sustained capital investment.
Adjusted earnings per share grew by 10.3% to 17.2p 2006: 15.6p and by 15.4% at constant exchange rates.
The strategic development of Filtrona continued in 2007.
The Duraco business, based in Chicago, Illinois, was acquired and successfully integrated.
It has delivered ahead of expectations, with its attractive market positions and strong margin generation complementing the existing Protection and Finishing Products businesses.
The disposal of Globalpack, the Brazilian consumer packaging business, was completed in June and consequently the results shown are on a continuing basis with the contribution from Globalpack presented as a discontinued operation in the consolidated income statement.
0 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Filtronas Mission Statement Filtrona will Focus on the development of innovative and value added products and services Deliver world class quality and service Continue to develop strong relationships with customers, partners and suppliers Continue to reduce product costs Develop a co-operative working environment where employees are committed, involved and recognised for their contribution And thereby grow profitably Margin improvement and effective working capital I am always impressed by the enthusiasm and professionalism management led to strong cash inflow from operating of the employees I meet at the Filtrona sites across the globe activities of 84.9m in the year and, in the second half of the and on behalf of the Board and shareholders I would like to year, the Company conducted a limited programme of market thank them all for their hard work and contribution to the purchases of its own shares under which 13.7 million shares Companys performance in 2007.
6.2% of the Companys issued share capital were bought into treasury, returning 30.6m to shareholders.
In 2008 Filtrona will continue the programme of driving productivity improvements in its existing businesses and The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.08p per seeking acquisitions to strengthen the Companys positions share which, if approved, at the Annual General Meeting on in key markets.
The performance in Fibre Technologies is 24 April 2008, will make a total of 7.60p 2006: 6.90p per expected to be in line with 2007 as a result of reduced share for the full year.
This represents a 10.1% increase on volumes and further restructuring costs in the Cigarette Filters 2006.
The final dividend will be paid on 2 May 2008 to division.
This restructuring will result in a lower cost base and shareholders on the register at 11 April 2008. a more competitive business.
The good performance in Plastic Technologies is expected to continue.
We were very pleased to welcome Lars Emilson to the Board as a Non-executive Director on 1 May 2007.
With the addition Overall, despite uncertain economic conditions, the of Lars wide international experience, the Board maintains Board believes that Filtrona will continue to make progress the right blend of skills to support our executive team as they and that the Company remains well placed to deliver drive the future growth of Filtrona.
Steve Dryden announced his resignation as Finance Director Jeff Harris in December 2007, although he currently remains part of the Chairman executive team pending the handover of his responsibilities.
28 February 2008 Steve has made a valuable contribution to Filtrona during his eleven years service and the Board wishes him every success in his future career.
The recruitment process for Steves successor is well advanced.
The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year together with a day of strategy discussions.
One of the Board meetings was held at the Bonded Fibre Components facility in Richmond, US, to enhance the Boards first-hand knowledge of the businesses.
0 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
