74574 PRE 1 12 12 07 20:22 Page 2 Chairmans Statement Highlights 2007 2006 change Revenue 305.2m 220.5m 38% Operating profit 54.1m 39.7m 36% Adjusted operating profit 78.6m 43.8m 79% Profit before tax 41.1m 35.2m 17% Adjusted profit before tax 55.5m 37.0m 50% Diluted earnings a share 29.9p 41.9p -29% Adjusted diluted earnings a share 32.7p 28.6p 14% Dividend 19.0p 17.0p 12% see glossary page 5 It was a record year for profits and revenues, but it was also a Revenue and profit growth were achieved across all divisions: landmark period when we sharply increased the emphasis on subscription revenues increased sharply and now account for subscription revenues and lightened the share of turnover more than a third of group revenues: the adjusted operating from traditionally more volatile advertising.
The successful margin improved from 20% to 26%: the integration of Metal integration of Metal Bulletin accounted for part of this, but Bulletin, acquired in October 2006, was completed ahead of our continued investment in subscription marketing, specialist time and its performance has surpassed that projected at the events and quality editorial also paid off.
Your group serves time of acquisition: and record net operating cash flows financial markets across the world, but it is more diversified helped reduce net debt at year end to 204.6 million than it was, and we believe it is more robust and better placed compared with 239.6 million at the half year.
to take advantage of an upturn when it comes.
The group operating margin improved sharply and all divisions Our strategy over the past five years has been to increase the achieved strong organic growth, based on: share of subscription revenues, to own only products of the highest quality that customers will value in tough times as well subscription revenues for both print and electronic as good, to eliminate products with low margins or too high products continuing to show double digit growth: a dependence on advertising, to create new products that advertising revenues increasing at the highest rate for fit these criteria, to streamline the group into larger businesses some time: in growth areas, and to make acquisitions to accelerate that strategy.
a successful strategy for growing existing events complemented by the launch of new ones: That paid big rewards in 2007, a good year in general for continuing strong volume growth in the training financial markets, and I believe it will help us through what businesses: and may be a difficult period ahead.
The companys management, thanks in part to the Capital Appreciation Plan which helped the benefit of earlier investment in marketing and new to more than treble adjusted operating profits over the period products.
of the scheme by retaining and motivating the best people, is better than it has ever been, in my view.
Our cash generation, traditionally strong, has improved further, encouraging us to seek more acquisitions and to invest in high quality subscription products, new events and the quality of editorial that enabled Institutional Investor magazine which celebrated its 40th anniversary in October and II Newsletters to win a hatful of awards in the US.
We will continue with this strategy, even if revenues come under pressure in the short-term as customers react to pressure on their own earnings, because we believe it will deliver excellent growth in the medium and longer-term.
Last year it helped the company to achieve adjusted operating profit for the year to September 30 2007 of 78.6 million, against 43.8 million in 2006.
Adjusted profit before tax increased by 50% to 55.5 million and adjusted diluted earnings a share increased from 28.6p to 32.7p.
The directors recommend a 12% increase in the final dividend to 13p, making a total for the year of 19p.
02 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 3 The problems in global credit markets, which began in early exchange markets and the Euromoney Business Library, with August, did not affect the groups profits in the final quarter more planned for 2008.
The initial market response to these of the year.
new products has been very positive.
Current trading is in line with the boards expectations.
Business Publishing: Following the acquisition of Metal October profits from continuing operations were ahead of last Bulletin, and the disposal of Engel Publishing, the year, helped by strong performances from two of the groups pharmaceutical marketing business, this division is now flagship events: the annual Coaltrans coal conference and focused on three sectors metals, energy and legal and Institutional Investors MARHedge Global Hedge Fund Summit derives nearly half its revenues from subscription products.
Forward revenues for the first quarter are ahead three sectors benefited from buoyant markets, in particular of the same time last year.
While there is evidence of some high energy and commodity prices.
The Metals, Minerals and slowing in advertising and sponsorship bookings, sales for the Mining MMM business of Metal Bulletin is the largest last three months are also ahead of the same period last year.
component of this division and its performance improved in The first quarter is traditionally the least significant of the the second half as the benefits of the post-acquisition financial year and, as usual at the time of the preliminary restructuring and investment in marketing started to come results, visibility into the second quarter is limited.
The inclusion of the MMM business helped adjusted operating profits from Business Publishing more than double to 14.0 million on the back of a 91% increase in revenues Our results were achieved on the back of the positive to 40.7 million.
conditions in the markets experienced throughout 2007, fuelled by record levels of liquidity, low interest rates and easy credit.
Growth has been achieved across all geographies and Conferences and Seminars: The strong growth achieved sectors, and emerging markets, which account for more than over the past few years continued with revenues up 28% to a third of group revenues, remained strong even during the 98.2 million.
The strategy of building large, must-attend credit market troubles.
annual events in key sectors, as well as launching new events to exploit market trends and hot topics, helped the margin Global financial institutions continue to invest in new products improve from 26% to 30% and adjusted operating profits and markets, driving increased demand for quality business increased by 47% to 29.8 million.
Institutional Investors information through a variety of media.
Technology has subscription-based membership business continues to achieve opened up opportunities for new electronic information excellent growth with member numbers increasing by 15%, services and nearly 2 million was invested in new products helped by new launches for the research, legal and tax during the period.
markets, and a renewal rate of 90% which emphasises the quality of this business.
Financial Publishing: Revenues, which comprise both advertising and subscriptions, increased by 16% to 75.2 Training: The Training division extended the excellent results million.
Advertising continued the positive trend seen in the achieved over the previous 12 months, with revenues first half and titles such as Euromoney and the international increasing by 21% to 35.2 million.
Growth was driven by edition of Institutional Investor, which derive a significant a combination of more targeted marketing to improve proportion of their advertising from emerging markets, the delegate attendance rate, and new courses achieved advertising growth rates in excess of 15%, their best performance for many years.
The profit flow-through on advertising revenues helped improve the adjusted operating margin from 20% to 26% and adjusted operating profits increased by 44% to 19.0 million.
Subscriptions, which account for one third of Financial Publishing revenues, increased by 21%.
This reflects both volume increases in print subscriptions as well as the gradual migration of print products to electronic platforms.
The groups investment in new products is targeted at niche financial information services with real-time news, unique data and sophisticated search engine technology, as well as upgrading individual print subscriptions to enhanced electronic products sold as site licences.
New products launched in the year have included Total Securitisation, The Cover news and data for the covered bond market, FiX Euromoneys weekly commentary on the foreign Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 03 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 4 Chairmans Statement continued offered, particularly in emerging markets.
As a result an accelerated share option expense of profits from the Training division increased by 41% to 3.2 million was charged in the year, and 2.5 million new 9.8 million.
shares will be issued in February 2008 to satisfy the first vesting under the CAP.
The second and third tranches of up to 2.5 million new shares each will be issued in February 2009 Databases and Information Services: This division largely and 2010, subject to the performance condition that City comprises three businesses which share similar characteristics: PBT remains above the 57 million level.
subscription-only products delivering high quality data and information in electronic-only format and with renewal rates The acquisition of Metal Bulletin was completed on October 6 in excess of 90%.
The inclusion of BCA in this division means 2006 for a cash consideration of 240 million, plus assumed that revenues more than doubled to 52 million and adjusted debt of 15 million, funded by the issue of 13.8 million new operating profits increased from 5.1 million to 18.7million.
shares for 65 million and borrowings of 175 million.
Further investments totalling 26 million were made in a number of BCA subscription sales improved significantly during the the groups associates and subsidiaries during the year, while second half with average monthly new sales more than 40% disposals of non-core businesses generated proceeds of ahead of 2006.
This performance was helped by the launch 15 million.
of a new Commodities and Energy research product and the benefits of being part of the Euromoney group which The company generates approximately 60% of its revenues in accelerated the addition of sales resource in the groups offices US dollars.
The average US dollar exchange rate fell by 9% in New York, Hong Kong, Sydney and Buenos Aires.
The company hedges its US dollar exposure a year forward so the impact on the results of currency ISI, the emerging markets information business, also achieved fluctuations is delayed accordingly.
Net new subscription sales over the second half were the highest ever, and the business has invested Net debt at year end was 204.6 million compared to heavily in new products including the roll out of the CEIC 239.6 million at the half year.
The strong operating cash economic data business to new markets in 2008. flows of Metal Bulletin helped increase group cash generated by operations for the year to 90.2 million and generated an The acquisition of Metal Bulletin plc, the companys largest adjusted operating profit to cash conversion rate of 115%.
transaction, was completed at the start of the financial year The net cost of funding the groups debt increased from and the integration of its businesses within the Euromoney 3.6 million to 13.4 million.
The net debt: EBITDA covenant Institutional Investor group was concluded ahead of time.
was a comfortable 2.9 times at year end.
Annualised cost savings from the elimination of duplicate Adjusted diluted earnings a share increased by 14% to 32.7p, functions and the restructuring of under-performing after taking account of the equity dilution from for the new businesses are expected to exceed 5 million, of which shares issued to fund the acquisition of Metal Bulletin and 3.5 million was realised in 2007.
Exceptional costs of to be issued under the CAP.
A final dividend of 13p has 5.9 million were charged against profits in 2007 to cover been proposed, an increase of 12%, after a 11% increase in the interim dividend.
The final dividend will be paid on the costs of restructuring and onerous property leases.
The February 6 2008. process of disposing of non-core Metal Bulletin businesses, including EIC, Atalink and Systematics was completed soon after the half year.
The two key parts of Metal Bulletin, the MMM division, including the eponymous title, and BCA, the independent economic research house, are strong subscription businesses.
Both have responded well to Euromoney initiatives to drive revenue synergies.
The events business has been restructured and positioned for a sharp increase in the number of new events in 2008, the first Metal Bulletin training courses were run in the last quarter, and the investment in technology has been stepped up with a view to launching publishing products.
The acquisition of these Metal Bulletin businesses provides a counter balance to the groups other activities.
The companys Capital Appreciation Plan CAP is a five year equity incentive put in place to help drive City PBT from a base of 21 million in 2003 to a target of at least 57 million by 2008.
City PBT for the year was 65.7 million, resulting in the CAP profit target being passed a year earlier than 04 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 5 The increase in the share of subscriptions as a percentage of I am particularly proud that last year Euromoney Institutional revenues to more than a third of the total, compared to 21% Investor, its employees, and its customers together raised in 2001, was accompanied by a fall in the share of advertising 287,000 to build a childrens eye hospital in Orissa, the poorest from 37% to 22% over the same period, and an increase in state of India.
Details are set out on page 14 of this annual revenues from training and events from 30% to 39% of the report, but here I thank everyone who contributed to this total.
Seven of the groups 10 largest businesses are initiative, including Euromoney Institutional Investor people at subscription-based and in many cases, such as BCA, ISI and II our offices across the world.
They worked hard to bring you a Memberships, these are fast growing businesses, with high wonderful result for the year but they, the company and its renewal rates and significant scope for launching new customers also funded a project that will save the eyesight of products and increasing market penetration, even in more 15,000 children a year.
In 2008, the group will continue to invest in marketing and new businesses, in particular electronic information services, to drive revenue growth, and the successful integration of Metal Bulletin and strong operating cash flows leave the Padraic Fallon group well positioned for further acquisitions, although we Chairman have nothing sizeable in our sights at present.
November 14 2007 The group is very strong despite the uncertainty over the economic outlook in general and global credit markets in particular.
The strength and positioning of the groups brands Glossary combined with a commitment to investment in marketing and Adjusted operating profit Operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, share option expense, exceptional items and share of results in new products provides opportunities for further revenue associates and joint ventures as set out in the income statement.
The successful integration of Adjusted profit before tax Profit before tax from continuing operations Metal Bulletin will generate additional cost savings in 2008 before acquired intangible amortisation, exceptional items, net movements in acquisition option commitment values, imputed interest on acquisition and leaves the group well placed to deliver more revenue option commitments and foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax synergies.
Excellent operating cash flows will continue to equalisation swaps as set out in the income statement and note 7. reduce debt levels and associated funding costs.
In addition, City profit before tax City PBT Adjusted profit before tax before share the increased proportion of revenues now derived from high option expense.
margin subscription products, particularly those delivered Adjusted diluted earnings a share Diluted earnings a share before acquired intangible amortisation, exceptional items, net movements in electronically, and the reduced exposure to advertising acquisition option commitment values, imputed interest on acquisition revenues, means the groups earnings should be more robust option commitments, related tax, tax credit on non-recurring intergroup transactions and deferred tax assets recognised as set out in note 8. than before.
The continued volatility in financial markets which has triggered significant asset write-downs and job cuts among the global investment banks clearly casts uncertainty over the outlook for 2008, but we are prepared for the challenge.
Apart from record profits, it was also a year of achievements elsewhere.
Coaltrans won the Queen's Award, deservedly so as it has taken its business into every corner of the world.
Its people worked incredibly hard to achieve this, and we congratulate them.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 05
