Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Chairmans statement Your Board has announced a dividend of 11.5 cents, Experian has made a good start in its giving a full-year dividend of 17 cents.
new life as an independent company.
At the time of demerger, we talked about Experians The demerger last October was well strategy for achieving long-term, sustainable growth.
Our received by shareholders, while the aim is to continue to deliver mid to high single-digit 800m of new equity that we raised organic sales growth each year and to accelerate this through complementary acquisitions.
We also remain from investors will provide the firmly focused on tight cost control throughout our flexibility to fund future growth operations, in order to reinvest the savings in new products and new markets, while maintaining or opportunities.
Since then, we have improving our profit margin.
made progress operationally and strategically, while delivering a fifth I am pleased to say that we successfully harnessed all our key drivers of growth this year.
For example, we won consecutive year of double-digit significant new contracts with clients such as Bank of revenue and profit growth.
America, HSBC and GE Money.
We developed more than 20 new products, covering all areas of our business.
We strengthened our position in new market sectors, including government, healthcare and telecommunications.
We extended our operations into other countries such as India and Poland.
And we acquired further complementary businesses to accelerate our entry into new markets and new product areas.
We also continued to attract and retain talented people throughout all parts of the business.
I am especially pleased that we have been able to appoint such a strong Board to take the Group forward.
Our recent appointments have ensured that the Board has an excellent blend of skills and experience, gained internationally and across a wide range of market sectors.
One of our other early actions as an independent company was to set out explicitly our social responsibilities.
These range from ensuring that our data is protected effectively to reducing our greenhouse gas emissions.
We believe that Experians products and services contribute strongly to a healthy economy, by helping businesses to build successful customer relationships and enabling consumers to make more informed purchasing decisions.
Ultimately, Experians success lies in the skills and energies of the people who work for us and I would like to acknowledge their achievements and to thank them for their tremendous support.
In particular, I would like to recognise the extraordinary contribution of John Saunders, our Chief Executive of Global Operations, who has recently retired after 24 years with the business.
I hope you will enjoy reading this first annual report from Experian and that, like me, you will be pleased with our progress this year.
John Peace Chairman 22 May 2007 12 | Experian Annual Report 2007
