Chairmans Statement with order businesses contributed 70m to sales.
This has been another record year Benchmark operating profit increased by 29% to for your company.
For Home Shopping and Services combined, sales increased by 23% to the financial year ended 31 March 368.3m 2006: 299.5m and operating profit 2007 were 11% higher at 587m was 20.3m 2006: 39.2m.
Benchmark Our core home shopping credit business enjoyed a successful year with product sales increasing by profit before tax increased by 5%.
I am delighted to report that the customer base 10% to 56m from 50.7m.
As a is now over 1.5m with retention rates at a record 70%.
Sales to established customers grew by result of the high level of corporate 8% with average order value growing by 4%.
Bad debt activity and restructuring giving remains in line with budgeted levels at less than 8% of sales.
All this has been achieved at a time rise to a number of one-off costs, when marketing expenditure was reduced from profit before tax reduced to 34m to 29m.
The continued strong growth in sales from the internet is extremely encouraging.
These now Benchmark earnings per share increased to 50.17p represent 30% of all sales in our core credit 2006: 48.33p the prior year having benefited from business, an increase of 35%.
Additionally, last year a lower tax charge.
Basic earnings per share were tests on the internet proved it to be successful as a 19.33p 2006: 35.58p.
recruitment medium and our plans for this year are This has been a year of considerable strategy-led designed to build substantially on this.
The focused change designed to enhance the future prospects for internet skill sets brought in with our cash with order the groups businesses.
At the beginning of the year businesses will bring additional benets to our credit I said that we wanted to move strategically into the business and we see this as a continuing exciting cash with order market and we have taken some area of development.
Next year we expect over 50% significant steps with the acquisition of a number of of the divisions sales to be transacted over the businesses.
Additionally, a number of actions were internet.
taken to prepare for this expansion in relation to A year ago Home Shopping operated only a credit which we incurred net non-recurring costs in the model.
During the year we acquired Kleeneze, first half of 24.2m.
As part of our strategic review Kitbag.
com, Confetti, I Want One of Those.
com, of all divisions, we have also sold or discontinued a Letterbox and The Cotswold Company and number of non-core businesses to improve the overall consequently have built a cash with order business efficiency of the group.
The total net non-recurring with annualised sales of over 150m.
cost in the second half of the year was 12.4m after recognising a gain of 7.8m for negative goodwill A very significant integration exercise is being arising on the acquisition of certain businesses from undertaken and is proceeding to plan.
It is our European Home Retail plc.
intention over the next 12 months to maximise the synergies available from the acquired businesses.
The principal non-recurring costs in the year were the The central functions for the internet brands are disposal of our outlet stores 16.5m, a warehouse being brought together under a new umbrella reorganisation in Home Shopping and the exit of all company, Findel Direct which will provide centralised third party fullment contracts 7.5m, the final finance, warehousing, distribution, systems support element of the reorganisation in Educational Supplies and administration.
However, in order to maintain 4.3m, the loss on disposal of Home Farm Hampers brand integrity we will retain brand management for 2.4m, losses in terminated businesses including in both marketing and buying within each business.
We Home Farm Hampers 6.0m, and the initial phase of have freed up a large part of our Chadderton site to the major project to integrate our cash with order house Findel Direct.
In addition, we are moving Kleeneze warehousing, Home Shopping customer service and administration functions to our Home Shopping sales from ongoing businesses main site in Accrington.
The customer service and increased by 29% to 338.4m 2006: 262.8m.
administration functions are currently moving and will Following the closure of the Home Farm Hampers be completed in July.
The warehousing and logistics business and the exit from all third party fullment functions will be moved by the end of August.
The contracts, all remaining activities previously reported incorporation of Kleeneze into our state of the art as the Services division are now incorporated in the facility in Accrington will bring additional savings and Home Shopping division results.
The acquired cash further utilise its capacity.
2 The Home Shopping division is now well positioned We saw an upturn in demand in the final quarter of last year which has continued into the new financial with both a credit and cash with order offer.
Divisional like for like sales in our credit business year, with divisional demand for the first six weeks of in the first 6 weeks of the new financial year are the financial year 6% ahead of last year.
I believe that 7% ahead with product sales 13% ahead.
Overall our refreshed product range, improved service, increasing sophistication in the use of our data divisional sales following our acquisitions are some 64% ahead of last year.
warehouse and thoroughly revitalised business present us with a strong opportunity for a return to growth this year.
Educational Supplies The Educational Supplies division saw a slight Healthcare reduction in ongoing sales to 168.2m 2006: 173.8m with benchmark operating profit NRS, our healthcare business, has gone through at 22.7m 2006: 24.2m reecting a difficult a period of consolidation and system development.
market caused by a combination of factors: the way Divisional sales were 48.8m 2006: 53.2m the government introduced the new multi year with benchmark operating profit at 1.8m budgets, delays in providing this years funding, or 2006: 3.6m.
Statutory operating profit was simply as noted by the schools minister in March, 1.0m 2006: 3.6m.
Although sales and profit in the fact that schools are not spending to their the financial year were down, impacted by internal budgets and have once again built up net surpluses reorganisation and the introduction of our new to 1.6bn.
Statutory sales were 169.6m operational pda based IT system, ICON, the action 2006: 175.0m and statutory operating profit we have taken will be reected in future sales and was 16.4m 2006: 7.0m.
Findel is the market leader in Educational Supplies During the year, NRS management worked hard and has the best brands in the market.
Over the past with contractors to develop and roll out ICON and two years we have streamlined the business and have this is now installed across our entire contract base.
improved our service to what we consider to be the Whilst the development of this has been very time optimum level for a catalogue business.
We are consuming, the benets will be considerable.
With developing more unique product than ever before and ICON we will be able to track and trace product this represents a key strength of our business.
throughout its lifecycle thereby optimising product Unique product generates interest, refers teachers re-use and obtain live data on the location of stock, back into our main brand catalogues and importantly vehicles and drivers resulting in signicantly improved also protects margin.
It will also provide a new web-based management information system with signicantly We continue to look for strategic acquisitions which enhanced information ow.
Over time the introduction enhance or strengthen our presence in the market of this system will signicantly enhance profitability.
and we recently acquired Philograph Publications Ltd, whose Philip and Tacey brand specialises in sales to During the year, NRS was awarded the largest ICES independent schools.
contract to come to market, Cambridgeshire and Peterborough, which is a five year contract at over Research commissioned by Findel from independent 5m a year, with a two year extension.
This contract agency Laing & Buisson suggests that our total went live on 1 April 2007.
We successfully negotiated addressable market in the UK is in the order of contract extensions to the value of 33m across five 1.8bn, giving us a market share of close to 10%.
In addition, NRS has been awarded ISO Around 75% comes from state establishments, accreditation, which will be increasingly important in largely primary and secondary schools.
Of the our bid for new tenders.
remaining 25%, the majority comes from the private sector or from pre-school education At the half year we reported that part of our providers such as nurseries, crches, playgroups strategy was to expand into the provision and service and childminders.
This led to the successful acquisition of Synergy Managed Equipment Services which The supply base to the Educational Supplies market provides a managed wheelchair products and support is highly fragmented and we have no national service to the healthcare market.
competitors of any size in our sector.
Taking into account regional suppliers we estimate we have well NRS is the leader in the Integrated Community over 1,000 direct competitors.
Most of these are Equipment Supplies market with over 45% of the small operators often dealing in a very limited market in the private sector.
I believe that the actions product range.
The existence of these generally taken this year will strengthen that position in what inefficient competitors offers us scope for will become a very fast growing sector.
Sales in the significant growth through consolidation of the new financial year have shown meaningful improvement market.
and are already some 6% ahead of last year.
co. uk 3 Dividends Prospects The directors are recommending a final dividend of The Educational Supplies division and Healthcare 15.6p per share 2006: 14.2p a 10% increase.
This division are both market leaders and the work we will be paid on 5 July 2007 to shareholders on the have undertaken in both these divisions over the last register at 8 June 2007.
This would make a total two years positions them well for future growth, and dividend for the year of 19.8p 2006: 18.0p per share we are currently seeing some signs of early progress.
In Home Shopping, the credit business has performed well and I am particularly pleased by the rapid Employees development of our cash with order business and our The success we have enjoyed would not have been signicantly enhanced internet penetration.
Cash possible without the continued enthusiasm and with order opens an entire new channel to market for loyalty of all our employees.
On behalf of the board the division whilst the internet also provides and the shareholders I would like to express our significant opportunities for sales growth and sincere appreciation to them.
Currently group sales including our acquisitions are Board Changes 32% ahead of the equivalent six week period last year.
On 4 July 2006 I was pleased to welcome Mike Hawker to the board as a non-executive director.
This year has been a strategically important period Mike has over 25 years experience in home shopping for the group and the board is confident that we will having latterly been Chief Executive of Otto UK.
continue to make further progress in the current year.
Having served over three full terms on the board as a non-executive director, John Padovan has decided not to offer himself for re-election at the annual general meeting.
During his time on the board John has made Burley House an invaluable contribution and on behalf of the board Bradford Road and myself, I should like to thank him for all his BurleyinWharfedale assistance and wise counsel.
Keith Chapman West Yorkshire The board is actively seeking to appoint an additional Chairman LS29 7DZ non-executive director.
Benchmark results are stated excluding the results of Strategic Review businesses sold or terminated in the period, amortisation of The last six months have been extremely busy both acquired intangibles, net restructuring charges, exceptional items, profits and losses on sale of investments, profits and corporately and operationally and have delayed a final losses on sale of businesses, gain from negative goodwill, decision on the future corporate structure of the share-based payment expenses and net fair value group.
However, we are now sufciently advanced in remeasurement adjustments to financial instruments.
dealing with the integration of our acquisitions to be able to focus on this question and expect to conclude the review by the end of this summer.
