Chairmans statement The Boards commitment to increase dividends by 10% for a further three years reflects our confidence in the Groups strong cash generation and prospects for further growth.
I am delighted to report a very successful year for the Group delivering on our clear strategy to profitably grow in our core markets and create further value for shareholders.
Our focus is on delivering safe, high quality and reliable services throughout our business.
The safety of our passengers and employees is our highest priority and we strive to lead the industry in this area and achieve the highest possible standards across the Group.
This has been a year of excellent progress across our business.
We achieved a record set of results with revenue increased to 3,708.8m 2006: 3,030.9m and adjusted profit before tax before intangible asset amortisation, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring items and loss on disposal of fixed assets increased to 195.8m 2006: 176.4m.
Profit before tax was 140.2m 2006: 157.4m reflecting higher one-off costs primarily as a result of non-recurring rail franchise mobilisation costs and lower property results.
I am very pleased that the Group has delivered this strong performance despite the additional fuel cost increase during the year which impacted Group operating profit by 37.1m.
EBITDA Group operating profit plus depreciation increased to a record 398.9m 2006: 351.7m and cash generation has been excellent.
Adjusted basic earnings per share increased by 9.1% to 33.7p 2006: 30.9p.
The Board has proposed a final to thank all of our staff for their continued hard work and dividend, subject to approval by shareholders, of 10.5p commitment in delivering another excellent year for the making a full year payment of 15.5p, an increase of 10%.
I would also like to welcome new employees who The dividend is covered 2.2 times, before intangible asset have joined our businesses in the UK and North America amortisation, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring during the period.
items and loss on disposal of fixed assets.
It will be paid on 24 August 2007 to shareholders on the register on 20 July I am very pleased with the progress achieved by the Group 2007.
The Boards commitment to increase dividends by this year building on our position as a leading transport 10% for the foreseeable future, at least for a further three provider.
We are delivering on our clear strategy to create years, reflects our confidence in the Groups strong cash shareholder value by sustainable growth in our core generation and prospects for further growth.
businesses and exploring opportunities to develop in new markets.
We have made a significant investment in our On 9 February 2007 we were delighted to announce the business to ensure that we offer the highest level of service proposed acquisition of Laidlaw International, Inc. the to our customers and we remain committed to increasing leading provider of school and intercity bus transportation the dividend by 10% per annum for the foreseeable future.
and a supplier of public transit services in North America.
This is an exciting time for the Group as we consolidate our Following the approval for this transaction from both our position in the highly attractive North American market and shareholders and Laidlaw stockholders on 20 April 2007 continue to deliver improved operating performance and we now only await the necessary antitrust regulatory revenue growth in our UK businesses.
The Board is approvals in the US and Canada for completion.
We optimistic about the opportunities for the business and believe this transformational acquisition will significantly looks forward to the future with confidence.
enhance shareholder value and underpins future growth.
The integration of Laidlaw with FirstGroup gives us a unique opportunity to become the leading operator in the large, fragmented North American transport market and leverage value through scale.
We have an excellent track record of successfully acquiring and integrating businesses Martin Gilbert and we are excited by the opportunities this acquisition Chairman will bring to increase the service offering to customers.
Operating profit referred to throughout this document refers to operating profit We recognise that our staff are our greatest asset.
On before intangible asset amortisation, non-recurring bid costs, other non-recurring behalf of the Board I would like to take this opportunity items and loss profit on disposal of fixed assets.
2 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
