Gordon Page Chairman This has been another year of good progress for the Group with improvement in operating performance and a further step forward in the strategic development of the business.
02 FKI plc Chairmans statement Chairmans statement This has been another year of good progress for the Group The strategic review process announced with the interim with improvement in operating performance and a further results is now complete.
Since the announcement in late step forward in the strategic development of the business.
November of the launch of the review, extensive analysis and market testing have been undertaken by the Company The economic conditions facing the Group have been and advisers.
The Board has concluded that the strategic somewhat mixed: those businesses supplying extractive direction that is likely to create the most value for our industries and energy have enjoyed buoyant demand, whilst shareholders is a progressive focus of the Groups activities those supplying the US housing market have suffered from around the Lifting Products and Services and Energy a severe drop in US housing starts.
The movement of the Technology businesses which will have a better growth Sterling Dollar relationship in the year has adversely profile than the current Group as a whole, reduce affected the translation of profits.
The overall effect of complexity and secure access to sufficient and flexible currency translation reduced operating profit before special financing to support business developments.
items by 4.7 million which partly masks the progress made by the Group.
Rising and volatile commodity prices, The process of separating Hardware and FKI Logistex particularly for copper and zinc, have adversely affected from the rest of the Group will be carried out as quickly operating margins and profits as businesses have been as possible, but may take up to eighteen to twenty-four unable to pass on all increases immediately.
The balance between time and value will be carefully managed in the best interests of shareholders.
Overall turnover from continuing businesses grew by 4.5% to 1,330.9 million 2006: 1,273.4 million Your Board looks forward to further operating performance with operating profits before special items flat at improvement and driving the next stage of the strategic 100.6 million 2006: 100.0 million.
Demand in the energy and extractive industries from continuing activities decreased by 7.4% to 65.3 looks set to continue at high levels.
The US housing market million 2006: 70.5 million and adjusted earnings per continues to weaken and, despite market share gains by the share reduced by 10.3% to 8.7p 2006: 9.7p.
businesses, may play a part in dictating more favourable timing for disposing of the Hardware business.
During the year investment has been made in higher levels of working capital in order to support increased sales During the process of the strategic review the Company activity.
Reported net debt at the end of the period was responded to expressions of interest for the potential 329.9 million, an increase in the year of 25.2 million.
Due diligence access was provided to a small number of parties with active Reflecting the Groups underlying performance, the Board discussions continuing with one.
In the light of this has proposed to pay a final dividend of 3.0p per share, process and the significant rise in the share price on bringing the total for the year to 4.5p per share the 31 May 2007, FKI announced that it had been approached same level as last year.
The final dividend, if agreed in relation to an offer for the Company at around 130p by shareholders, will be paid on 5 October 2007 per ordinary share.
The Board reiterates that there can be to shareholders on the register at 7 September 2007. no certainty that any offer will be made for the Company During the year the acquisition of Harrington Generators or the terms on which such offer will be made.
was completed and the sale of four small businesses On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all employees took place.
This continues the process of active portfolio for their efforts and contribution over the last year.
management, which since the start of the process in 2003 has resulted in the closure of five businesses, the sale of sixteen businesses and the acquisition of five businesses.
03 FKI plc Chairmans statement Gordon Page Chairman
