CHAIRMANS STATEMENT DAVID CALVERLEY PEOPLE The Group employs 4,000 people on whose efforts CHAIRMAN the success of the Group depends.
We have people who have spent many years in the business whose skills and experience would be hard to surpass, as well as those who have more recently joined one of our companies.
I am convinced that we have one of the best teams in the industry and I thank them all for their commitment.
THE BOARD As announced with our half year results, we restructured our board at the end of March to take account of the significant increase in the size of the Group and the consequent need to change our management structure.
Consequently, our main board now comprises the Chief Executive and Finance Director, together with myself Galliford Try has had an exceptional as Chairman and our three independent non-executive year.
We have achieved record financial directors.
Andy Sturgess and Ken Gillespie therefore stepped down from the board to join our new executive results, made a key acquisition in our board which, chaired by the Chief Executive, comprises housebuilding business and joined the managing directors of our major divisions together the FTSE 250 index.
with the Finance Director and Company Secretary.
OUTLOOK Galliford Try has grown substantially in the last two years and is now one of the UKs leading companies in both I am delighted to report that on revenue up 65 per cent the construction and housebuilding markets.
to 1.4 billion the Group achieved a pre exceptional profit before tax up 63 per cent to 53.0 million with The market for construction is expected to continue post exceptional profits up 75 per cent to 60.2 million.
at buoyant levels for the foreseeable future.
The spread Basic earnings per share pre exceptional increased of our work, much of it directed to the programmes 29 per cent to 12.5 pence with post exceptional up essential for the public and regulated sectors to improve 32 per cent to 14.3 pence.
the countrys infrastructure, is well balanced across sectors that are growing and in which we are one The two acquisitions made in our previous financial year of a limited number of qualied providers.
have both delivered profits ahead of expectations.
Linden Homes, acquired in March 2007, has exceeded its profit In housebuilding, our new critical mass in our areas expectations for the first four months of our ownership.
of operation, combined with our business model The integration is going well and we are already seeing of developing individual quality developments, and the benets of our greater critical mass across the South not relying on consortium sites, is serving us well.
With encouraging sales over the summer period, we are well positioned to deliver a good performance The return on average shareholder funds in the year was in the more challenging markets that we now face.
28 per cent and shareholders funds at 30 June 2007 were 306.6 million.
Our increasing focus on affordable housing and regeneration is proving its value as we continue to DIVIDEND win significant schemes, demonstrating the additional The directors have taken into account the current potential of our successful construction and performance and their confidence in the future prospects housebuilding business model.
The opportunities for the Group in determining an appropriate level of exist to increase our market share signicantly.
Accordingly, the directors are recommending a final dividend of 2.2 pence per share, an increase of 22 per We are confident that our strategy will continue to deliver cent on 2006, resulting in a total dividend up 20 per cent sustainable growth.
The final dividend will be paid on 16 November 2007 to shareholders on the register on 19 October 2007.
David Calverley The directors remain committed to a progressive dividend policy which takes into account earnings growth as well as the need for continued investment in the business.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 03
