4 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to be able to report that our results for the I am delighted to welcome Richard Parry-Jones to the year demonstrate a further increase in profitability and Board as a non-executive Director with effect from earnings per share with particularly strong contributions 1 March 2008.
Richard retired from Ford Motor Company from our two largest businesses, Driveline and Aerospace.
at the end of 2007, after 38 years service, where he was Consistent with our objective of increasing the dividend responsible for global production development and group progressively in line with the long term trend in earnings, technology.
I am sure he will make a significant your Board recommends that the dividend for 2007 contribution to GKNs future development.
should be increased from 12.8p to 13.5p per share.
Sir Ian Gibson retired from the Board at the end of 2007.
GKN continued to make significant progress against its Sir Ian had been a non-executive Director of the Company strategic objectives in 2007.
Whilst the economic for six years, for two of which he was Senior Independent uncertainty that characterised the end of 2007 looks set Director.
Sir Ian made an invaluable contribution to the to continue, I believe GKN is as well placed as it can be to strategic development of the Group during a time of withstand the effects of this and to continue on its course significant change.
We thank him for his wise counsel and to provide long term shareholder value.
Our Aerospace support and wish him well in the future.
I am pleased that order book is strong.
Despite the declining rates of growth Sir Peter Williams has taken over the role of Senior in some of our Automotive markets, there remain Independent Director.
considerable growth opportunities particularly in the We remain committed to maintaining a high quality, emerging markets of Asia Pacific, South America and balanced Board of Directors at the head of your Company.
GKNs foresight in reorganising its asset This commitment to quality in people extends throughout base and making long term investment in these regions the organisation and I am particularly pleased with the leaves the Group well positioned to take advantage of this progress that has been made towards ensuring that GKN growth.
In addition, product developments in torque employees worldwide feel they are part of a single family technology and off-highway driveline systems together with common, well understood goals and values.
This is with a strong order book at Sinter Metals provide an important ingredient in our strategy to deliver long opportunities for further progress.
term shareholder value and ensure the continued Equally, the economic conditions should not prevent sustainability of our business.
continuing growth through careful strategic acquisitions.
I share Sir Kevins pride in the achievements of our An example of this is the proposed acquisition of the employees worldwide who, in 2007, did something truly Airbus wing component and sub-assembly plant at Filton extraordinary and contributed an additional $1.7 million in the UK for which we were selected as preferred partner to their local communities.
The project was called GKN by Airbus in the closing weeks of 2007, and which would Mission Everest and is described on pages 46 to 47. substantially increase the size of our Aerospace business.
I urge you to read about it.
GKN has always valued having a strong Board of I am conscious that this is the 249th year since our Directors.
In this context it was particularly pleasing to inception a remarkable achievement by anybodys announce in 2007 the appointment of three new executive standards.
In the true spirit of sustainability, I see no Directors: Marcus Bryson as Chief Executive Aerospace, reason why we should not now have an eye to the next Andrew Reynolds Smith as Chief Executive Powder 250 years.
For the immediate future, however, based on Metallurgy, OffHighway and Industrial Services, and Bill our performance in 2007, the continuing competitiveness Seeger as Finance Director.
All of these were internal of our product technologies and the strength of our appointments and demonstrate the continuing strength of market positions, I am confident that GKN has the our management succession planning.
Also during the resilience to continue to make progress even in the year Nigel Stein, formerly Finance Director, was current challenging economic conditions.
All major business areas are now represented on the Board, with a good balance being maintained between non-executive and executive Directors.
Roy Brown Chairman Roy Brown Chairman
