20435 P1 P16 20 9 07 14:29 Page 2 Chairmans statement This has been a record year for Revenue increased to 1,826.9m will commence on 11 November 2007.
2006 1,463.6m and operating profit Our goal in the rail division is to provide the group and the new financial rose to 118.1m 2006 97.8m.
the highest quality of service combined year has started in line with the profit before tax increased by 19.8%, with financial discipline.
Adjusted consistently led to strong passenger earnings per share increased to 140.7p growth, well controlled costs, and higher 2006 118.4p.
The board proposes a final dividend The aviation services division has had of 47.0p per share payable on a difficult year.
Security disruption at 23 November 2007 to shareholders on all UK airports, particularly Heathrow the register at the close of business on and Gatwick, led to unrecoverable cost 2 November 2007.
This coincided with bad interim dividend of 23.0p, the total weather and the loss of some contracts, dividend of 70.0p represents an increase which led to a significant fall in profit.
of 25.0% year on year and results in a Overall, our strategy centres on a high dividend cover of 2.0 times.
Returns to quality of customer service, which shareholders were further supplemented enabled the division to win some valuable during the year by the share buy back contracts towards the end of the year.
programme, with 2.4 million shares The new contract with British Airways purchased, at a cost of 55.6m.
for the provision of ground handling services at Aberdeen, Edinburgh, The bus division performed strongly, Glasgow and Manchester airports both in the regulated operations in should help the division to recovery.
London and in deregulated services elsewhere.
In London, we negotiated a The board started the year with number of contract extensions, increased Keith Ludeman, former chief executive services to match the western extension of our rail division, taking over as group of the congestion charging zone, and chief executive.
The group is fortunate won some significant route contracts to have a sucessor to Christopher Moyes Sir Patrick Brown from our competitors.
We expanded our of such ability and wide experience Chairman operations into East London with the of the bus and rail industries.
At the end 6 September 2007 acquisition of Docklands Minibuses of the financial year, Ian Butcher, our in September 2006 and Blue Triangle group finance director, retired after at the end of June 2007.
We continue 11 years with the group, and was to provide first class performance, often succeeded by Nicholas Swift, who featuring at the top of the TfL quality joined us on 17 July 2007.
I thank Ian tables and earning bonuses under for his outstanding contribution to the the Quality Incentive Regime.
group, and all of our employees for Our deregulated bus operations also making the past year such a success.
enjoyed a good year, with lower costs The year has also been a sad one and buoyant revenue leading to higher for the group.
Martin Ballinger and operating profits across most of our Christopher Moyes, both former businesses.
By buying Marchwood Buses chief executives, passed away.
From in October 2006, we extended the the beginnings of the buy-out of Go South Coast operations into the the Northern General Transport Southampton area.
Our decentralised Company from the National Bus philosophy across these deregulated Company, they built the group into operations, supporting local brands the dynamic company of today.
We miss for local communities, allows us to tailor them, and their wisdom and humanity.
our services to meet the specic needs Si monumentum requiris, circumspice.
The new financial year has started The groups rail division did particularly inline with the boards expectations.
It benefited from a Our aim is to continue with our strategy full years contribution from the which combines organic and acquisitive Southeastern franchise, which started growth with financial discipline and operations on 1 April 2006 and has since improving returns to shareholders, performed strongly.
During the year, our including renewal of the authority for Southern business secured its existing the share buy back programme at the franchise to September 2009 and won forthcoming annual general meeting.
the contract to operate the Gatwick We are well positioned to make further Express from May 2008 as part of the progress in the new year.
DfT Brighton Main Line Route Utilisation Strategy.
In June 2007, we won a third franchise, this time to run the new West Midlands rail network.
It will be branded London Midland and operations Before amortisation and exceptional items 2 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007
