3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Results member of our audit committee.
He formerly served as finance It is my welcome task to report a very good set of figures for the director for two different listed companies in the Jardine 52 weeks to 29 April 2007.
The results this year include a first Matheson group and was more recently chief financial officer of time contribution of 34 weeks from Hardys & Hansons, which we Sea Containers Ltd. We look forward to benefiting greatly from his acquired in September 2006, and a full year from Belhaven, which broad property, retail and financial experience.
includes 22 weeks of non-comparable trading.
All profit figures in this statement are shown before exceptional items.
In April we appointed Jonathan Lawson as managing director of our local pubs division.
This followed our decision to split Pub Our revenue for the year increased by 12% to 917.5m and Company into two specialist divisions, to provide more focus to operating profit by 14% to 218.1m.
We therefore raised our the business and to allow the potential further expansion of our profit margin once again and it now stands at 23.8%.
I am managed estate without prejudicing our flat line management particularly pleased that all four of our trading divisions produced structure.
Jonathan was retail operations director of Sainsburys profit figures which were ahead of last years, as this underlines convenience stores and will, we believe, bring a valuable fresh the strength we draw from our business model.
perspective to running our local pubs.
Profit before tax and exceptional items increased by 17% to These two arrivals followed two departures.
I thanked Alan 139.8m and our earnings per share by 16% to 64.8p.
This is the Bowkett for his service as a non-executive director in last years thirteenth successive year in which we have delivered compound report and he left after the AGM.
I would now like to do the same annual growth in earnings per share of 10 per cent or more.
for Mark Angela, who was managing director of Pub Company until leaving us in April this year.
Mark was with us for just over three years, during which time our managed estate expanded Dividend greatly, particularly through the acquisition of the Laurel pubs in The board has taken the decision to increase the total dividend for 2004.
I would like to thank him for his contribution to the the year by 14% which will help to raise the yield for continued success of our Pub Company during his time with us.
We recommend a final dividend payment of 16.45p which will produce a total dividend of 22.9p for the year.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 10 September to those People shareholders on the register at the close of business on 3 August.
Our business is all about people and we have a huge number of very good people.
Some have worked for the company for many years and some have joined in the last year, but everyones Acquisition efforts towards the well-being and success of Greene King are We acquired Hardys & Hansons plc on 5 September last year.
They fully appreciated and crucial to our future.
I would like to thank all had a long history as an integrated brewer and pub company, of our people for being part of a proud and determined team.
based at Kimberley in Nottinghamshire, and their assets included 268 pubs, of which 83 were run under management and 185 as tenancies or leaseholds.
Many Hardys & Hansons people have joined our business, and have been welcomed to contribute towards our future success, and the properties have now been fully integrated into our estate.
Disposal As part of the continual process of wanting to improve the quality of our trading assets, we have sold 191 pubs during the year.
This included one particular package of 155 properties, which were widely spread across our trading area and raised 56.5m.
The board TIM BRIDGE We have two new members of the board this year.
Ian Durant CHAIRMAN 2 July 2007 joined us as a non-executive director in March and has become a GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
