04 05 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Richard Pym I am pleased to report that Halfords has delivered a strong set of international expansion strategy and new trading formats, results.
Sales growth of 9.1% has been achieved which, with including the stand-alone Bikehut proposition.
reduced margin dilution, has generated earnings per share growth of 9.3%.
Paul McClenaghan joined Halfords in 2005 as Trading Director.
In his time at Halfords, Paul has implemented strategies focused on These results, together with the Boards confidence in the developing Halfords market leading positions in its core markets, business strategy, enable the Board to recommend a final as well as expanding the product and service offerings into new dividend of 9.50 pence, which, with the interim dividend of markets.
4.35 pence, takes the total dividend for the year to 13.85 pence, representing growth of 8.6% on last years dividend of Nick and Paul join a strong Board team.
The business is very 12.75 pence.
effectively led by our Chief Executive, Ian McLeod, and our capable non-executive team of Nigel Wilson, Keith Harris and Bill Following Nick Carters resignation, the Board was pleased to Ronald bring a wide range of experience to Board discussions.
announce the appointment of Nick Wharton as Finance Director, with effect from 3 February 2007.
Paul McClenaghan was also The entire Halfords team, from colleagues based in stores through appointed to the Board with effect from 31 March 2007.
On behalf to those in our head office and distribution centres, share a of the Board I would like to thank Nick Carter for his contribution common purpose of delivering market leading knowledge, choice to Halfords and wish him well in his future career.
and service to our customers.
Their hard work and dedication has generated these strong results.
Nick Wharton is a Chartered Accountant and has been a member of the senior management team at Halfords for five years, having The Halfords brand was established in 1907, and it is encouraging played pivotal roles in both Halfords separation from Boots in our centenary year 2007 that the business is trading Company plc in 2002 and Halfords listing on the London Stock successfully and we have every reason to be confident in the Exchange in 2004.
Through his role as Business Development future of Halfords.
Director, Nick has been instrumental in developing the Richard Pym, Chairman 6 June 2007 SERVICE EXPERTISE With over 1.2m fitting jobs completed during the year, Halfords wefit Service continues to enhance our product offering, differentiates us from our competitors and positions store colleagues as experts in their field.
Halfords comprehensive training programme delivered through a combination of on the job training and 42 designated training stores has resulted in: 2,000 trained and accredited child seat fitters 1,500 specialists delivering our unique sat nav set up and demo 700 trained hard wire in-car entertainment fitters COMPREHENSIVE SERVICE OFFERINGS The hard work and dedication of the entire Halfords team has generated these strong results.
