Halma p. l. c. 2007 03 Chairmans statement Another good year with continuing investment in people, innovation, market development and acquisitions.
The last financial year has again seen good progress for All of these investments, together with our investments in Halma.
Revenue from continuing operations increased 14% to strengthening our selling and distribution resources, feed 354.6 million 310.8 million in 2006 with underlying organic and support our strategy for healthy organic growth, so it is growth of 8.1% despite adverse currency effects of 2.3% i. e. encouraging to see that this focus continues to bear fruit.
Profit before tax and amortisation of This also gives us even more confidence that we can deliver acquired intangibles on continuing operations was 66.1 million significant value for shareholders from acquisitions that fit our 2006: 58.1 million an increase of 14%, organic growth at strategic framework and meet our strict acquisition criteria.
This organic profit growth Furthermore we have significant financial resource at our compares with an equivalent figure of 14% in 2006 where we disposal to do more.
benefited from the rebound in the Water business, so in the year In March, Andrew Walker stepped down from the Board and under review we faced slightly tougher comparables.
Statutory I should like to record our thanks for all his contribution during profit before tax increased by 11% to 62.6 million.
The Board is his four-year tenure as a non-executive Director of the Group recommending a final dividend of 4.33p per share, an increase and wish him well for the future.
of 5% for the year and our 28th consecutive year of dividend increases of 5% or more.
Our dividend cover has increased to On behalf of the Board, I should also like to thank all our 1.74 times 2006: 1.61 times.
Return on total invested capital employees for producing such a good performance.
In summary, another good year with continuing investment We have also made a number of acquisitions during the year: in people, innovation, market development and acquisitions.
Mikropack, Baldwin Environmental and Labsphere in the Health This, together with strong and effective leadership from our and Analysis sector and Tritech and System Technologies in management team, gives us confidence for the future.
In total we invested 27 million in acquisitions with a maximum potential of a further 5 million in deferred consideration.
After the positive action taken in the Geoff Unwin Chairman previous year, no disposals were made during the period under review.
At the end of the year our net debt was 7.7 million.
During the year we have seen a continuous flow of new products, some of which are detailed in this report.
We are also beginning to see results from our investments in China.
During the year seven additional companies within the Group established a local presence there and during the coming year we expect several more to commence.
Our investment in people continues apace with enthusiastic attendance at our management training programmes and it is pleasing to see the energy with which attendees return to their companies, refreshed, invigorated, having learnt much, but more importantly, with a network of colleagues who actively support each other on all aspects of our business such as selling, innovation, technology and quality.
