Chairmans Statement Basic earnings per share from continuing operations for the year increased by 17% compared to last year.
In line with our policy of supporting a progressive and sustainable dividend, the Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.40 pence per share, which would bring the full year dividend to 5.00 pence per share, representing an increase of 15% over 2006.
People As we announced in June, Denis Waxman has decided to retire at our Annual General Meeting AGM in November.
Being the last occasion that I shall report to you with Denis as Chief Executive, I would like to take this opportunity to formally recognise Denis achievement.
Denis was one of the founders of the recruitment business that began in 1969.
Since then, he has developed the business into a leading international specialist recruitment group Bob Lawson, Chairman that now employs 7,753 staff in 25 countries.
It is a unique accomplishment to not only have co-founded the business, but then to have developed it to the size and international reach that is Hays today.
During his leadership, Denis has provided A year of strong inspiration to each and every one of our staff.
From the Board and all our staff, we wish him and his wife, Carole, many, many years of happy and well-deserved retirement.
progress We are delighted that Alistair Cox, formerly Chief Executive officer of Xansa plc, joined the Group as Chief Executive Designate Highlights on 1 September.
Alistair brings proven leadership skills, a broad I am pleased to report another year of strong progress for Hays.
international background and significant experience of leading At the beginning of the year, there were two principal objectives.
I am confident that he will build Firstly, to continue the excellent momentum in the International on the success of Denis legacy and deliver the next phase of business, which now represents 34% of the Groups net fees, Hays development.
and secondly, to accelerate the investment in our United Kingdom Brian Wallace, who has served the Board as both Chairman of & Ireland business.
On the first objective, we achieved excellent the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director, will be growth in the International business extending our network, retiring at the AGM.
Brian has been a vital member of our Board particularly in Continental Europe and Asia.
On the second throughout his six years, and has enlivened and enriched Board objective, we increased the number of consultants in the United discussion with wise counsel and observation, particularly through Kingdom & Ireland by 555, which represents an 18% increase Hays transformational process.
On behalf of the Board, I thank him compared to last year.
In addition, we acquired James Harvard, for his outstanding contribution and he has our very good wishes which gives the Group a significant position in the growing for the future.
On Brians retirement, Lesley Knox has agreed to Pharmaceutical recruitment market, together with an excellent act as Senior Independent Director on behalf of the Board.
entry vehicle into the exciting Japanese market.
We have been very pleased to welcome Paul Harrison to Over the last decade, Hays has quadrupled the size of its our Board as a non-executive Director.
Paul is Group Finance specialist recruitment business, both in terms of net fees and Director of The Sage Group plc and brings depth of financial profits, principally through organic growth.
Looking ahead, your and international expertise to the Boards debates.
He will also Board sees substantial opportunities in the specialist recruitment chair the Audit Committee on Brians retirement.
markets across the world and views the long term prospects for I have spent considerable time this year visiting our ofces.
Our strategic priorities are to: On each visit I have been struck by the enthusiasm, professionalism strengthen our market leading positions in our core specialisms and commitment of everyone I have met.
These qualities permeate in the United Kingdom and Australia whilst aggressively growing our culture and are the foundations of our success.
Our people our newer specialisms: and work hard supporting our clients and candidates to an exceptional develop our businesses in the major markets of Continental Europe standard and I thank them for a job very well done.
and the emerging markets of Asia.
We have proven that our business model works in these large and developing markets.
Board Governance Our emphasis now is to invest to build scale and market leadership.
After three years of conducting our Board evaluation internally, Egon Zehnder conducted the 2007 review and the conclusions Growth in operating profit over 16 years m have been considered by the Board.
During 2008, the Board will focus on strategic implementation, senior talent management 220 and IT innovation.
200 Egon Zehnder also assisted in the individual evaluation of 180 each Director.
This has been provided to the Senior Independent Director in respect of the performance evaluation of the Chairman 160 and to the Chairman in respect of the evaluation of the remaining 140 Directors.
This has enabled constructive feedback to be given 120 to each Director.
100 80 60 40 20 0 Bob Lawson, Chairman This is like-for-like LFL growth which represents organic growth of continuing activities at constant currency.
No adjustment is made for the one less trading day in 2007.
Increase in consultants is shown on a closing basis, comparing 30 June 2007 with 30 June 2006 on a like-for-like basis, which excludes the impact of acquisitions and disposals.
com 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Directors Report Business Review 04 Business Overview 06 Executive Review 13 Putting our International network to work 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3
