Headlam Group plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report that 2007 proved to be another successful year.
Therefore, your board is recommending a final dividend of 17.75p Each of our five business sectors and eight product categories in the UK per share, an increase of 16.0% on last year.
This increases the total performed positively and our businesses in Continental Europe dividend for the year by 14.6% from 20.15p to 23.10p.
maintained the trend of continued improvement.
This years proposal, which represents 16 years of continuous Revenue from the groups activities amounted to 544.7 million, an improvement, is equivalent to a payout ratio of 62.3% 2006: 57.4% increase of 6.8% on last year and profit before tax increased by 3.7% to compared with basic earnings per share and places us ahead of our 45.2 million.
Earnings and dividend If approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Basic earnings per share increased by 5.7% from 35.1p to 37.1p.
Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2008 to shareholders Adjusted for the amortisation of intangibles, which amounted to on the register at 6 June 2008.
1.5 million in 2007 compared with 0.7 million for the previous year, earnings increased by 7.6% from 35.6 pence to 38.3 pence.
Strategy The performance in 2007 has further enhanced our position as the As communicated last year, it is our intention to maintain a progressive leading distributor of floorcoverings in the UK and Continental Europe.
dividend increase in order to achieve a payout ratio of approximately The groups strategy remains unchanged and we will maintain our focus 67% by the end of 2009.
We gave this commitment since we believe on the development of our floorcovering business.
We will continue to the cumulative effect of increasing dividends is an important method by invest in the infrastructure of the business to increase capacity and which we can enhance shareholder returns.
improve material handling techniques where appropriate.
In addition, we The Year in Review Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 I am pleased to report that during October 2007, we appointed David Our five business sectors Grove as a non-executive director.
David brings a wide range of experience and skills to our board and along with Dick Peters and Mike in the UK and three OLeary, provides us with a non-executive team with a wealth of fresh talent and advice.
businesses in Continental Employees The autonomous nature of our business operations has allowed us to Europe maintained their develop a culture of individuality combined with the benefit of wide ranging opportunities derived from a group structure.
We have a policy continued improvement of internal development and promotion, wherever possible, providing our employees with a variety of options to enhance their careers.
Over a number of years, this has resulted in many will evaluate and make acquisitions of floorcovering businesses where instances where employees have developed into senior sales and we believe they can contribute to our strategic position and enhance management roles.
profitability, whether in the UK or Continental Europe.
We wish to thank all our management and employees for their Operations contribution to the groups ongoing success.
Fundamental to our ongoing success is the relationship with the leading worldwide flooring manufacturers, who in conjunction with our Purchase of own shares individual management teams, continue to develop product for our During 2007, the board decided to commence a share buy-back respective markets.
This ensures that the independent flooring retailer programme, to return cash to shareholders and improve balance and contractor are at the forefront of all new floorcovering products.
Further to our announcement on 25 May 2007 regarding the introduction of a share buy-back programme, I can The groups structure allows the individual management teams of 50 report that as at 31 December 2007, the company has acquired businesses in the UK to operate autonomously and focus on their 3,838,006 shares at an average price of 5.65 per share.
respective geographical and product areas.
Through a combined total of 364 external sales people, we launched 3,715 new products into As at 17 March 2008, a further 550,000 shares have been acquired independent flooring retailers and contractors, in conjunction with at an average price of 4.01 per share, bringing the total expenditure 794,000 new point of sale displays and sample books.
on the purchase of own shares since May 2007 to 23.9 million.
The management teams in our individual businesses are clearly Outlook measured and incentivised on the performance of their specific The group continues to invest in developing the infrastructure, to allow responsibilities.
Whilst encouraging the autonomy of business our individual businesses to take advantage of market opportunities.
operations, each team operates to a strategy relevant to their With the management teams of these businesses clearly focused on the businesses own market position and complies with consistent objectives before them, we are confident of achieving another year of operational procedures and financial disciplines.
It is particularly encouraging that our three Continental European businesses in France, Switzerland and the Netherlands have continued the trend of the last three years and further increased revenue and profitability.
Graham Waldron, Chairman The board Having been a member of our board for nearly nine years serving in his role as the senior independent director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Tom Anderson elected to step down from his responsibilities during May 2007.
Our thanks go to Tom for his help and support over the years and we send him our best wishes for his retirement.
