Chairmans statement Our resilient brands will strengthen their market positions and performance as they comprehensively satisfy the preferences of our customers.
2 2 The year was difficult for HMV Group, Further changes to the Group Board were: and we performed below our expectations.
Christopher Rogers, Group Finance Director Twelve months ago, I said that we anticipated Whitbread plc, joined as a Non-Executive significant changes in our markets, and that the Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Group had begun a period of transition as we in October 2006, and brings a wealth of relevant prepared our businesses to be more resilient to experience to our Group.
the twin challenges of rapidly changing consumer Alan Giles, former CEO, and Brian McLaughlin, behaviour and intense competition from newer Non-Executive Director, retired from the Board channels.
Market shifts were even more severe in September 2006. than predicted.
Physical sales of music on the high street remain under the greatest pressure, Steve Knott, MD of HMV UK & Ireland, left the although we saw the positive impact of our Group and retired from the Board in January simplied, lower pricing.
The role of Managing Director of HMV and the Internet gained share.
However, UK & Ireland has been assumed by the Ottakars was successfully integrated with Groups CEO.
the Waterstones business during the year, A strategic and operational review was completed and this acquisition reinforces our belief in in March 2007.
The Board believes the Group the importance of market leadership.
has a comprehensive and well-balanced strategy The Groups profit before tax and exceptional items to better cope with the challenges that lie ahead.
Basic earnings per share were 4.0p This strategy has three important strands: protecting and earnings per share before exceptional items our core business, saving costs aggressively and were 8.7p.
The Board has recommended a final growing in new channels and related products.
dividend of 5.6p per Ordinary Share.
Together with The environment for entertainment and books the interim of 1.8p per share, the total dividend for retailing will remain highly competitive.
However, the year is 7.4p, the same as last year.
with aggressive plans, focused leadership and A great deal of our attention has been focused the continued commitment and dedication of on leadership talent on the Board and in critical our employees, our resilient brands will strengthen management positions.
Foremost amongst these their market positions and performance as appointments was the naming of Simon Fox as they comprehensively satisfy the preferences CEO in September 2006.
Simon joined from of our customers.
Kesa Electricals plc, where he was Chief Operating Carl Symon officer.
His knowledge and experience in Chairman deep-range retailing across several sales channels gives the Board confidence that we have the 27 June 2007 right executive leadership to effect a programme of change which will ultimately transform the Group into a world-class multi-channel retailer.
3 3 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
