04 Chairmans Statement Strategy for growth These results represent a strong start to Home Retail Groups new life as an independent company.
They are particularly pleasing in a year As presented at the time of demerger, we during which we achieved the successful demerger from GUS plc and have a very clear strategy for driving the growth of our business.
were faced with some difficult conditions in our markets.
We believe our extensive product In presenting Home Retail Groups first portfolio, market leadership and annual report to shareholders, I am purchasing scale provide us with delighted to report a successful trading opportunities to develop our product performance over the past year.
range and offering in core areas.
This also allows us to ensure the most efficient and I am pleased to highlight that we have cost-effective sourcing of products achieved a 10% share of the 58 billion and services.
home and general merchandise market, extending our leading position.
This has We intend to use the strength of the been delivered through the successful Argos and Homebase brands, the combination and leverage of Argos and flexibility of their formats and the Homebase, two distinctive, advantage of their shared infrastructure to complementary retail brands that are increase our market share in targeted household names in the UK.
We have also large product markets.
successfully demerged from GUS plc to We are also planning to broaden our become a standalone FTSE 100 company.
customer reach through the opening of Financial performance around 30 new Argos stores and 15 new Homebase stores a year.
The combined The results you will see in this report Argos and Homebase portfolios are cover periods both before and after the already approaching 1,000 stores.
They include certain financial impacts of GUS ownership of our Finally, we will extend and exploit our business up to the point of demerger.
The leadership in the multi-channel service most recent reported statutory results pioneered so successfully by Argos - also cover a shorter period than a full combining stores, Internet and telephone year, due to a change in our year-end.
We ordering and home delivery, to provide have therefore included pro forma the highest level of convenience.
Over measures to provide greater one-third of all Argos sales are now comparability.
ordered and delivered across more than one channel, and we are also using our On a pro forma basis, sales grew by 6% to skill and scale to support Homebases 5,851m, benchmark operating profit by multi-channel development.
8% to 359.4m, pre-tax profit by 12% to 376.7m and earnings per share by 14% Underpinning all of this is a strong to 29.3p.
The improvement in year-end commitment to customers which is an net cash to 60m, against a pro forma net important driver of financial performance debt of 200m at 31 March 2006, in the retail sector.
Through Argos and includes the effect of strong working Homebase, Home Retail Group works capital management and improved profit hard to provide the highest quality performance, together with an of service.
approximate 100m benefit as a result of the change in year-end.
Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.0p per Home Retail Group share, making 13.0p for the year.
This trading performance represents a strong start to Home Retail Groups life as an independent company and is, I believe, particularly commendable for having been achieved in the face of difficult market conditions.
Argos now has more than 1,000 quick pay kiosks across its store portfolio 05 Strengthening the team At the time of the demerger we were fortunate to have John Coombe and Andy Hornby join the Board of Home Retail Group.
I am also delighted to welcome Penny Hughes as a further non-executive director.
Penny, who joined in December 2006, has a wealth of experience in retail and consumer marketing and is already proving a strong addition to the Board.
One of the strengths of Home Retail Group is the experience of its management team, without which the transition period to a public company would undoubtedly have been more difficult.
We are therefore particularly Oliver Stocken Looking forward grateful to our group human resources Chairman director, Mike Sibbald, who, after These strong results, delivered in a providing the Group with 11 years of challenging market and while going commitment, expertise and guidance, through a successful demerger process, supported the business through the are further testament to our colleagues demerger prior to his retirement in April dedication led by chief executive, Terry 2007.
I am very pleased to welcome Duddy.
I would therefore like to thank David Guise as his successor, who joins us Terry and the team for their hard work from Diageo.
Corporate responsibility Home Retail Group currently employs some 53,000 people across the business.
We continue to make good progress in The performance of our business rests the management of the complex upon the passion and commitment of all environmental, ethical and social issues our colleagues.
I am therefore extremely that affect our business.
For example, we pleased that over 30,000 employees are are moving forward in delivering against now shareholders in Home Retail Group stretching recycling targets across the and are able to share in the Groups long business and in reducing energy term success.
You will find more information about our approach to Home Retail Group is approaching the corporate responsibility later in new financial year from a position of this report.
This, together with our strategy for growth, means that we Home Retail Group plays an active role in are well placed to make further progress community activities, supporting charities in what we expect to be another and working directly with local and challenging year.
Taking part in these activities is popular with our colleagues, who feel that they are contributing to Oliver Stocken their communities and that the Group is supporting them in doing so.
Chairman HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Chairmans Statement 06 Business Review Strategy & Progress 2% We are pleased to report that both Argos and Homebase have performed well, benefiting from the shared infrastructure and capabilities of the Group while continuing to invest for future growth.
27% The combination of a strong operational performance, together with a 71% clear strategy for growth, means we are well positioned and confident of making further progress in what we expect to be another challenging year for UK consumer spending.
Group sales 2007 % Argos Homebase Financial Services 1% Terry Duddy 14% Chief Executive 85% Group benchmark operating profit 2007 % Argos Home Retail Groups vision is to be a We also plan to grow dividends for Homebase leading retailing group that delivers shareholders broadly in line with earnings, Financial Services long-term, sector-leading sales and subject to the investment needs of the profit growth.
We will do this by business and an acceptable level of This data is on a 52-week pro forma basis leveraging our combined strengths to dividend cover.
We will seek to maintain support our retail brands Argos and an appropriate capital structure, financing Homebase.
Key elements of this our operations through a combination of strategy are: developing world-class, low retained profits, bank borrowings and cost sourcing capabilities that enables property leases.
Home Retail Group to deliver even We aim to act responsibly and ethically greater value to customers: and towards all of our stakeholders, including delivering end-to-end solutions that give our customers, colleagues, suppliers and our customers convenient ways to order, business partners and the communities pay for and obtain the goods we sell.
Our approach to corporate The corporate objective of Home Retail responsibility is summarised later in the Group is to deliver sustainable returns for Business Review.
We believe that this all its stakeholders.
Our aim is to deliver approach will assist Home Retail Group growth in total shareholder return that at in achieving its objectives for least matches the top quartile of shareholder return.
comparable listed companies over the medium to long-term.
Home Retail Group aims to achieve this by delivering sales and profit growth throughout the group, supported by investment programmes that give returns in excess of our cost of capital.
We recognise that these objectives can be affected in the short-term by external economic, social and political factors.
However, we believe that consistent investment in businesses with competitive advantage will provide sustainable returns to stakeholders.
Home Retail Group is the number one retailer of housewares in the UK 07 Nature of business Argos and Homebase are supported by an in-house financial services business, which Home Retail Group is the UKs leading provides a range of credit and insurance home and general merchandise retailer products to their customers through all with pro forma annual sales of over customer facing channels of stores, online 5.8 billion.
It sells products under two and over the phone.
Home Retail Group distinctive and complementary retail Financial Services is one of the largest brands, Argos and Homebase, which are store card providers in the UK, with over both household names in the UK.
one million active store card customers.
Argos is a unique retailer recognised for Home Retail Group has a leading 10% choice, value and convenience.
It sells share of the home and general over 17,000 general merchandise products merchandise market in the UK, giving it for the home, all of which are set out in significant purchasing scale and the its twice-yearly 1,700 page catalogue opportunity to further increase market which is at the heart of its proposition.
This scale, combined with its global Customers can purchase products through sourcing skills, ensures value for the its network of 680 stores, online and over customer whilst supporting profitability.
the phone, with the option of picking up The shared infrastructure in the Group their purchases from a store or having provides support for Argos and them delivered direct.
Argos Internet site, Homebases customer propositions, www.
co. uk, is the second most reduces their overall operating costs and visited Internet retail site in the UK.
enables speedy development of profitable Argos serves over 130 million customers routes to growth.
This has enabled the per year through its stores and takes 4 Group to increase its market share in a million customer orders per year either competitive retail market place.
On average, 17 million UK households, or around twoMarkets in which we operate thirds of the population, have an Argos Home Retail Group operates in the catalogue at home at any time.
growing general merchandise and home Homebase is the UKs second largest enhancement markets in the UK and Eire.
home improvement retailer and is According to leading research sources in recognised for choice, style and customer 2006, the UK general merchandise market service across the wider home had sales of 26 billion and the home enhancement market.
It has 310 large, enhancement market had sales of out-of-town stores, which sell over 32 billion.
30,000 products, as well as a growing Internet offering.
It also offers its customers the convenience of home delivery for bulky, high value items.
Homebase serves over 70 million customers per year through its stores.
The categories and the overlap between the Argos and Homebase businesses are summarised in the following table: Product markets Argos Homebase Group position Market size Home Enhancement Housewares Number 1 8.9bn Furniture Number 1 8.4bn Home Improvement Number 2 11.4bn DIY fitted kitchens bathrooms Horticulture, Garden Furniture Number 2 3.1bn and Outdoor Living General Merchandise Small Domestic Appliances Number 1 1.4bn Consumer Electronics Number 3 14.8bn Large Domestic Appliances Number 3 4.0bn Toys Number 1 1.8bn Jewellery Number 1 3.1bn Sports and Leisure Equipment Number 1 1.2bn Note: all market positions are for calendar year 2006 and by retail sales value except jewellery, which is measured by volume.
HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Strategy & Progress 08 Our leading market positions provide significant purchasing scale which help contribute to excellent value for the customer.
For example, Home Retail Group is the UKs leading retailer of housewares, furniture, small domestic appliances, sports and leisure equipment, jewellery and toys.
We are also the UKs second largest retailer of home improvement goods and gardenrelated products, and the third largest retailer of consumer electronics and large domestic appliances.
Many products are sold through both the Argos and Homebase businesses.
Home Retail Group sold more than a quarter of a million televisions in the run up to the 2006 World Cup 09 Business Review Strategy & Progress continued Competitive position Strong retail brands with large customer bases Home Retail Group faces competition The Group operates two of the UKs from many players in many different strongest retail brands with Argos being product categories.
They can be the leading general merchandise retailer 16% summarised as: and Homebase being the second largest 27% specialist multiples, such as B&Q in home improvement retailer.
Although 50% home improvement, Currys and Comet there is some overlap between their 34% 71% in consumer electronics and domestic customer bases, each business is strong in appliances, Woolworths in toys and distinct consumer segments.
wider general merchandise and The two retail brands allow the Group to Group sales mix H. Samuel in jewellery: reach a broad range of customers in the Home enhancement specialist independents, such as regional UK and to present similar product ranges Electrical goods and local chains selling single product to them in two different shopping Toys, jewellery, sports ranges, such as toys and jewellery.
With environments, thus maximising the and leisure equipment some exceptions, this group of opportunity to increase market share.
competitors is generally losing share: Market-leading position supermarkets, such as Tesco, Sales of over 5.8 billion in the last full J Sainsbury and ASDA, which have financial year ranked Home Retail Group 23% 31% been growing share in certain parts of 27% as the leading home and general the non-food, non-clothing market, merchandise retailer in the UK.
71% building on their regular footfall and 46% The Group has market-leading positions the increased space given to these in a wide range of product categories: it is ranges: and the UKs leading retailer of housewares, Argos sales mix online retailers.
Currently represent furniture, small domestic appliances, toys, Home enhancement only a small but growing share of the jewellery and sports and leisure Electrical goods non-food, non-clothing market.
It is also the UKs second Toys, jewellery, sports largest retailer of home improvement Home Retail Groups markets are and leisure equipment goods and garden related products and expected to continue to be highly third largest retailer of consumer competitive.
Our leading market position, electronics and large domestic appliances.
together with our successful formats 5% such as using catalogues and mezzanines, Purchasing, sourcing and supply for example, may represent attractive chain scale opportunities for some of our Home Retail Groups market-leading 27% 33% 40% competitors.
By leveraging the strengths position means it has the scale of 71% of our businesses and by delivering on our merchandise procurement that strategy for growth, the Board believe 22% enables it to develop important and that Home Retail Group will continue to long-term relationships with suppliers.
This leads to enhanced cost benefits Homebase sales mix and the ability to source exclusive DIY decorating Key strengths products or to obtain advantageous Gardening The Board believe that Home Retail quantities of products that are in Other home enhancement Groups key strengths include: short supply.
Other These scale efficiencies and supplier relationships have been used by the This data is on a 52-week pro forma basis Group to deliver value for money to consumers across the broad range of products it sells, while supporting profitability in a highly competitive market place.
The Board believe that Home Retail Groups scale, sourcing advantage and supply chain infrastructure will be a key determinant of its long-term success in the UK retail market.
HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Strategy & Progress 10 Business Review Strategy & Progress continued 990 Choice and value-led product offering Shared infrastructure and 952 1000 879 Home Retail Groups proposition is to logistics expertise 834 796 800 800 offer customers choice and value across a Argos and Homebase derive significant 310 297 wide range of products.
competitive advantage from their ability 287 680 278 655 600 600 273 to leverage a shared infrastructure in the 592 Argos offers a breadth of product 556 523 Group.
This infrastructure supports their 400 400 categories and a level of choice within brand propositions, reduces their overall each product market that the Board operating costs and increases the speed 200 200 consider is not equalled by any UK with which each business can develop 03 04 05 06 07 competitor.
As a catalogue based retailer, 0 profitable routes to growth.
It has Argos is able to present a very broad enabled the Group businesses to enter Number of stores range of products to its customers new product categories quickly and Argos cost effectively.
cost effectively and to rapidly build Homebase Homebase also offers a wide choice market share.
Expanding the store networks is a key within the product ranges that it sells.
driver of growth, with a further 38 stores Key areas of shared infrastructure include: added in the year Under Home Retail Group ownership, global sourcing operations, supplier Homebase has broadened its product management and related services and offering to encompass products that were processes: home delivery services: already being sold by Argos and has customer service operations: catalogue significantly improved the range of production: financial services: and other 5,851 products it sells as well as the level of 6000 6000 5,510 support functions including property and 5,313 availability within its stores.
5000 5000 Integrated multi-channel offering Experienced management team 4000 4000 The fully integrated nature of Argos 3,297 delivering a long-term track record multi-channel offering differentiates it 3000 3000 of growth from almost all of its UK retail Home Retail Groups management team 2000 2000 competitors.
A fully integrated multiincludes a wealth of experience of service, 1000 1000 channel retail offering requires the built from both within the Group and 03 04 05 06 07 support of a substantial and highly 0 across the wider retail sector.
As well as a complex supply chain system, which the long-term track record of growth, the Sales - continuing operations m Board believe is difficult for competitors management team has successfully Argos to replicate.
Within Argos, regardless of restructured the Group while at the same Homebase whether the customer has made a time integrating the Homebase business.
Financial Services purchase in store, online or over the Sales increased at both Argos and Homebase in the phone, and irrespective of which delivery Argos has a long-term track record of year, despite some difficult market conditions method the customer prefers, the overall growth under the existing management.
experience is integrated and considered Since the financial year of the acquisition highly efficient by customers.
Home by GUS plc on 31 March 1999, sales have Retail Group is positioned to benefit from grown from 1.9 billion to 4.2 billion 7.9% 7.8% continued strong growth in retail Internet and operating profit before exceptional 6.1% 8 7.0% 6.0% 7 sales, as the Internet is an integral part of items has increased from 122m to 6 its multi-channel offering and therefore 325m for the year to 3 March 2007.
500 500 422 fully supported by the Groups supply Following its acquisition, Homebases 386 359 400 400 332 chain infrastructure.
total sales have been increased by 13% between 2004 and 2007.
This multi-channel capability is also 300 300 230 increasingly a source of competitive 200 200 advantage for Homebase.
These products are delivered using the Group ordering 100 100 and home delivery infrastructure.
In 0 03 04 05 06 07 addition, the Argos online capability has been leveraged to provide Homebase with Benchmark operating profit m a cost-efficient, transactional Internet site and margin % -continuing operations providing a range of home-related Argos products to the Homebase customer.
Homebase Financial Services Central Activities The increase in operating profit in the year reflects both a strong operational and financial performance 05 onwards under IFRS 06 and 07 are on a 52-week pro forma basis 11 Home delivery provides convenience for the customer and underpins the Groups strategy to increase market share in a number of product markets including furniture, sports and leisure equipment, large consumer electronics, large domestic appliances, kitchens and bathrooms.
Making over seven million deliveries a year, equivalent to one in six UK homes, Home Retail Group is the largest non-food retailer by number of deliveries.
We do this through five dedicated warehouses covering space of over two million square feet, and for larger goods via our fleet of Argosowned delivery vehicles.
Home Retail Group uses a fleet of delivery vehicles to ensure swift delivery of products to Homebase and Argos customers HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Strategy & Progress 12 Business Review Strategy & Progress continued Strategy for growth 3.
Expand Argos and Homebases store networks by: Home Retail Group seeks to take opening approximately 30 Argos stores advantage of four factors to drive per year sustainable growth.
Leverage extensive product stores per year, with a further small portfolio, market leadership and number of existing Homebase stores purchasing scale by: also supporting a mezzanine level building upon market leading positions by enhancing and developing both the The Groups store base is approaching product range and the offering in 1,000 stores and we continue to see core areas the opportunity over time for Argos to exceed 800 stores and Homebase to using shared scale and expertise in exceed 450 stores.
We also continue sourcing and logistics as well as joint to develop formats and store product ranges to provide value for presentations in both businesses, and money and wide choice run property as a central function for Our businesses have continued to carry leverage and space management out extensive range reviews, introducing opportunities.
thousands of new products over the last 4.
Extend and exploit multi-channel year.
The level of direct importing has leadership by: grown to over 28% of Group sales.
driving incremental sales growth over Nearly half of this is now being sourced and above that which is achieved directly from the manufacturer by the through new store openings Groups overseas buying offices.
This represents more than 5,000 products continuing with a customer focused, across Argos and Homebase.
fully integrated approach to ensure 2.
Increase market share in targeted that whether customers shop with large product markets by: Argos in store, online or over the phone they are able to find, order and capitalising upon the strength of the receive goods seamlessly across the Argos and Homebase brands to different channels identify opportunities in product markets particularly large, fragmented leveraging skills, scale and markets infrastructure to support the Homebase proposition utilising the inherent flexibility of the The leadership of Argos in terms of fully Argos and Homebase formats integrated multi-channel convenience is using shared infrastructure efficiently such that over one-third of its sales are to make these products available to ordered and delivered across more than customers quickly and easily one channel.
Skills and ecommerce Argos and Homebase have this year both infrastructure at Argos have led to the expanded their trials of furniture and re-launch of the Homebase website which housewares catalogues in order to extend is growing sales strongly and profitably.
the Groups leading position in these Both businesses also benefit from our fragmented markets.
The growth in sales in-house financial services business which of furniture and other large products will provides appropriate credit offers to drive see the Group start work in the current product sales and is fully enabled across financial year on its fourth two-man all customer channels.
Homebases utilisation of the shared supply chain and home delivery infrastructure has brought it the scale and cost advantage of the UKs largest home delivery operation of large, bulky products.
13 Sourcing, supply chain and distribution infrastructure are critical to the efficiency of a world class retailer.
We have more than 4,000 employees in these functions, including around 150 in overseas buying offices.
More than 30% of Argos sales are directly imported from overseas, and over 20% for Homebase.
We receive over 45,000 containers a year, and have over five million square feet of distribution space that receive all goods, before transportation to around 1,000 stores.
1 toy retailer in the UK for the last 13 years HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Strategy & Progress 14 Business Review Strategy & Progress in 2007 continued Factors affecting performance The Board believe that market conditions in the UK are likely to remain challenging The principal factor that affects during the 2007 calendar year and performance is UK consumer spending.
possibly beyond, particularly for Over the long-term, growth of the general discretionary, high value or housingmerchandise and home enhancement related product categories.
It is market is expected to continue to be anticipated that the future underlying driven by factors including: volume and value growth rates for most increasing number of households: product markets, although positive, will be below the levels seen in the last five rising overall household years.
However, within this there will disposable income: continue to be areas of relatively higher technology change and development: growth, either due to new product innovation or consumers need to renew falling prices of necessary items such or replace existing products.
The Board as food and clothing leaving believe that Home Retail Group is well consumers with more discretionary positioned to take advantage of these spend for home and leisure-related higher growth markets.
Additionally, the products: and Group also has leading positions in many expanding sources of low cost supply fragmented markets where the Board which will stimulate further expect that both Argos and Homebase consumer expenditure across can continue to increase market share.
With its strong brands, wide choice across The UK retail market is, however, a broad range of products markets, multiundergoing significant change.
This channel offering, strong retail credit change is in part driven by the recent propositions and ability to open new slowdown in consumer spending, but is stores, the Board believe that Home Retail underpinned by an overall structural shift Group is well positioned to trade through in favour of large scale retailers such as any continued cyclical retail downturn Home Retail Group.
This has led to an and to successfully benefit from renewed increasingly competitive market where consumer confidence through the cycle.
scale, value and cost management are The support provided to the business by believed to be the key determinants of its purchasing scale, global sourcing success.
Retailers that cannot offer a capability, supply chain infrastructure, and differentiated service or shopping the shared service platform further experience and are unable to compete underpins the competitive position of the with the large scale retailers on price are Group within the UK retail market.
likely to continue to underperform, with some being forced to exit the market as has been seen over recent years.
The Board believe that there are opportunities for the Group to benefit from the weakness of other retailers, by continuing to take market share as a result of structural changes in the retail market.
15 Business Review Principal Risks & Uncertainties There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could impact the performance of the Group.
The Group operates a structured risk management process which identifies, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties and reviews mitigation activity.
Further information on the risk management process can be found on page 45 of the Corporate Governance Statement, reference to risk is also made throughout the Business Review.
The principal risks and uncertainties are set out below: Area of potential risk uncertainty Outline Examples of mitigating activity Sales growth Delivering sales growth impacted by: Choice and value-led product offering Economic conditions Driving market share growth in high Consumer preferences headroom product categories Competitor activity Multi-channel development Seasonality Store service standards Expansion and development of Development of delivery proposition store networks Property pipeline Mezzanine investment and format enhancement Profit growth Increase in product and operating Purchasing, sourcing and supply-chain costs including: scale leveraging Cost of raw materials Forward fixed contractual supply General level of inflation agreements Property energy labour costs Cost productivity initiatives Product supply Delay or interruptions in the supply of Product substitution planning products from third-party suppliers including Management of supplier relationships products sourced overseas.
Improvements in planning process Business interruption Failure or unavailability of operational Business continuity planning and IT infrastructure.
IT recovery plans Delay or interruptions in the services Key third-party supplier management provided by third-party suppliers.
Infrastructure development projects Delay or failure to manage and implement Project management major business and infrastructure Board review of status progress projects effectively.
Post project implementation reviews People Reliance on key personnel.
Succession planning Competitive remuneration packages Management development and training programmes Regulatory environment Changes in UK and European legislation Engagement with government and and regulation e. g. consumer protection, regulators directly and through environmental regulation.
industry representative groups Changes in UK fiscal employment policy e. g. minimum wage.
Currency Purchase of products in currencies other than Forecasting currency requirements sterling, principally the US dollar and the euro.
Hedging policy HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Principal Risks & Uncertainties 16 Business Review Argos Business Reviews Widest ever customer choice.
The current Argos catalogue offers over To assist with analysis and comparison, 17,000 lines across all stores and the following business reviews are based channels.
Since national roll-out of the upon pro forma information.
The basis of additional Argos Extra ranges, awareness preparation of pro forma restatements is of the wider offering has continued to set out on page 26. build.
At the end of the financial period, Argos - operational review there were 238 stores that stocked-in the additional 3,000 lines: this is an increase As the UKs leading general of nearly 50 stores compared to the same 20000 merchandise retailer, Argos provides a 17,200 17,200 time last year and is driven by a roughly highly successful and unique offer of 15000 15000 equal mix of new stores and existing store 13,300 13,000 choice, value and convenience.
All the remaining stores offer 10000 10000 Further market share gains achieved.
customers the option to either order-in With sales growing 8% to 4.2 billion, for later collection from store or to have 5000 5000 Argos continued to extend its share of the goods delivered to home.
overall home and general merchandise 03 04 05 06 07 0 Argos Home catalogue trial extended.
Argos was named as the UKs The latest edition of this separate biggest furniture retailer by Verdict Number of lines in the main catalogue catalogue was in 228 stores by the end of Spring Summer Research.
Once again, Argos was the the period.
It features 348 pages and Argos customers have the choice of over number one toy retailer in the UK for 3,200 products, with over 100 new lines 17,000 lines via its catalogue 2006, and increased its lead over the now exclusive to this catalogue.
Research second player according to NPD Group.
has shown that the Home catalogue is Share gains also continued within other 35 helping Argos further define itself as the 25 25 categories, including the broad electrical 32 clear market leader, raise awareness and 30 goods category.
The 24 More catalogue prices lowered.
The catalogue is supported in store with a 15 15 price reduction on reincluded lines in the comprehensive marketing package and a 10 10 Spring Summer 2007 catalogue is virtual brochure on the Internet.
Argos has lowered 5 Multi-channel leadership further prices on reincluded lines in every 03 04 05 06 07 strengthened.
Internet orders grew 45% 0 catalogue since 1999 to constantly to represent over 16% of total Argos reinforce its value proposition % of sales across more than sales: online reservations for later for customers.
one channel collection in store now represent over half The multi-channel convenience of Prices lowered further during life of of this, and grew 60% in the year.
A Argos has become even more catalogue.
Argos employs a dynamic further 8% of total sales are via popular in the last year pricing approach, continuing to lower telephone or text.
In addition, of the 22% 20 around 20% of prices during the sixof total sales that are delivered to home, 16 month life of the catalogue.
Since the 15 15 around half of these are still ordered in 12 launch of the current catalogue in store.
Together, this means that over one- 9 10 10 January, over 3,000 prices have been third of all Argos sales are ordered or lowered.
Prices are either lowered 6 received by customers using more than 45 permanently or through a series of one channel.
promotions throughout the year with 03 04 05 06 07 In the recent Hitwise UK Online 0 between 500 and 1,000 prices typically Performance Awards, www.
In addition to television, % of sales ordered via Internet was the second most visited site within newspaper and online promotional Argos was again the most visited high street retail the Shopping & Classifieds category, messaging, every month up to 10 million website during the year behind only Amazon and therefore ahead flyers or brochures are delivered to homes of all other UK retailers.
Argos was also to further communicate price reductions.
05 onwards under IFRS the third most searched for brand during 06 and 07 are on a 52-week pro forma basis A unique facility also allows customers to 2006, behind only eBay and Bebo.
use text messaging to check both the latest price as well as the stock level in an individual store, and then to reserve goods for immediate or later collection.
17 Argos multi-channel offering is a major point of differentiation.
Developed over many years and supported by a high level of capital and resource investment, multi-channel at Argos means an experience that is fully integrated and considered highly efficient by customers.
With the ability to see the stock levels of all goods in every single store, customers can use the Internet, telephone or store itself to reserve products for collection.
Similarly, through all channels, customers also have the opportunity to order any product for delivery to home.
Argos is the UKs leading supplier of artificial Christmas trees, while Homebase is the leading supplier of real trees HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Argos 18 Business Review Argos continued Home delivery convenience enhanced.
New stores extending customer reach.
Argos Direct is the largest two-man There were 30 store openings and 5 store delivery infrastructure in the UK, with closures during the year, bringing the total around five million products delivered in at the end of the year to 680 stores.
Using a fleet of around 800 the 30 store openings, 3 were relocations vehicles, it now makes deliveries in three and 10 were in new catchments, with the slots across the day morning, midday remainder being additional stores in an and afternoon.
This leading level of existing catchment.
The openings service also includes drivers calling ahead included 26 Argos Extra stocked-in stores.
5000 to customers to confirm delivery.
Argos Kiosks further improving customer 4,164 3,859 delivery of smaller products through the 4000 4000 3,652 convenience and efficiency.
Average 3,384 third-party provider Home Delivery 3,017 sales participation in stores with kiosks is 3 3000 000 Network is also now operated on morning now approximately 12%, with some or afternoon delivery slots.
2 2000 000 stores reaching as high as 40%.
There are Argos Direct is completing its roll out of a now over 1,000 kiosks across just over 1 1000 000 new warehouse management solution.
half of the store portfolio.
03 04 05 06 07 0 Originally implemented at the purposeIn-store operational improvements.
built Faverdale distribution centre near Argos sales m The vast majority of stores carry the full Darlington that was opened in 2005, the Argos has added over 1 billion to annual 10,000 products that represent the core system has now been implemented in sales in the last four years stocked-in range.
Goods that are Marsh Leys, with a final roll out to Acton collected in store account for 78% of Gate beginning shortly.
The system is total sales.
Ongoing improvements in the bringing benefits in terms of enhanced unique systems, processes and layouts of 15 15 operational efficiency, improved order stockrooms have further enhanced 13 accuracy levels and reduced clerical work.
12 6 customer choice, service and convenience.
12 7 Infrastructure changes for network 9 8 7.9 6.1 optimisation.
In the financial year just 5 5.5 7.5 7 begun, Argos will implement changes to 6 its infrastructure that will lead to greater 5 3 network optimisation and less complexity.
3 2.4 The direct importing element of the Argos 03 04 05 06 07 0 1.4 Direct home delivery operation will be Argos sales trend % change moved from Corby to the purpose-built Like-for-like direct importing facility opened last year New space at Kettering.
This will enable a rented Argos produced good like-for-like growth central distribution facility at as well as a further sales contribution Wolverhampton to be closed, as its from new stores operations will be relocated to the capacity released at Corby.
10 10 8.8% 8.8% 8.0% 7.8% 7.7% 8 6 350 350 325 320 297 297 300 300 241 250 250 200 200 150 150 100 100 50 03 04 05 06 07 0 Benchmark operating profit m and margin % -continuing operations There was growth in profit and a small increase in the operating margin in the year 05 onwards under IFRS 06 and 07 are on a 52-week pro forma basis 19 Argos - financial review Benchmark operating profit for the 52 weeks to 3 March 2007 grew 9% to Sales in the 52 weeks to 3 March 2007 325m.
Growth excluding 11m of oneincreased by 7.9% in total: like-for-like off charges incurred in the first half of the sales grew 2.4%.
There was exceptional previous year was 6%.
Underlying growth in TVs and video games systems operating cost inflation continued to be throughout the year, driven by new digital approximately 4%.
A further 4% growth technology and gaming platforms, in operating costs excluding the 11m of together with a further boost in relation one-off charges reflects the direct costs to the World Cup in the first half of the of higher sales, new space including the year.
This offset some continued market incremental operating costs of the weakness in the audio, DVD VCR and acquired Index stores and additional compact digital camera categories.
Other supply chain infrastructure, partially offset areas that had good growth during the by robust cost control.
year included white goods, bedroom furniture, in-car child safety and other nursery-related lines.
The contribution to sales growth from net new space was 5.5%, boosted in the first half of the year by the 33 Index stores acquired in 2005.
This factor, together with the larger total sales base, leads to a lower expected contribution to sales growth of between 3% and 4% going forward from continuing to open around 30 new stores a year.
The stronger sales performance in the first half was substantially offset by a related reduction in gross margin of approximately 100 basis points, driven by the shift in the product mix and the popularity of Argos promotional offers.
In the second half of the year, gross margin was ahead by around 50 basis points as a result of ongoing supply chain initiatives, a less promotional stance during the key seasonal period and improved management of stock clearance activity.
The resulting gross margin for the full year was therefore in line with the prior year.
Argos Pro forma 52 weeks to 3 March 2007 4 March 2006 Sales m 4,164.0 3,858.8 Benchmark operating profit m 325.0 297.0 Benchmark operating margin 7.8% 7.7% Like-for-like change in sales 2.4% 1.4% New space contribution to sales change 5.5% 7.5% Total sales change 7.9% 6.1% Benchmark operating profit change 9% n a Number of stores at period end 680 655 Of which Argos Extra stocked-in 238 189 HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Argos 20 Business Review Homebase Homebase - operational review Latest format roll out trials progressing to plan.
Trials are in place to evaluate Homebase is positioning itself as the rolling out the proven home enhancement UKs leading home enhancement offering throughout the Homebase chain.
150 The opportunity remains to provide a 120 121 Successful trading strategy.
Following a comprehensive and compelling set of 120 120 112 109 step-up in promotional activity in the merchandise ranges in a more consistent 90 90 prior year, Homebase successfully manner throughout the store portfolio.
reverted to its previous levels of Around one-third of the portfolio has 60 60 promotions.
This, together with improved received minimal or no store 30 30 stock management and the continued refurbishment investment for a number of 04 05 06 07 benefit from supply chain initiatives, years.
As a result, only around half of the 0 resulted in gross margins being strongly store portfolio carries a comprehensive Homebase sales per square foot ahead in the year.
Good execution of this display of the Homebase kitchen range Sales per square foot which includes mezzanine and trading strategy and margin management and a similar number of stores have a garden centre space declined, driven by a further was a key operational highlight given a significant Furniture Extra display in place.
difficult year in the DIY market further year of challenging market Initial trials began in late 2006 to review conditions.
how best to reconfigure space for 350 New space improving reach and additional ranges and improve customer 250 250 310 297 300 300 287 278 product offering.
Homebase opened 17 perception in these stores.
These trials 145 153 176 200 200 211 new stores and closed 4 including two will be fully evaluated after Homebases 150 150 store relocations, bringing the total key selling months in the first half of the 100 100 number of stores to 310.
The majority of current financial year.
165 the new stores were of a smaller store 144 50 format and in new catchments.
As a 111 0 67 result of the opening programme since 04 05 06 07 acquisition, Homebase now has 10% of its portfolio in a smaller store format Homebase number of stores around 20,000 sq feet internal ground Non-mezzanine floor sales area, typically with an 8,000 With mezzanine square foot mezzanine and an 8,000 Mezzanine floors are now in over half square foot garden centre.
These smaller of all Homebase stores stores are able to offer an authoritative range across the broader home 2000 2000 enhancement categories, and are often the 1,594 1,580 1,559 only national retailer in smaller catchments 1,483 1500 1500 such as market towns for categories including core DIY, garden and showroom.
1000 1000 Mezzanine floors in over half the store 500 500 portfolio.
There are 165 mezzanines, with 7 of the 21 increase in the year 04 05 06 07 0 0 coming from existing store conversions and the balance from new store openings.
Homebase sales m The latest mezzanine floors continue to Sales growth was driven by successfully adding new stores reinforce the Homebase brand as a destination for kitchens, bathrooms and furniture which are typically displayed on 05 onwards under IFRS 06 and 07 are on a 52-week pro forma basis the mezzanine, while creating an improved environment for retailing homewares, furnishings and accessories on the ground floor space beneath.
Most new stores will continue to be opened with a mezzanine, with a limited number of existing stores remaining to be converted.
21 Homebase is the UKs second largest DIY retailer and is recognised for choice, style and customer service across the wider home enhancement market.
This wider market encompasses DIY, housewares, furniture, fitted kitchens and bathrooms, and the horticulture, garden furniture and outdoor living product markets.
Mezzanine levels have allowed Homebase to introduce and display more effectively many of these product ranges, and together with the scale and supporting infrastructure of the Group, Homebase is successfully positioning itself to be the leading destination for the home and garden enhancer.
Kitchen installation trial progressing well HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Homebase 22 Business Review Homebase continued Differentiation through broader home Kitchen installation trial progressing enhancement offer.
Approximately one-third of the enhanced and extended home furnishing store base now offers a full kitchen offer continues to successfully installation service to customers, helping differentiate it from the competition.
The to capture additional orders from those 8 big book of furnishings trial, which has customers seeking installation and also 7 6 been extended to 100 stores, now has supporting the sale of higher priced 6 5 3 1,700 of the Furniture Extra products and ranges and accessories.
Opportunity 5 2 a further 1,300 other home enhancement remains to roll out further to more 2.2 4 0.0 products across a total 276 pages.
As well stores and potentially to other 3.6 3 3.1 3 3 as products that are cutting edge and new product categories.
2 stylish designs, there are also Smart Buy Leveraging multi-channel skills, scale 1 design-led lines offering value for money 04 05 06 07 and infrastructure.
Furniture has been a 00 and WOW deals that offer great value at strong sales category during the year, 1.4 low prices.
The initiative is a further enabled by the shared supply chain and example of leveraging the existing Group home delivery infrastructure.
Visits to 3.1 sourcing and supply chain skills.. homebase.
co. uk have also risen www Homebase sales trend % change strongly: the website is now the third The Homebase Ideas magazine reinforces Like-for-like most popular in the house and garden its style-led home enhancement ranges.
New space category according to the Hitwise 2006 With a circulation of over 400,000, it is UK Annual Online Performance Awards.
one of the UKs top consumer magazines Homebases like-for-like performance reflected Further products are being added in order and it extended its leadership of the the weak DIY market, offset by good growth to better reflect the in-store ranges and home interests category in the latest in other categories.
allow customers to research individual ABC circulation figures.
Recent additions New product ranges.
A further 50 range also include virtual bathroom and reviews have been completed in the last kitchen brochures.
These have included homewares and 7.2% 6.9% 8 7 furnishings, horticulture and core DIY and 6 5 3.3% 3.4% 4 decorating categories.
One of the most 3 2 1 114 0 recent launches has been a new own 120 120 102 brand paint range Flawless which has 100 100 been specially formulated for ease of 80 application, coverage, durability and consistent finish.
The range will help 60 53 51 Homebase gain additional market share in 40 a core category that represents an 800m market.
It will give further authority 20 04 05 06 07 alongside the leading Dulux and Crown 0 brands, together with specialist paint Benchmark operating profit m and ranges from Farrow & Ball, Fired Earth and margin % Laura Ashley, as well as a broad offer of There was growth in profit and a small increase in other Homebase own-brands.
the operating margin in the year 05 onwards under IFRS 06 and 07 are on a 52-week pro forma basis 23 Further operational improvements.
Homebase - financial review Rationalising the many ways that Sales in the 52 weeks to 3 March 2007 different stores approach a process into increased by 2.2% in total: like-for-like the single most efficient way began with sales declined 1.4%.
Sales of furniture the Homebase Way programme launched and kitchens were strong over the year, in 2003 and has continued in the latest while core DIY and decorating ranges 300 to 1 store operations consistency were weak particularly in the first half.
As part of this, store There were good performances in management teams were restructured seasonal categories at relevant selling during the year to reflect a clear focus on times during the year, including air delivering sales through better customer conditioning, horticulture and service, the wider product range that garden maintenance.
Homebase now sells and improved The contribution to sales growth from net systems and processes.
In the new financial Operational improvements leading to year, while Homebase still expects to positive employee feedback.
In the open a similar number of new stores, the 2007 all-employee opinion survey, 60 out contribution to sales growth is expected of 64 measures improved on the year to be between 2% and 3% as a result of before.
The level of overall employee the planned size and phasing of engagement has risen from less than 20% store openings.
in the first survey in 2003 to over 59% in the latest survey: this is a score double Gross margin was ahead by approximately that of a UK benchmark of other 200 basis points in the first half of the year as a result of a reduced level of comparable organisations.
promotional activity together with the benefits from supply chain initiatives.
This continued in the second half, together with improved stock management.
As a result, gross margin for the full year was ahead by approximately 300 basis points.
Benchmark operating profit for the 52 weeks to 3 March 2007 grew 4% to 53.4m.
In total, operating costs grew 9% in the year.
Underlying cost inflation continued to be approximately 4%, with the remaining 5% being driven by additional investment in new space, together with the costs of strategic and operational initiatives.
Homebase Pro forma 52 weeks to 3 March 2007 4 March 2006 Sales m 1,594.2 1,559.0 Benchmark operating profit m 53.4 51.4 Benchmark operating margin 3.4% 3.3% Like-for-like change in sales 1.4% 3.1% New space contribution to sales change 3.6% 3.1% Total sales change 2.2% 0.0% Benchmark operating profit change 4% n a Number of stores at period end 310 297 Of which contain a mezzanine floor 165 144 HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Homebase 24 Business Review Financial Services 500 500 448 Financial Services - operational review Financial Services - financial review 378 400 400 Financial Services works in conjunction Store card gross receivables grew by 349 with Argos and Homebase to provide their 70m versus the previous balance sheet 300 300 252 customers with the most appropriate date, driven by the continued success of credit offers to drive product sales, and to the range of promotional credit products 200 200 155 ensure the maximum possible profit from offered.
The store cards funded 8% of 100 100 the transaction for Home Retail Group.
The continued planned run-off in personal loans saw a 31m 03 04 05 06 07 Credit offers support initiatives in the 00 reduction in gross receivables over retail businesses.
For example, the trial the period.
Gross store card receivables m of the Home catalogue in Argos and Growth in gross store card receivables growing kitchen sales in Homebase Growth in benchmark operating profit continued in the year driven by benefit from in-house financial services.
before financing costs was held back by promotional credit While approximately 50% of existing reduced income of about 2m relating to gross receivable balances as at 3 March the lowering of customer late payment 2007 are promotional credit offer-based, fees from December 2006.
A further 1,068 1,044 approximately 70% of credit sales have 1200 1200 impact from late payment fees of around 887 100 been driven by promotional credit offers 84 5m is expected in the current year.
Financial Services 634 960 968 28 800 800 financial objective is to achieve a return 825 0 737 on the revolving i. e. non-promotional 600 600 634 element of receivables in line with 400 400 financial services industry norms and to recover costs on the provision of 200 200 03 04 05 06 07 promotional credit products to Argos and 0 Homebase customers.
The retail Number of active store businesses are therefore receiving a card holders 000 competitive advantage in the form of the Argos provision of promotional credit products Homebase at cost.
Success of promotional credit The Financial Services offering is fully products are a key driver in the increase in active store card holders multi-channel.
Customers can apply for credit and use the account during the same online visit.
The Internet is the fastest growing channel for card 15 applications and 1 of every 6 spent on 0 9% 9% 9% 9% 9 8% the Argos website is spent using the Argos 8 12 7 store card.
6 5% 9 5 4% Development of the Financial Services 4 3% 3% product portfolio continues.
An Argos 3 6 2 credit card was launched in May 2007 as 1 03 04 05 06 07 0 3 part of the joint venture arrangement % sales funded by store cards with Barclays Bank PLC.
This will offer a 03 04 05 06 07 0 Argos unique three-month interest-free credit Homebase period on all purchases and access to a Credit offers have supported initiatives new exclusive loyalty scheme.
in both retail businesses 05 onwards under IFRS 06 and 07 are on a 52-week pro forma basis Financial Services Pro forma 52 weeks to 3 March 2007 4 March 2006 Sales m 93.2 92.5 Benchmark operating profit before financing costs 22.8 23.9 Financing costs 17.8 17.8 Benchmark operating profit m 5.0 6.1 3 March 2007 31 March 2006 Store card gross receivables 448 378 Personal loans gross receivables 24 55 2321 25 Argos and Homebase are supported by an in-house financial services business, which provides a range of credit and insurance products to their customers through all customer-facing channels of stores, online and over the phone.
We are one of the largest store card providers in the UK, having over one million active store card customers.
Making product easier to afford is an intrinsic element of the retail offer, and is particularly important for purchases of high value items such as furniture, consumer electronics, kitchens and bathrooms, for which we offer a range of promotional credit deals.
70% of all credit sales have been driven by promotional credit offers during the year HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Financial Services 26 Business Review Central Activities New Development Financial Summary Central Activities Outlook Central Activities The Group has performed strongly for the Central Activities represents the cost of Pro forma 52 weeks to 3 March 2007 4 March 2006 financial year just completed.
As part of we remain cautious on a retail GUS, Home Retail Group was not Central Activities m 24.0 22.7 environment that is still expected to be recharged for these types of costs.
In addition, comparatives for However, for the purposes of preparing Central Activities represents the cost of the retail market as a whole, and demerger financial information, an central corporate functions and, going particularly Argos, become tougher as we approximation was made of the amount forward, the investment costs of new start to face last years positive impacts of GUS corporate head office costs to development opportunities.
Cost growth of the World Cup as well as certain other apportion to Home Retail Group.
These in the year was slightly ahead of previous product categories that boosted the first apportioned costs were not representative expectations as a result of recording 1m and particularly second financial quarters of either the historical costs Home Retail loss on the disposal of Whiteaway last year.
Group would have incurred or the costs it Laidlaw Bank.
Home Retail Group continues to position Central Activities are expected to include its businesses accordingly, and has As part of the pro forma restatements, an additional 5m of costs in each of the entered the new financial year from a Home Retail Group has therefore next two years in relation to the position of operational strength.
approximated the additional costs of investment in new development central corporate functions it would have opportunities.
incurred over and above that apportioned New development opportunities to it by GUS.
This has been done on the Financial summary - basis it had operated as a standalone plc In February 2007, Home Retail Group pro forma reporting through the periods being restated.
signed heads of terms to develop the The change in both the year-end and Argos retail format in India through a Capital structure and net interest the Groups capital structure on franchise arrangement with a joint As part of the demerger, Home Retail demerger result in statutory reported venture company owned by leading Group was allocated pro forma net debt results that are non-comparable.
Indian retailers Shoppers Stop Ltd and as at 31 March 2006 of 200m.
For the Hypercity Retail India Private Ltd.
Under Reporting periods purposes of preparing pro forma results, the terms of the arrangement, Argos will Home Retail Group previously reported as net interest income has been calculated be providing its brand, catalogue and part of GUS plc on a calendar year-end to to illustrate the impact on the Groups multi-channel expertise and IT support.
Within this, to avoid distortion financial performance as if this capital The business will be launched towards the in the financial results relating to the structure had existed at 31 March 2006 end of the year under the HyperCITYtiming of Easter, Homebase was and had been achieved based on the Argos brand name, initially in the consolidated on a non-coterminous underlying cash flows prior to 31 March Mumbai region.
At this stage, it is 12 months to 28 February basis.
The additional net interest costs envisaged that the proposition will be Interim Results, Homebase was therefore attributable to the actual GUS capital based largely on the existing Argos multiconsolidated on a seven months to structure that was in place over the channel proposition.
30 September basis, with the second half periods are shown separately.
of its financial year comprising only a five On 25 April 2007, Home Retail Group Other income statement items month period.
completed the acquisition of a 33% stake Other non-trading income statement in home store more, the Irish retailer.
As a result of the change in year-end, items have not been restated as they home store more is an out-of-town Home Retail Group is this year reporting are not impacted by the change of homewares format, currently with two on a statutory basis the financial period year-end.
These are principally stores in the Dublin area.
This includes the exceptional items and costs related to of around 7m 10m will be used to results for Homebase from 1 March 2006 demerger incentive schemes.
fund an agreed plan to expand the outapproximately 12 months and the of-town homewares chain in Ireland.
It results for the rest of the Group from expects to open approximately three 1 April 2006 approximately 11 months.
stores a year over the next few years.
For comparative purposes, 2006 07 Separate from this investment, the restated on a pro forma basis is the management team of home store 52-week period commencing more will also support Home Retail 5 March 2006 and ending on Group in its own development of a 3 March 2007, and 2005 06 on a homewares format in the UK.
Home pro forma basis is the 52-week period Retail Group expects the initial pilot commencing 6 March 2005 and phase to include up to three UK stores in ending on 4 March 2006. the next 12 months.
27 Financial Summary 52-week pro forma to Statutory reported to 3 March 2007 4 March 2006 3 March 2007 31 March 2006 short period 12 months m Argos 4,164.0 3,858.8 3,912.8 3,892.6 Homebase 1,594.2 1,559.0 1,606.3 1,561.8 Financial Services 93.2 92.5 87.6 93.6 Sales 5,851.4 5,510.3 5,606.7 5,548.0 Cost of sales 3,852.2 3,654.6 3,680.5 3,686.5 Gross profit 1,999.2 1,855.7 1,926.2 1,861.5 Operating expenses before exceptional items and costs related to demerger incentive schemes 1,639.8 1,523.9 1,592.5 1,515.5 Argos 325.0 297.0 300.9 296.0 Homebase 53.4 51.4 51.2 51.8 Financial Services 5.0 6.1 4.5 6.1 Central Activities 24.0 22.7 22.9 16.2 Adjustment on merger accounting - - - 8.3 Benchmark operating profit 359.4 331.8 333.7 346.0 Pro forma net interest income see below 16.6 9.5 n a n a Share of post-tax results of associates 0.7 4.2 0.7 4.2 Benchmark PBT 376.7 337.1 n a n a Net interest costs attributable to GUS capital structure see below 39.2 40.9 21.0 45.3 Exceptional items included in operating profit 22.7 24.7 22.7 24.7 Costs related to demerger incentive schemes 5.8 - 5.8 - Financing fair value remeasurements 0.1 2.4 0.1 2.0 Financing impact on retirement benefit balances 12.3 2.6 12.1 2.6 Profit before tax 321.2 271.7 296.9 272.4 Taxation 117.5 94.9 109.5 96.0 of which: taxation attributable to pro forma benchmark PBT 122.1 114.5 n a n a Profit for the period 203.7 176.8 187.4 176.4 Basic benchmark EPS 29.3p 25.6p n a n a Basic EPS n a n a 21.6p 20.3p Number of shares for basic EPS 869.6m 869.0m 869.6m 869.0m Net interest reconciliation: Pro forma net interest expense 1.2 8.3 n a n a Financing costs charged to Financial Services 17.8 17.8 n a n a Pro forma net interest income 16.6 9.5 n a n a Interest costs attributable to GUS capital structure 46.1 40.9 44.3 49.2 Exceptional finance income 6.9 - 6.9 - Adjustment on merger accounting - - - 14.0 Financing costs charged to Financial Services - - 16.4 17.9 Net interest costs attributable to GUS capital structure 39.2 40.9 21.0 45.3 Financing fair value remeasurements 0.1 2.4 0.1 2.0 Financing impact on retirement benefit balances 12.3 2.6 12.1 2.6 Income statement net financing costs 10.4 31.2 9.0 44.7 Financial information has been prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation as set out in Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
The basis of preparation for pro forma restatements is set out on page 26.
HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Central Activities New Development Financial Summary 28 Business Review Financial Review Sales and operating profit Exceptional items Pro forma sales for the Group grew 6% to Demerger-related costs of 11.3m were 5,851m 2006: 5,510m and pro forma incurred by Home Retail Group.
As benchmark operating profit grew 8% to previously disclosed, these included costs 359.4m 2006: 331.8m.
Group pro in relation to early vesting of GUS plc forma benchmark operating margin was share incentive schemes, banking set-up 6.1% 2006: 6.0%.
The drivers of this fees and other professional fees.
An performance have been analysed as part additional exceptional cost on demerger of the preceding divisional reviews.
of 7.3m in relation to the waiver of a loan due from Experian was also taken in The definition of pro forma benchmark the first half of the financial year.
Store operating profit is operating profit before impairment charges in respect of the amortisation of acquisition intangibles, Homebase store portfolio were 4.1m store impairment charges, exceptional 2006: 12.8m.
items and costs related to demerger incentive schemes.
As with pro forma Within net financing costs, exceptional sales, it is calculated on a 52-week basis.
finance income of 6.9m was recorded in This represents the 52 weeks to 3 March the second half of the financial year.
This 2007 and the comparable 52 weeks to relates to the gain made on the transfer 4 March 2006. of an interest rate swap associated with the 225m fixed rate financing facility Net interest costs novated from GUS plc on demerger.
Pro forma net interest income for the Financing fair value remeasurements year was 16.6m.
This reflects 1.2m of estimated net interest expense on Home Changes in the fair value of certain Retail Groups net debt cash position financial instruments are recognised in during the course of the year on the basis the income statement within net financing of a pro forma allocation of 200m net costs.
These amounted to charges of 0.1m debt as at 31 March 2006, improving to a 2006: 2.4m.
net cash position of 60m as at 3 March Financing impact on retirement 2007.
Against this is the credit of 17.8m benefit balances reflecting the financing costs charged The credit through net financing costs in within Financial Services benchmark respect of the excess of expected return operating profit.
on retirement benefit assets over the Interest costs attributable to the GUS interest expense on retirement benefit capital structure prior to the demerger liabilities amounted to 12.3m 2006: were 46.1m 2006: 40.9m and have 2.6m.
The increase in the credit is been excluded from pro forma principally as a result of the special benchmark PBT.
contribution of 100m made in Share of post-tax results of associates March 2006.
These amounted to income of 0.7m The ongoing accounting charge, which 2006: loss of 4.2m.
The improvement Home Retail Group believes to be a fairer is principally due to the costs incurred in reflection of the cost of providing the previous year associated with the retirement benefits, is already reflected in wind-down of AAGUS, a consumer benchmark operating profit.
finance company in The Netherlands in which Home Retail Group has a 33% holding.
29 Profit before tax Number of shares and earnings Balance sheet and return on capital per share Pro forma benchmark profit before tax for Reported net assets amounted to the year grew 12% to 376.7m 2006: On demerger, Home Retail Group was 3,078.7m, an increase of 128.8m on 337.1m.
Reported profit before tax was admitted to the Official List and to the previous balance sheet date.
trading on the London Stock Exchange's This is equivalent to 354p per share, market for listed securities with 877.4m excluding shares held in the ESOT 2006: The definition of pro forma benchmark issued ordinary shares.
profit before tax is profit before amortisation of acquisition intangibles, The number of shares for the purpose of Benchmark pre-tax return on invested store impairment charges, exceptional calculating earnings per share in the prior capital, based on benchmark operating items, costs related to demerger incentive year has been taken as 869.0m, profit plus share of post-tax results of schemes, financing fair value representing the number of shares in issue associates of 360.1m and invested remeasurements, financing impact on at the date of demerger, excluding 8.4m capital of 3,011.8m, was 12.0%, retirement benefit balances and taxation.
ordinary shares held in Home Retail representing a 150 basis point Net interest income within pro forma Groups Employee Share Ownership Trust improvement on the previous balance benchmark PBT is calculated to illustrate ESOT.
For the financial period just sheet date.
The improvement represents the Groups financial performance as if ended, the weighted average number of the combination of the 32.5m the demerger capital structure had existed shares since demerger has been used, improvement in profit, together with the at 31 March 2006 and had been achieved which, excluding shares held in the ESOT, 95.4m reduction in invested capital.
based on underlying cash flows prior to was 869.6m.
Benchmark PBT also The calculation of diluted EPS reflects the includes Home Retail Groups share of potential dilutive effect of employee post-tax results of associates.
It is share incentive schemes in place post calculated on a 52-week basis.
This increases the number of Taxation shares for diluted EPS purposes by 7.6m to 877.2m 2006: 876.6m.
Taxation attributable to pro forma benchmark PBT for the year was 122.1m Pro forma basic benchmark EPS is 29.3p 2006: 114.5m, representing an 2006: 25.6p, with pro forma diluted effective tax rate excluding associates of benchmark EPS of 29.0p 2006: 25.4p.
The improvement Reported basic EPS is 21.6p 2006: 20.3p, in the effective rate largely reflects a with reported diluted EPS of 21.4p lower level of disallowable expenditure for 2006: 20.1p.
The reported effective tax rate excluding associates is 37.0% 2006: 34.7%, representing a total tax expense for the period of 109.5m 2006: 96.0m.
Balance sheet As at 3 March 2007 31 March 2006 Goodwill 1,878.9 1,878.9 Intangible assets 73.4 61.5 Property, plant and equipment 691.6 696.8 Inventories 906.4 881.0 Instalment receivables 416.8 398.5 Other trading assets 188.3 169.6 4,155.4 4,086.3 Trade and other payables 1,059.1 890.5 Other trading liabilities 84.5 88.6 1,143.6 979.1 Invested capital 3,011.8 3,107.2 Retirement benefit assets 9.3 25.5 Net tax liabilities 2.6 4.8 Pro forma net cash debt 60.2 200.0 Pro forma net assets 3,078.7 2,927.9 Net GUS group balances - 22.0 Reported net assets 3,078.7 2,949.9 HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Financial Review 30 Business Review Financial Review continued Dividends Disposals As indicated at the time of demerger, a The disposal of Whiteaway Laidlaw, a policy whereby the full year dividend is commercial bank which offers banking ordinarily covered at least twice by basic facilities to small businesses and personal benchmark EPS has been established by customers, was completed in January the Board.
For the financial period to 2007.
Cash consideration was 3 March 2007, the Board are now approximately 5m, resulting in a loss on proposing to pay the final dividend based disposal of 1m which was charged on the higher figure of the 52-week pro within Central Activities.
forma basic benchmark EPS, rather than Retirement benefit assets on a lower statutory reporting period basis as had previously been indicated.
The Group provides a number of postemployment benefit arrangements A final dividend of 9.0p is therefore being covering both funded defined benefit and recommended, making 13.0p for the year.
Pension Based on pro forma benchmark EPS of arrangements are operated principally 29.3p, this represents cover of 2.25 times.
through the Argos UK defined benefit Based on reported basic EPS of 21.6p, it scheme together with the GUS defined represents cover of 1.66 times.
contribution scheme, which was replaced The final dividend, subject to approval by post year-end by the Home Retail Group shareholders at the AGM, will be paid on defined contribution scheme.
25 July 2007 to shareholders on the The last actuarial valuation of the Argos register at the close of business on UK defined benefit scheme was carried 25 May 2007. out as at 31 March 2006.
The IAS 19 Cash flow and net debt surplus as at 3 March 2007 for the UK defined benefit scheme was 9.3m As part of the demerger, Home Retail 2006: 25.5m.
Group was allocated pro forma net debt of 200m as at 31 March 2006.
Capital structure Cash flows from operating activities The Group finances its operations through before incurring outflows related to a combination of retained profits, bank interest, tax, investing and financing borrowings and property leases.
activities were 604.5m in the period The Group has significant liabilities 2006: 367.4m.
The principal drivers of through its obligations to pay rents under the strong cash generation have been property leases.
The capitalised value of good management of working capital, these liabilities is 2.6 billion based upon together with the non-repeat of the prior a simple eight-times multiple of the year 100m special pension contribution operating lease charge, or 2.9 billion to the Argos UK defined benefit pension based upon discounted cash flows of the scheme.
As the cash generation is for a expected future operating lease charges.
short period i. e. circa 11 months as a The Group, in common with the credit result of the change in year-end, there is rating agencies, treats its lease liabilities also a benefit within it from the exclusion as debt when evaluating financial risk and of March, historically a cash outflow investment returns.
It is estimated, based on previous cash flows for the month of March, that The Groups net debt varies cash generation would therefore have significantly throughout the year due been approximately 100m lower on a to trading seasonality.
There has also been a lower level of capital expenditure at 162.4m in the period 2006: 254.9m.
This is partly as a result of approximately 25m of capital expenditure that would ordinarily have occurred in the month of March, together with approximately 25m of capital expenditure delayed into the next financial year.
At 3 March 2007, the Group had a net cash position of 60.2m.
31 Liquidity and funding Post balance sheet event Liquidity is achieved through arranging On 25 April 2007, Home Retail Group funding ahead of requirements and completed the acquisition of a 33% stake maintaining sufficient un-drawn in home store more, the Irish retailer, committed facilities to meet short for a consideration of around term needs.
At 3 March 2007, the Group had Share price and total un-drawn committed borrowing facilities shareholder return available of 700m which expire in 2011.
The share price of Home Retail Group These facilities are in place to enable the ranged from a low of 399.25p to a high of Group to finance its working capital 444.5p during the financial year requirements and for general post demerger.
On 2 March 2007, the mid market price Treasury policy and risk management was 420.0p, giving a market capitalisation The Groups treasury function seeks to of 3.7bn at that date.
reduce exposures to foreign exchange, Total shareholder return the increase in interest rate and other financial risks, and the value of a share including reinvested to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to dividends has been 3.4% in the meet foreseeable needs and to invest approximate five-month period since cash assets safely and profitably.
This compares favourably with and procedures are subject to review and the total shareholder return for the FTSE approval by the Board as well as subject 100, which was 1.5% over the same period.
Accounting standards and use of Counterparty credit risk management non-GAAP measures The Groups exposure to credit risk is The Group has prepared its consolidated managed by dealing only with banks and financial statements under International financial institutions with strong credit Financial Reporting Standards for the ratings and within limits set for each period ended 3 March 2007.
Dealing activity is closely policies are outlined in Note 3 to the controlled and counterparty positions are Financial Statements.
Home Retail Group has identified certain Interest rate risk management measures that it believes provide The Groups interest rate exposure is additional useful information on the managed by the use of fixed and floating underlying performance of the Group.
rate borrowings and by the use of interest These measures are applied consistently rate swaps to adjust the balance of fixed but as they are not defined under GAAP and floating rate liabilities.
they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The Currency risk management non-GAAP measures are outlined in The Groups key objective is to reduce the Note 3 to the Financial Statements.
effect of exchange rate volatility on profits.
Transactional currency exposures that could significantly impact the Income Statement are hedged using forward purchases of foreign currencies.
HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Financial Review 32 All wood used in the Home Retail Group garden furniture range is either certified by the Forest Stewardship Council FSC or comes from suppliers who are members of the WWF Global Forestry and Trade Network GFTN Argos and Homebase support the FSC as Forests matter 1996 Forest Stewardship Council www.
org SA-COC-8888 33 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Growing and developing our business Customers depends on the continued support and Customers satisfaction with both the trust of five important groups of people: product and their shopping experience - is one of the strongest drivers of our Customers those who buy performance.
We have processes our products dedicated to understanding and Colleagues those who work in responding to our customers views and the Group treating our customers fairly, and have Investors those who own our shares developed a range of policies and and provide us with capital standards in response.
Commercial partners those who First and foremost, customers judge us on supply us with goods and services product range, shopping experience and our value proposition.
They also want Community those who live around assurances on product safety and quality.
our sites and wider society as a whole In addition, evidence suggests that We have responsibilities with regard to customers increasingly consider other each of these groups some set out in law, issues like ethics, integrity and but many arising from their expectations of responsibility in product sourcing and us.
For Home Retail Group, being a manufacture in their overall view of a responsible retailer means understanding retailer.
We aim to ensure these factors their expectations and living up to them, are positively associated with our brands.
often having to balance their competing We also need to ensure that we meet demands.
changing consumer demands, which are Our key responsibilities are: increasingly for efficient, eco-friendly products.
For example: serving customers to their complete satisfaction In response to the summer drought of 2006, we introduced our WaterWise providing a working environment that is campaign at Homebase.
This campaign conducive to the recruitment and provided useful information on water retention of the widest possible range restrictions and clearly labelled of talented staff products that made it easier for providing a safe and healthy place customers to adapt to the water of work shortage for example, drought tolerant plants and mulches.
providing products of the appropriate quality, including responsible product We have a comprehensive policy on sourcing and retailing, product safety sourcing wood products.
We aim to and reliability increase the amount we buy from independently certified well-managed encouraging responsible labour, forests and reduce the risk of illegal or environmental and social practices in undesirable materials anywhere within the Group's supply chain our supply chain.
improving the Group's environmental Further information on these and other performance, principally our use of initiatives and our policies relating to energy, the impact of our transport fleet, product issues can be found on our materials use and waste management website www.
developing strong community relationships in support of our business objectives Failure in any of these areas could damage our brands and business performance.
However, our approach to corporate responsibility also presents us with opportunities.
Our ability to identify changes in society and social trends means we can quickly adapt our business to take advantage of new markets as issues emerge, leading to commercial and social benefit.
HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Corporate Responsibility 34 Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Colleagues We offer all our salaried staff a competitive remuneration package The quality of any business depends together with a range of additional strongly on its people.
These include bonus successfully we need people who are well payments depending upon individual and trained, informed and motivated.
Schemes offering Providing the right working environment shares, share options and the acquisition helps us attract good people and motivate of shares are available for employees.
This and retain the valuable colleagues we encourages their contribution to the have.
There are also sound reasons to Groups performance.
We also offer train and develop our people: it makes colleagues a childcare scheme that them better at their job and enables us to provides working parents the chance to fill more of our vacancies through internal enjoy savings on their childcare costs.
promotion rather than recruiting externally.
Finally, we have ethical and Investors legal obligations to ensure that our Effective management of corporate colleagues work in safe conditions and to responsibility can increase shareholder contribute as far as possible to their value.
For example, in the area of ecohealth and wellbeing.
efficiency, rising prices for energy and We set out our standards through a waste disposal make efficiency savings number of policies, including: increasingly attractive.
Equal opportunities We have annual targets to reduce energy consumption, transport impacts, materials Disability use and waste volumes.
In addition, we Bullying and harassment have an overall aspiration towards zero landfill waste by 2010 which is supported Grievance by an extensive recycling programme in Health and safety our stores and distribution centres.
We have achieved a milestone in the period Training and development under review by reversing the trend of Whistleblowing increasing amounts of waste going to landfill as our recycling has increased Employee involvement from 26% to over 40%.
As an example, disabled persons have We have increased our use of renewable equal opportunities when applying for and low carbon energy.
This together with vacancies, with due regard to their lower energy consumption reduced our aptitudes and abilities.
We have CO2 emissions from building energy use procedures to ensure that disabled by over 20%.
employees are fairly treated and that their training and career development needs are carefully managed.
We aim to motivate and keep staff informed on matters that concern them at work and involve them through local consultative procedures.
Where there are recognition agreements with trade unions, the consultation process is established through national and local trade union representatives and through joint consultation committees.
Business information for example on financial and economic topics is also disseminated through management channels, conferences, meetings, publications and Internet sites.
35 We are committed to high standards of employment practice and wish to be recognised as a good employer.
We aim to provide a working environment that is conducive to the recruitment and retention of the widest possible range of talented staff.
We aim to reward people fairly, to provide equality of opportunity, personal development and training and a safe and healthy workplace.
We work with kidsunlimited to offer colleagues a childcare salary sacrifice scheme HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Corporate Responsibility 36 Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Over the past three years, we have audited 85% of our direct overseas suppliers.
Whilst the process of audit and re-audit is an effective way to find and deal with the worst abuses, such as the use of forced or child labour, we are increasingly concluding that our scope to influence the background culture is limited.
This is particularly relevant when dealing with issues such as working hours, wage rates and access to independent worker representation.
We are therefore seeking new approaches to the problem, based on closer relationships with our suppliers and engagement with non-governmental organisations and other interested parties.
We are now recycling more than 40% of our waste Commercial partners Community Labour standards and human rights within Our community and charity work offers the supply chain are one of the most significant opportunities.
At the most important responsibilities for a retailer.
basic level, healthy communities make for Home Retail Groups network of suppliers healthy businesses so we aim to play our and agents is extensive and includes a part in them.
There are also clear benefits number of regions where these issues from improvements to our public profile may present challenges.
But perhaps the strongest responsible for understanding our supply motivator is internal: taking part in chain and the conditions within it, for community activities is popular with our dealing with active or conspicuous abuses staff.
In a competitive environment for and for engaging with suppliers to recruitment and retention, this kind of communicate our customers concerns on positive experience can make an these matters and to support them as important difference to our performance.
We have invested over 800,000 in The Group has a set of Supply Chain community initiatives including Principles which are published on our 336,000 from the GUS Charitable Trust.
They are supported by a detailed Our community work is focused on two code of practice and by a supplier manual, charity partnerships: one working with both of which explain and illustrate the Argos and one with Homebase.
Each is standards we expect.
We made a number selected for a period of two years: Argos of small changes in the period under is just reaching the end of a very review including revisions to our terms on successful two-year partnership with Help workers freedom of association to the Hospices whilst Homebase is encourage better consultation embarking on year two with Marie Curie mechanisms and support the right to Cancer Care.
The Argos Tick to Give collective bargaining.
The supplier manual initiative also enabled Argos customers to has been translated into Chinese and elect to add 20p to their purchase which presented face-to-face to key was then donated to Help the Hospices overseas suppliers.
37 Charitable donations k Each charity partner is selected from a shortlist by a staff vote, and then Cash donations 264 becomes the focus for fundraising and GUS Charitable Trust 336 giving for stores.
In July 2007, Argos is Volunteering 64 launching a new partnership with Gifts in Kind 37 Leukaemia Research UK and Barretstown Management resources 100 Republic of Ireland who both focus on Company donations 801 cancer-related illnesses and dedicate their Monies raised by colleagues 1,204 resources to improving the quality of life Tick to Give 119 for those affected.
Donations generated from others 1,323 The GUS Charitable Trust was funded by Total donations 2,124 GUS plc prior to the demerger in October 2006 with such donations funding projects in the period under review.
The community programme in future years The Groups corporate responsibility will be financed through direct policies and performance have been contributions recorded and spent in the assessed by a number of independent relevant year.
third parties in the past year: Management and governance of The Group is listed in the FTSE4Good Corporate Responsibility CR Index, meeting all the relevant social and environmental criteria.
CR is the responsibility of the company secretary.
The Board receives regular The Group is also listed in the Dow updates, focusing on the significance of Jones Sustainability Index, which and risks associated with CR issues.
selects the top 10% from a universe of 3,000 global companies, based on The Operating Board plays an important comprehensive sustainability criteria.
role in policy approval and also in agreeing significant initiatives and The Group was one of only three investments.
A sub-committee of the retailers short listed for the 2007 Retail Operating Board has been formed to act Week CSR Award.
as a corporate responsibility steering The Group produces a comprehensive group.
The steering groups terms of on-line CR Report each year, and all reference include: disclosures are independently verified.
reviewing external developments and Full data can be found at emerging best practice www.
monitoring implementation of policies recommending corporate responsibility policies to the Operating Board monitoring corporate responsibility risks overseeing external corporate responsibility reporting HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Business Review Corporate Responsibility
