2 annual report & accounts two thousand & seven Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report the Companys applications.
It produced profits more third consecutive year of record than 36% above last year, thanks to results.
Profit before taxation in 2007 excellent markets and efficient was 90.7m 2006 80.8m, a 12% production, especially in US increase.
Manufacturing, in the North Sea and in South-East Asia.
The Company continues to be focused on North America with increasing Capital expenditure increased contributions from the international substantially to meet continued high arena.
The energy markets we serve demand and to replace equipment are volatile, but your Company has which has been working flat-out for performed well, increasing its pre-tax some years.
A number of smaller profits despite sterling our reporting acquisitions were also made.
currency strengthening significantly Basic earnings per share were 44.0p, against the US and Canadian dollars an increase of 17% on the previous in which we mainly trade.
We are recommending a final Two significant international trends dividend of 5.7p per share, giving a from the last few years have come total of 8.25p for the year, a 10% increasingly to the fore.
resources have become harder to find We intend to appoint a new Finance and deliver to consumers.
The worlds Director, Peter Rose CA, with effect oil and gas reserves, once mainly in from the Companys Annual General the hands of the major international oil Meeting.
Peter has been with us since companies, are now substantially July 1997, initially as Group Financial controlled by state-owned national oil Controller and also as Company companies.
Both of these trends play Secretary since August 2004. to the Companys strengths.
Deeper and higher pressure reserves require The current Finance Director, Dennis disproportionately large quantities of Clark, has been in the post since the our highly engineered upstream formation of Hunting PLC in 1989.
He products, while national oil companies originally joined the Group in 1972 often require more from the oil service and has had a distinguished career, industry than do the oil majors.
culminating in his active involvement in the remarkable growth of the past Gibson Energy, the Companys few years.
I would like to extend my midstream services operation was gratitude and that of the rest of the once again busy and successful in the Board and of his colleagues for very active Western Canadian scene, Denniss outstanding achievements.
producing similar results to last year.
Even more attention is being paid by This has been a fine year for your the company to the increasing Company.
Although the world proportion of hydrocarbon production economic outlook is cloudier than in deriving from conventional heavy oil recent years, it seems certain that and from the huge Athabasca tar hydrocarbon demand and the need for sands reserves.
The key performers in our products and services will 2007 were the Truck Transportation continue to be strong.
I expect the operation with the largest crude oil Company to continue to perform well.
fleet in Western Canada and the I thank our staff for their hard work Terminals and Pipelines operation.
and dedication during another Although the Marketing Division successful year.
found that very high oil price levels and volatility impacted on some of its trading opportunities, it remained highly profitable.
Hunting Energy Services concentrates on the upstream side of the oil industry, providing sophisticated Richard Hunting 07 equipment mainly for below-ground Chairman annual report & accounts two thousand & seven 3
