CHAIRMANS STATEMENT another strong set of results progre I AM PLEASED TO REPORT ANOTHER STRONG SET OF RESULTS FOR THE GROUP IN 2007, WITH ENCOURAGING PROGRESS ACROSS MOST DIMENSIONS OF THE BUSINESS.
Revenue, operating profit, operating China, and doubled our facility for and we expect normal order patterns margin and earnings per share all Fluid Power in Mexico.
to be fully restored by the middle showed significant progress over of the year.
Order intake for the We returned a further 93m to the prior year.
first two months of 2008 is ahead of shareholders through our share the equivalent period last year.
Our Fluid Controls businesses buyback programme during the Revenues in 2008 are expected to delivered another strong result, year, acquiring a further 5.1% of our be at similar levels to last year, with buoyed by continuing strength in share capital.
We will continue with a resumption of growth expected in energy markets in particular.
The a buyback programme in 2008 which, early 2009.
Our organisation has acquisitions of Kloehn for 30m in alongside our continuing acquisition worked hard to put corrective June and Pneumatex for 19m in programme, should deliver further actions in place, implementing September, are welcome additions progress towards our medium term rigorous compliance procedures to the business and have made an target for net debt of between and terminating a number of encouraging start in the early 400m and 500m.
Net debt at employee contracts.
Our Retail the end of 2007 was 233m.
Dispense businesses enjoyed a return Looking to the future for IMI as Adjusted earnings per share to growth on the back of a number a whole, I am delighted with the increased by 11% to 42.5p.
of new product launches and some strength and depth of our new The Board is recommending that the significant new contracts.
products pipeline, and by the quality final dividend be increased by 9% to and breadth of our key account Operating profit, before 12.7p.
This makes the total dividend relationships.
Our focus remains restructuring, investigation costs, for the year 20.2p, an increase of 8% on attracting and retaining the best intangible amortisation and other over last years 18.7p.
possible talent to help us take full income increased by 10%, and the The independent investigation into advantage of the considerable operating margin improved from improper payments within our Severe opportunities available to us.
We are now two Service business is now largely thirds of the way through our 3 year IMI people complete and the Company restructuring programme to move The IMI people featured in this report continues to cooperate with the US a greater proportion of our are representative of the 14,700 Department of Justice.
Additional manufacturing capacity to low cost people across the world who work costs in 2008 are not expected to economies, and the benefits are directly for the Group.
We are, be material but will be dependent on beginning to accrue as expected.
increasingly, a skills-based business how the US Department of Justice During the year we trebled the size and we continue to invest in decides to proceed.
Our business is of our manufacturing operation for innovative programmes to develop recovering well from what has been Beverage Dispense equipment in our individual and team talents.
a period of considerable disruption 8 Chairmans statement ss The skills, expertise and energy that my colleagues across the world bring to the Company is the most important factor in the success of IMI and I am deeply grateful for their continued hard work, commitment and enthusiasm.
Outlook Trading in the first two months of 2008 has been encouraging, with organic sales up over 7% and order intake in all our business divisions comfortably ahead of last year.
The order book at the end of February 2008 was 13% up on last year.
Generally our customers in industrialised economies continue to have confidence in their medium term prospects and the strong momentum in emerging markets has been maintained.
Providing end markets remain supportive, the combination of a full new products pipeline, strong emerging markets growth, and lower operating costs arising from our recent restructuring programme should enable us to make further good progress in 2008.
Norman B M Askew Chairman 5 March 2008 IMI plc Annual Report 2007 9
