Chairmans statement The year 2007 saw Imperial deliver on its key objectives.
Whilst it was a year not without its challenges, by the end of it the following had been achieved: Significant appraisal and exploration work including 34 new wells and major seismic acquisition which increased our SPE based reserves, subsequently confirmed in the newly published independent reserves report 229% growth in Russian Registered Reserves over the year The end of year target production rate of 10,000 bopd was exceeded before end of December Our two major pipelines, being 208km in aggregate length, built during the year, each with their own processing and custody transfer facilities and tie-ins were commissioned and flowed oil direct to the Transneft system Exploration licences of Imperials subsidiary Allianceneftegaz were extended for two years By the end of 2007, Imperial was transformed into a production company with the necessary backbone and infrastructure to deliver that production to market.
Our new oilfield services company, Rus Imperial Group, continues to develop and is now operating the first of its rigs, No.
501, successfully, on Imperials Snezhnoye field.
The first part of the year was not without controversy.
Whilst this inevitably diverted others and also our attention away from our core business, we nevertheless achieved our key goals, albeit with some delay and at a greater cost than originally anticipated.
In 2008 we are concentrating on the major job in hand.
This year we have effectively doubled the aggressive production challenge we set for 2007, namely a year end production target of 25,000 bopd.
Key events which have already occurred in 2008: Imperials independently estimated 2P reserves increased to 920 million boe and our aggregate 3P reserves now stand at 3.4 billion boe Continued increase in Russian Registered Reserves a further 15% rise to 432 million boe in the first three months a 630% increase since 2006 Exploration licences for Block 74 extended for a further two years Since the effective date of the independent reserves report further new discoveries have been made in the Tomsk region which have not been taken into account in the present reserve estimates The Kazakhstan exploration well currently still drilling shows initial promising signs of hydrocarbons Our third pipeline, extending to 152kms, the first East of the Ob river in the Tomsk region has completed its construction phase and now enters the testing phase After disappointing February and March production levels, production rates have registered upward momentum Rus Imperial Group is now successfully operating as an independent unit and has made a new discovery with its first well for Imperial drilled ahead of projected time Approximately US$600 million rights issue announced in April 2008 Forthcoming events targeted for 2008 are: The completion of Imperials 72-well drilling programme The commissioning of Imperials third pipeline in the Autumn Significant increase in Russian Registered Reserves Strategic action in relation to Rus Imperial Group The development of a strategy to utilise Imperials gas reserves Delivery on Imperials end of year production target rate Continuing technical evaluation of the Kazakh prospect Dividend Taking into account the stage of Imperials development, the Directors do not recommend the payment of any dividend 2006: nil.
Operations A summary of the main operations undertaken by the Group in 2007, developments subsequent to the year end and plans for the remainder of 2008 are set out in the Operational Review.
Financial resources Imperial is in the midst of a capital intensive programme, the result of which is designed to propel the Group forward to meet its current and future year targets.
The Group has invested heavily in major infrastructure and equipment.
US$225 million will have been spent by the end of 2008 on pipelines and infrastructure alone.
A further US$100 million has been invested in Rus Imperial Group where Imperial is currently considering strategic options to unlock shareholder value and potential.
The Companys extensive drilling programme brings its own significant costs.
All this is against a background of the very volatile credit markets and cost inflation in our industry.
Taking into account that Imperials current bank facility matures in November this year, and the need to secure Imperials capital expenditure requirements to ensure it is financed through to early 2010, at which point, based on its current work programme, positive cash flow generation should sustain the capex required to meet the Groups production targets, Imperial has announced to raise approximately US$600 million by way of an equity rights issue.
Board appointments During 2007, John Hamilton joined the Board as Group Finance Director replacing Guy Smith who left the Board with our gratitude at the end of the year.
John has added an important dimension to Imperial bringing with him many years of experience as an oil and gas banker at ABN AMRO.
Ekaterina Kirsanova, one of the first employees of Imperial in Russia, joined the Board as an executive director at the start of 2008.
Also during the year, Rob Shepherd joined the Board as a non-executive director.
Rob was formerly also with ABN AMRO as an oil and gas specialist having trained with Shell prior to his banking career.
Current prospects and outlook Operationally, the year has started with frenetic activity with the emphasis on logistics, moving heavy equipment and supplies into place for the 2008 drilling season.
From April onwards, we expect to see new wells progressively coming on stream with a parallel emphasis on maintaining satisfactory levels of production from our existing well stock.
Imperial has come a long way since it joined AIM in April 2004 with no reserves, no production and no infrastructure.
Within a short space of time, from a standing start, through its own organic efforts and with the ongoing support of its shareholders, Imperial has achieved one of the largest reserve bases of any independent E&P company on the London Stock Market, demonstrated a critical path to material production, built its own pipeline network and associated infrastructure now extending to over 350km across the largest swamps in Europe and created from the ground up its own oilfield services division using latest technology equipment.
Whilst the industry and the environment in which Imperial carries on its business bring many challenges each day, the Directors remain confident, though not complacent, as to the Groups successful prospects.
Peter Levine Executive Chairman 15 April 2008
