Chairmans Statement Clear direction In this, my first year as Chairman, I am delighted to be reporting another record set of results.
have been efficiently and effectively integrated and delivered significant value for our shareholders.
The acquisition of Commonwealth Brands was completed in April 2007, offering us considerable opportunities to expand into this highly profitable market.
In July, we announced a proposed cash offer for Altadis of 50 per share, and are delighted that our shareholders voted overwhelmingly in favour of the proposed acquisition at our EGM in August 2007.
We expect the transaction to complete in January 2008.
Our geographic prole includes regions offering important opportunities for long term sustainable growth combined with Iain Napier core market strengths.
We are focused on Chairman expanding our current geographic prole to deliver further profitable volume growth, with We remain committed to creating value for expansion during the year in the Americas, our shareholders and, as a result of our Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia.
continued and consistent focus on this We have grown cigarette market shares strategy, we have delivered another record within every region and this performance is operational and financial performance.
complemented by our world leadership in ne cut tobacco, rolling papers and tubes.
Earnings and Dividends We have continued to focus on cost This year has been dened by growth, control throughout every aspect of our both acquisition-led and through organic business, with further cost savings achieved developments in new and existing markets.
We have effectively We have continued our focus on costs and used our cash by investing appropriately in the effective management of the cash we acquisitions, in market developments generate.
This successful combination has particularly in our Rest of the World and delivered an increase in adjusted earnings Rest of Western Europe regions and in our per share of 12 per cent to 136.7 pence.
Basic earnings per share was 134.3 pence 2006: 122.2 pence.
Corporate Governance The Board recommends a final dividend Shareholders, customers, suppliers, of 48.5 pence per share, bringing the total employees and society in general expect dividend for the year to 69.5 pence, up 12 1 Imperial Tobacco to act responsibly and to per cent on 2006 2006: 62.0 pence.
high standards at all times.
We are committed to maintaining high standards of Corporate A Year of Progress Governance.
We have in place a set of Successful acquisitions have been a governance structures and practices designed hallmark of Imperial Tobacco over the last to ensure that the Group is run responsibly decade.
Since our listing on the London in the best interests of its shareholders.
Stock Exchange, we have invested 6.2 Further information is available on pages billion in acquisitions, in accordance with 37 to 47 of this report.
our strategic and financial criteria.
These 1 If approved by shareholders the dividend will be paid on 15 February 2008 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 January 2008. www.
com 3 Chairmans Statement continued Directors Report Open and Transparent Reporting Total Shareholder Return Imperial Tobacco has always been committed to open and transparent reporting.
In the Over the past three years our total shareholder return Business Review formerly known as the was 106 per cent and we have out performed the Operating and Financial Review you will nd a section identifying the Key Performance FTSE All-Share Index by 74 per cent.
Indicators KPIs that the Board uses to measure progress against strategy and a 225 section outlining the principal risks facing the Group.
We have also integrated the key aspects of our Corporate Responsibility 200 performance within our Business Review.
175 150 125 100 Sep 04 Sep 05 Sep 06 Sep 07 Imperial Tobacco Total Shareholder Return is a p13 FTSE All-Share index Key Performance Indicator Derek Bonham private reasons.
David Cresswell, We were deeply saddened by the death Manufacturing Director, will retire at the of Derek Bonham, our former Chairman, end of December 2007.
I would like to in September 2007.
Derek worked tirelessly express my sincere thanks to them both as our Chairman, guiding Imperial Tobacco for their outstanding contribution to the through its demerger from Hanson, its success of the Company during their listing as an independent company and long service.
through its subsequent transformation Colin Day resigned as a Non-Executive into the worlds fourth largest international Director as a consequence of his overall tobacco company.
business commitments in February 2007 and, as previously announced, Vice Board Changes Chairman Anthony Alexander will retire We regularly review the composition of from the Board at the Annual General the Board to ensure it continues to provide Meeting in January 2008. the most effective leadership for the Groups Finally I thank all our employees for their contribution to these strong results.
My development as well as planned and ambition is to continue to build on our orderly succession.
excellent track record and keep Imperial Reecting our ongoing focus on the Tobacco performing successfully.
We strategic and profitable development of have the people, the brands and the drive the business, I was delighted to welcome to succeed.
Alison Cooper as Corporate Development Director in July 2007.
To ensure the continued appropriate balance of the Board, Michael Herlihy and Mark Williamson were appointed as Non-Executive Directors, also in July 2007.
We reluctantly accepted the resignation of Frank Rogerson as Corporate Affairs Iain Napier Director in July 2007 for personal and Chairman 4 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report Business Review Directors Report: Business Review 6 Chief Executives Strategic Review 7 Proposed Acquisition of Altadis 8 World Tobacco Market Context 9 Understanding Our Operating Environment 11 A Strategy that Delivers Globally 12 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 13 Measuring Our Performance 14 Financial Review 16 Operating Review 18 United Kingdom 19 Germany 22 Rest of Western Europe 23 United States 24 Rest of the World 25 Manufacturing 28 Corporate Responsibility www.
