Introduction by the Chairman Record revenue growth Results Earnings per share I am delighted to report that Intertek Basic earnings per share were 46.7p, up 14.2% performed strongly in 2007, demonstrating over last year.
Diluted adjusted earnings the effectiveness of our business model and per share, before amortisation of intangibles strategy.
Revenue increased to 775.4m, up arising on acquisitions and impairment of a record 16.7% over last year.
This was goodwill were 49.7p, up 15.0%.
achieved despite the average exchange rate for the US dollar being nearly 9% weaker Dividends against sterling, which reduced reported An interim dividend of 5.8p per share revenue when translated into sterling.
2006: 4.6p was paid to shareholders on 13 November 2007.
The Directors will propose Operating profit was 116.1m, up 18.3% a final dividend of 12.2p per share at the over last year.
Operating profit before the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2008, amortisation of intangible assets arising on to be paid on 19 June 2008 to shareholders acquisitions and impairment of goodwill on the register at close of business on adjusted operating profit increased to 6 June 2008.
If approved, this will make 121.6m, up 19.0%.
Our adjusted a full year dividend of 18.0p per share operating margin increased by 30 basis 2006: 14.8p, an increase of 21.6%.
This is in line with our dividend policy and Vanni Treves Chairman reflects the good performance of the Group.
At constant exchange rates, revenue and As announced in our last Annual Report, adjusted operating profit grew 22.5% and our intention is to pay an annual dividend 27.2% respectively, and on a like-for-like that is covered at least two and a half times basis, organic revenue and adjusted by earnings.
operating profit increased by 13.0% and 15.2% respectively, reflecting the strong Board changes growth in our underlying businesses.
As previously announced, after 34 years with the Group, Raymond Kong retired on Acquisitions 11 May 2007.
I would like to express my We completed 16 acquisitions in 2007 for deep gratitude to him, on behalf of his total consideration of 100.0m 2006: 36.9m.
fellow Directors, employees and customers, Details of the acquisitions are given in the for his outstanding contribution towards business review by division.
We continue building the Consumer Goods division into to see many opportunities to acquire the successful business it is today and for businesses in our chosen industry sectors his excellent contribution to the Board, on and so far in 2008 we have completed which he served for the past three years.
for total consideration of 17.5m, five We wish him a happy and healthy retirement.
acquisitions which further widen the scope and range of the services we offer.
On 1 January 2008, Mark Loughead joined the Intertek Board as Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer for the Group.
Mark was previously Executive Vice President of our Oil, Chemical & Agri division and has 30 years experience in the industry, 19 of which have been with Intertek.
I congratulate and welcome Mark and look forward to his pursuit of opportunities to increase our growth and value for our customers and shareholders.
6 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 1 2 1 London 2 Rio fide Janeiro Biographies of each of the Board members Organisation changes Basic earnings per share are set out on page 31.
In 2008, we are dividing our four operating divisions into seven.
This reflects the growth Employees and change in composition of our business, The growth reflected in this strong set of particularly in the Oil, Chemical & Agri 46.7p results has been delivered by the dedication division which will be split into three to and expertise of the Groups employees better support the needs of our customers.
in providing value to our customers.
At the Each division will build on the strong end of 2007, the Group employed over foundations already in place to grow both 21,300 people in 110 countries, an increase organically and through strategic 1 Dividend per share of 3,100 people over last year.
This new structure and the new employees joined the Group in the dedication of our management and businesses that we acquired in the year.
employees will enable us to concentrate on On behalf of the Board, I would like to developing our business sectors to create 18.0p welcome all new employees to Intertek value for our customers and shareholders.
and to thank all our employees around the world for their commitment to making 2007 Outlook such a successful year.
Demand for Interteks services is driven by product variety and innovation, growth in 1. Dividend per share is based on the interim dividend paid of 5.8p 2006: 4.6p plus the proposed final Climate change regulatory requirements and standards, and dividend of 12.2p 2006: 10.2p.
Intertek is committed to play an important increasing environmental awareness, as well and positive role with respect to climate as global trade and the drive to increase change.
We advise our clients as an integral quality and safety.
Therefore, our growth part of our business, on many issues which drivers are not directly correlated to total have an impact on the environment, such as consumer or business expenditure, which the chemical content of their products and means we are well placed to withstand a packaging, the energy efficiency of their global economic slowdown.
Indeed, our equipment, CO emissions and the disposal services can help our customers remain 2 of harmful substances and waste electrical competitive in more challenging market products.
We also provide advisory and conditions.
Furthermore, we are also very consultancy services to help retailers and well diversified, both geographically and manufacturers design their products and across industry sectors, which would help services to comply with current and future mitigate any impact in the event of an environmental regulations around the world.
Through our services we help our clients to minimise the environmental impact of We expect 2008 to be another good year their products for the benefit of society for Intertek.
We are also mindful of our own impact on the environment and are working on various initiatives to reduce this.
This is discussed further in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 25 to 29.
Vanni Treves Chairman Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 7
