Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 01 Message from the Executive Chairman Michael Grade k 2007 was a watershed year for ITV plc.
We put in place the strategy and the team to meet the challenges of the new digital era.
With a much improved performance on-screen, we have countered the myth that ITV is a business managing decline.
We have set out ambitious targets for our Global Content and Online businesses.
Our focus now is on implementing the Turnaround strategy and delivering sustainable growth.
02 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Message from the Executive Chairman Michael Grade The transition to digital marks the start of a new era for ITV.
In November 2007 digital switchover in the UK started as the The ITV Senior Executive team was considerably strengthened town of Whitehaven turned off its analogue signal.
In Global Content, we recruited Dawn Airey, latterly of the whole of the UK will have switched over to digital.
Rupert Howell, a major figure from the advertising sector, joined us in the crucial post of Managing Director of ITV The transition to digital marks the start of a new era for ITV.
Carolyn Fairbairn, formerly of the BBC For 25 years, ITV1 lost share to new services, for example and McKinsey, leads our strategy and development function.
The UKs leading commercial channel Entering 2008, we have confirmed that Peter Fincham, the appeared locked into an inexorable cycle of decline, exacerbated controller of BBC1 until October 2007, will join ITV as Director by poor performance.
In this role, Peter will replace Simon Shaps, who has performed a great job for ITV over many years and has been By the end of 2007, over 85% of UK homes had converted to Director of Television since 2005. digital.
The multichannel fragmentation effect began to ease and ITVs performance improved.
ITV1s audience started to ITVs clarity of purpose is evident in the Turnaround strategy that stabilise and the channel enjoyed a number of programming we set out in September 2007.
Our vision is for ITV to be the UKs successes from enduring favourites like Coronation Street and favourite source of free entertainment.
We set a revenue target Im A CelebrityGet Me Out of Here!
to new hits, like Britains Got for the Company of 3-5% compound annual growth to 2010, Talent, Kingdom and Primeval.
A blue chip roster of major sports rising to 5% to 2012.
The Global Content business aims to included Champions League football, Formula 1 motor racing and double its annual revenues by 2012.
Our broadcast channels the Rugby World Cup.
aim to deliver a share of commercial impacts at or above 38.5% in 2012.
We also plan to deliver 150 million of Online annual Structural changes to the schedule paid off with gains in daytime revenues by 2010. and over the summer.
Over the full course of 2007, ITV1 actually delivered to its advertisers more viewers than it had the previous Our plan will be self-funding.
We have continued with the year, in terms of commercial impacts.
programme of disposing of non-core businesses, which has now raised over 600 million since merger.
During 2007, we disposed ITV Productions played its part, delivering half of the channels of our stakes in Liverpool FC, Arsenal FC, MUTV and ITFC.
original commissions and more than half of its total impacts Such disposals will fund acquisitions which are consistent with with a slate extending from Emmerdale to Mobile, from Parkinson our content-led growth plan.
During the year, we took a majority to Ant and Decs Saturday Night Takeaway, from This Morning stake in US producer Jaffe Braunstein Entertainment, a 25% to Tonight with Trevor McDonald.
ITV productions for both ITV1 stake in new producer Mammoth and acquired UK independent and other broadcasters continued to win plaudits and prizes, producer 12 Yard.
with successes including The Queen, See No Evil, The Street and Longford.
75% of all programmes excluding sport on all Our Turnaround strategy is not founded on any assumptions UK channels delivering audiences over 10 million in 2007 were of regulatory relief.
However significant regulatory relaxation is made by ITV Productions.
overdue in commercial public service broadcasting PSB.
Ahead of the launch of the Ofcom PSB review, ITV set out its detailed plans However, ITV Productions was not able to deliver revenue growth for modernising regional news.
We recognise that these will have to match such on-screen successes, with drama for ITV1 and implications in terms of regional staffing, but we believe that it production for other UK channels both down compared to 2006. is right to be open about our plans and their rationale.
Our plans The new strategy and structure, together with personnel changes would ensure that every home in the country retains access made towards the end of the year, are aimed at improving this to a high-quality ITV regional news service from 2009, whilst performance in 2008. maximising investment in original network programming, ITVs digital channels came of age in 2007, generating in excess where the core public interest lies.
of 200 million of advertising and sponsorship revenues.
It should be remembered that terrestrial television has always itv.
com completed its successful relaunch and now offers a state faced limitations in delivering at the sub-regional and local levels of the art broadband experience.
In November, ITV announced with multiple unresolved boundary issues stretching back over a joint venture with BBC Worldwide and Channel 4 to provide decades.
Broadband delivery faces no such technical limitations a broadband service offering access to thousands of hours of and puts regional choice with the viewer, rather than the archive programming from the UKs top broadcasters.
com was rolled out across all our regions We are determined that ITVs strong on-screen performance in during 2007, supplementing our on-air regional coverage and 2007 should mark the beginning of a revival in the Companys allowing us to target local classified and display advertising, a fortunes.
To this end, during the year, we put in place the team new market for ITV.
and the strategy to deliver future growth.
In other areas, regulatory reform remains imperative.
In September 2007, the OFT confirmed its intention to review the Contract Rights Renewal CRR mechanism which has applied to the sale of ITV1 advertising since 2003.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 03 I am confident that the business is in better shape going into 2008.
Our improved on-screen performance in 2007 has mitigated BSkyBs acquisition of a 17.9% stake in ITV plc was subject to the worst effects of CRR.
In January 2008, the Secretary of State confirmed that BSkyB would be required But in a rapidly changing market, ITV still remains unduly to reduce its stake to below 7.5%, although the decision is being restricted: ITV now faces competitors who didnt even exist appealed.
The Board will continue to act in the best interest of in 2003.
We look forward to participating in the review process all shareholders.
The Board has reviewed the level of the final dividend in light 2007 was also a year when trust in broadcasting came to the fore.
of the performance of the Company over the course of 2007, All the major UK broadcasters faced issues over their operation of current trading conditions and the outlook going forward.
In 2007, premium rate services PRS and allegations of misleading viewers.
ITV plc NAR fell by 0.3% on the previous year with strong growth ITV acted swiftly when problems started to emerge, suspending in ITV digital channels offsetting a decline in ITV1 revenues.
In the all our PRS activities until systems were independently assessed first quarter of 2008, ITV plc NAR is expected to be up around by Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte.
We commissioned Deloitte 1.9%, growing ahead of the total market.
to undertake a review going back over two years.
Where problems have been established, we have made full disclosure, offered full In the light of this trading context and the Companys stated recompense to viewers and improved our systems.
We have policy of building back to 2 to 2.5 times dividend cover in the committed to donating in full to charity any viewer refunds that medium term, the Board proposes that the final dividend for are not claimed.
the year should be held at 1.8 pence per share to be paid on 1 July 2008 to shareholders on the register on 18 April 2008.
ITV is also co-operating fully with Ofcoms inquiry into the PRS incidents on ITV channels and we await the outcome of their In February 2007 Sir James Crosby was appointed senior adjudication.
GMTV, which is 75% owned by ITV, faced serious PRS independent director and Chairman of the Nomination issues of its own in 2007 relating to the conduct of its on-screen Committee.
Agns Touraine and Heather Killen joined the Board in competitions and received a substantial fine from the regulator.
August 2007 and John Ormerod in January 2008.
Sir Robert Phillis resigned from the Board in 2007 and John McGrath in early 2008.
Such incidents for the most part appeared to stem from The Board is grateful to Bob and John for their significant misguided editorial judgments taken with a view to maximising contribution to ITV plc over the last few years.
viewer enjoyment, not from any desire to maximise PRS revenues.
Nonetheless we let our viewers down and that is In February 2008, Dawn Airey and Rupert Howell were appointed inexcusable.
We are determined to restore public trust in ITV directors, providing strengthened executive representation at and UK broadcasting as a whole.
The Remuneration Committee board level.
We confirmed our intention to appoint a dedicated of the Board has taken account of PRS issues in calculating Finance Director, freeing up John Cresswell to focus on his annual bonuses awarded to the executive team.
responsibilities as Chief Operating Officer.
The Board has also extended my appointment as Executive Chairman to the end I am confident that the business is in better shape going of 2010.
All of my contractual terms including the terms and into 2008.
The launch of the new ITV1 schedule shows our period of the Turnaround Incentive Award remain unchanged.
We have launched a succession The decision provides my management team and I with the of ambitious dramas, from Honest to the genre-busting space to focus on the job to be done over the next crucial years, Moving Wallpaper Echo Beach.
We have brought News at Ten without distraction.
The weekend schedule is underpinned by great entertainment, from Dancing on Ice to Harry Hills TV Burp.
ITV made measurable progress over the course of 2007.
As the year progresses, football fans will have Euro 2008 The operational performance in the year was better than and Englands home games to enjoy on ITV, as well as the it has been for some time.
We have also started to lay the Champions League.
foundation for sustainable growth in the future.
I would like to thank all of my colleagues at ITV for their considerable effort, Our valuable production business needs to grow and deliver dedication and creativity in serving the needs of our viewers, programmes for ITV, other UK broadcasters and the international advertisers and shareholders.
We have the considerable advantage of being an integrated producer broadcaster.
Our emphasis needs to shift from producing linear programmes for one-off transmission on a single channel to 360 degree exploitation of the lifetime value of our content, across multiple platforms and territories.
We will also be investing for the future: in monetising itv.
com: in building on the success of ITV2: and in rolling out an HD service as part of our Freesat project with the BBC.
