CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW I am pleased to report another year of good progress for the company.
Sales for the year increased by 41.0 million to 888.5 million, a rise of 5% 7.0%.
Operating margins were 10.3%, compared with 9.9% in the previous year.
Operating profit increased by 9% 12% to 91.1 million and profit before tax by 6% 9% to 62.0 million.
Earnings per share increased by 17% 20% to 28.1p, excluding the one-off benefit in the year, resulting from the change in corporation tax rates.
Statutory earnings per share, including the benefits of the tax change, increased by 32% to 31.8p 2006: 24.1p.
Average sales per pub increased by 5.5% in the year under review, with like-for-like sales increasing by 5.6%.
Net interest was covered 3.1 times 2006: 3.3 times by We opened 18 pubs during the year, compared with 9 in operating profit.
Free cash flow, after payments of tax, the previous year.
The total number of pubs now operated interest, share purchases under the companys share plans by the company is 671.
We intend to open about 30 pubs and capital investment of 24.0 million in existing pubs, was in the year ending July 2008 and anticipate having sufficient 52.4 million 2006: 69.7 million, resulting in free cash flow properties in the course of acquisition and development to per share of 35.6p 2006: 42.1p.
This reduction in free cash be able to continue this rate of expansion in future years.
flow was mainly due to increases in tax, interest and reinvestment in existing pubs, the latter resulting from the Dividends provision of additional outside facilities, in connection with The board proposes, subject to shareholders consent, the nationwide ban on smoking in public places.
to pay a final dividend of 8.0p per share on 23 November 2007 to those shareholders on the register on 26 October 2007, bringing the total dividend for the year to 12.0p per share covered 2.3 times by earnings per share, Sales for the year compared with 4.7p the previous year.
increased by 41.0 million Finance to 888.5 million The company had 88.4 million 2006: 136.6 million of unutilised banking facilities and cash balances as at the balance sheet date, with total facilities of 522.2 million 2006: 492.2 million.
The years capital expenditure on Excluding 53rd week in the previous financial year.
2 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW new pub developments was more than covered by free we are the only major cash flow.
In the current financial year, any cash surplus which the company generates, after capital expenditure pub company to open and dividends, will be available for debt reduction, all pubs for breakfast share buybacks or a combination of both.
at 9am daily Return of capital During the year, 13,184,049 shares representing approximately 9% of the issued share capital were In the course of the past 18 months, we have been purchased by the company for cancellation, at a cost concentrating on the sale of Pimms in our pubs, in the of 77.0 million, representing an average cost per share summer months, and now sell more of this product than of 584p.
Further progress Food now accounts for more than 30% of our sales, As indicated in previous years, our approach is to try to compared with 17% 10 years ago: including those bar make lots of small improvements in diverse areas of the purchases made in association with table meals, diners business, creating momentum in the services and facilities now account for approximately two-thirds of our sales.
offered to customers, as well as sales and financial momentum for the company.
We continue to concentrate on recycling and believe that we recycle more than any other pub company.
In the year In recent years, we have endeavoured to increase sales under review, we recycled 3,113 tonnes of cardboard, in areas such as coffee, food especially breakfasts, 1,621 tonnes of cooking oil, 232 tonnes of paper, 80 wine, real ales and specialist spirits.
tonnes of plastic and 30 tonnes of aluminium.
In addition, we have commenced a pilot scheme on glass-recycling Coffee sales continue to increase: we are now the which we hope to extend to all of our pubs in due course.
number-one seller of Lavazza in the world.
In addition, we are the only major pub company to open all pubs for Board changes breakfast at 9am daily, selling approximately 250,000 Jim Clarke, Finance Director, has informed the board of breakfasts each week.
Fetzer Coldwater Creek, our his intention to leave the company.
He will continue to Californian house wine, is the biggest brand by volume in work at J D Wetherspoon until the end of October 2007: the on-trade, in spite of the fact that it is sold only in the board has initiated a thorough process to identify Wetherspoon pubs.
In contrast to many pub companies, a suitable successor.
our concentration on real ales has resulted in double-digit like-for-like volume increases.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 3 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT AND OPERATING REVIEW Jim has made a significant contribution to the development under considerable pressure for approximately the first of the business, leaving J D Wetherspoon on a strong 6 months, before staging an encouraging recovery in the financial footing.
I wish him well in his future career.
Given the smoking bans and our experience in Scotland, our outlook for like-for-like sales People for the 2008 financial year remains cautious, as it involves The most important factor in successful pubs is good more uncertainty than usual, although we have no doubt customer service.
Wetherspoon continues to provide a that this legislation will be to the long-term benefit of the comprehensive employee training system which has licensed trade.
With regard to costs, we believe that the won many awards, over the years, from the relevant outlook for the current financial year is approximately training bodies.
In addition, we provide monthly bonuses neutral, with a decline in utilities charges being offset by for all of our pub staff, whatever their length of service in higher payments for interest and wages.
the company: in the year under review, we spent a total of 19 million on monthly bonuses and share awards We continue our efforts to improve the business.
I would like to thank our employees, example, we are introducing a new menu in October and partners and suppliers, once again, for their excellent also planning Britains largest-ever real-ale festival, taking work in the past year.
place on 118 November and featuring 50 ales from Britains regional and microbrewers.
As a result of our strong cash flow, our dedicated our concentration on management team and our efforts to improve every area of the business, we remain confident of our prospects.
real ales has resulted in double-digit like-for-like volume increases Tim Martin Chairman 7 September 2007 Current trading and outlook Legislation banning smoking in pubs in Wales and Northern Ireland was introduced in the spring of 2007, followed by a ban in England at the beginning of July.
Like-for-like sales in July were 5.3%.
In August, like-for-like sales were 1.1%, with strong food sales offset by slowing bar sales.
In Scotland, where a ban has been in place since March 2006, sales and margins were 4 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
