JJB Sports plc Chairmans statement I am encouraged by the performance that we have achieved during the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007 with the adjusted operating profit before deducting operating expenses relating to the legal penalty and the closure of Icon stores, referred to on page 4 of this Annual report increasing by 28.1 per cent to 46.4 million from 36.2 million.
Whilst higher revenue of football replica kit generated by the FIFA World Cup and certain Premiership Team kit launches explains much of the improvement, our Serious about sport strategy which helps to differentiate our product offering from that of our competitors, together with the continuing growth from our Leisure Division, have also made significant contributions.
I believe that it is important for us to continue to differentiate our product offering from those of our major competitors and this position underlines our Serious about sport stance.
Our close relationship with the two major sports brands of adidas and Nike is contributing towards our aim, not only by way of their product ranges that we have access to, but also the beginning of the roll-out of our branded in-store areas across our chain of superstores.
The product ranges from these two major sports brands are supported by ranges from several other sporting brands and from brands which are marketed exclusively by ourselves within the UK.
The range of sporting brands that are available within our retail stores is mirrored by the wide range of products that we carry.
Whilst sports clothing, footwear and replica products make up a significant part of our product range, we also offer extensive ranges of equipment, accessories, golf products and cycles for those consumers who take part in sporting activities.
Our Leisure Division offers a concept that is unique within the UK, one where two income streams are generated from one location.
With a comprehensively fitted health club situated upon the ground floor of an out-of-town site with a retail superstore on a first floor area, with access via an escalator, the concept enables us to achieve synergies from operating cost savings, the benefit of which we are able to pass on in particularly strong value-for-money membership rates at the health clubs.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our staff and our many suppliers for the efforts they have made throughout the year which have enabled us to achieve the reported results.
Outlook On 6 June 2007, we published our Interim Management Statement which refers to our trading results for the 18 weeks to 3 June 2007.
Total revenue for the 18 weeks to 3 June 2007, including that from retail stores and from health clubs, was 1.2 per cent lower than the same period last year and includes a like-for-like decrease in revenue on operating units which have been trading for over 52 weeks, of 1.8 per cent.
However, the combined gross margin from both the retail stores and health clubs for the 18 week period was 260 basis points higher than that earned in the comparative period last year.
We pointed out that the figures for spring summer of 2006 would be difficult to match this year because of the levels of revenue from England replica kit achieved before and during the FIFA World Cup in 2006 and that if all revenue from replica products was taken out of the 18 week figures, then there would have been an increase in total revenue of 2.6 per cent.
I believe that the current year will continue to be very competitive but the continuance of the fitting-out of our adidas and Nike in-store areas whilst at the same time pushing forward with the expansion of our Leisure Division, gives me confidence for the future.
R. Lane-Smith Non-executive Chairman 6 June 2007 JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 3
