CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Sir John Banham Chairman I am pleased to report that 2006 07 has been another good theme of which was sustainability, looking at how we can year for Johnson Matthey.
Your company has continued to operate in a more sustainable way and how we can help our benefit from its long term commitment to investment in R&D customers in a transition towards a more sustainable future.
and capital expenditure and its focus on products and I was struck by the tremendous enthusiasm for sustainability technologies that benefit the environment and help to make among those attending the conference and was delighted to the most efficient use of increasingly expensive energy be able to participate in this part of the company wide process resources.
Most importantly, the year has also seen us make to develop Johnson Mattheys sustainability strategy.
good progress towards the boards main objective of delivering Every one of us can do our part to move towards a superior value to you, our shareholders.
During the year the sustainable future.
One small change that we are proposing is total return to Johnson Matthey shareholders was 16%.
Over to amend our Articles of Association to enable us to make full the seven years to March 2007, whilst the FTSE 100 index fell use of the fact that our Annual Report is available electronically slightly, Johnson Matthey shares rose by 120%.
Although we will still continue to send a The importance of our long term strategy is well illustrated printed copy to any shareholder who wants it, we expect that by a key development that took place this year.
The second half there are many who have access to the internet and would of the year saw major growth in our sales of catalysts for heavy prefer to view it online.
We estimate that production of our duty diesel HDD vehicles, a market that has been brought Annual Report generates a remarkable 15 tonnes of carbon about by tough emissions standards for buses and trucks that dioxide CO every year because of the quantity that we have 2 came into force in Europe in October 2006 and in the US in to print and the size of the report, which has grown as a result January 2007.
Our investment in developing HDD catalyst of all the regulatory content we are obliged to include.
It is also technology, testing and manufacturing infrastructure began in expensive to print.
Hopefully we can reduce its environmental the early 1990s and this long term perspective has ensured that impact significantly.
we now have a strong share of this new market.
Our non-executive directors play a vital role in the Your board is fully committed to reporting on Johnson governance of your company.
Johnson Matthey has a strong Mattheys corporate social responsibility CSR performance.
A group of independent directors and we are extremely review of our CSR performance is presented on pages 25 to 33 fortunate to have the benefit of their knowledge and many of this Annual Report and includes a section entitled Working years of experience.
Charles Mackay and Mike Dearden will Towards a Sustainable Future.
Our full CSR report can be found retire from the board at the end of this financial year on on the companys website.
This spring I attended the groups 31st March 2008.
Their considerable contributions will annual conference for its senior management team, a major be reflected in next years Annual Report.
Meanwhile on 2 Johnson Matthey Above: Johnson Mattheys new catalyst Above: Research and development at Davy Process manufacturing plant in South Korea will Technology, Stockton-on-Tees, UK.
16th April 2007 we announced the appointment of Michael On your behalf, I would like to thank all of our people Roney as a non-executive director of the company with effect around the world for their hard work and dedication during from 1st June 2007.
Mr Roney is currently Chief Executive of what has undoubtedly been a good year for your company.
Bunzl plc and has many years experience of business in In conclusion, your company is in excellent shape and Latin America, Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
continues to make good progress towards the delivery of The appointment of Dorothy Thompson as a non-executive superior shareholder value.
We are very well placed to benefit director of the company with effect from 1st September 2007 from a number of important growth opportunities over the was announced on 30th May 2007.
Mrs Thompson is currently next few years.
I am confident that the company will continue the Chief Executive of Drax Group plc and has a wealth of to produce good growth in the years ahead and I look forward experience in the energy sector as well as in Asia and Africa.
I look forward to their contributions to the work of the board in the years ahead.
During this, my first full year as Chairman of Johnson Matthey I have continued to visit many of the companys operations around the world.
During these visits I never fail to be impressed by the professionalism, commitment and enthusiasm Sir John Banham of all the Johnson Matthey people that I meet.
This reflects the Chairman emphasis that the company places on growing our management talent and developing the skills of staff at all levels of the organisation.
The investment that we make in this area is vital to equip your company to meet the challenges of the future and to ensure that we capitalise on the many exciting opportunities before us.
Over the last few years we have been making major investments in manufacturing facilities and in developing our global businesses, particularly in Asia.
The continuous development of our people will be vitally important to the success of these investments.
