Chairmans Statement The fact that our results for 2007 exceeded City analysts expectations is testament to the strength of our management team and the resilience of our local media franchises in what was a very difficult trading year for all local media companies.
As one of the largest and leading local media companies Underlying earnings per share were 34.15p compared in the UK and Ireland we cannot avoid the macro-economic to 36.66p in 2006, a reduction of 6.8%, reflecting the factors which have a direct influence on our performance.
Whilst we have experienced an improvement in trends as the year progressed, over the entire 12 months we have We generated some 54 million of cash during the year seen comparative revenue declines in all categories of and as a result our net debt at 31 December 2007, as advertising other than for property.
This reflects economic shown in note 22, reduced from 746 million in 2006 uncertainty throughout the period, a drop in consumer to 692 million.
confidence and a reduction in the growth of employment in both the private and particularly the public sector.
In total, non-recurring items before tax were 12.7 million.
The majority related to a fundamental restructuring of Results some of our businesses to reduce the cost base of the Against this background total revenues were 608 million, backroom activities of the Group in the longer term, 0.9% up on 2006.
This increase was entirely driven by together with a goodwill adjustment of 5.9 million, which revenues from acquisitions in the year, digital revenues was purely an accounting entry to comply with International and contract print sales.
At 178 million, operating profit Financial Reporting Standards.
The balance related to the before non-recurring items was 4.6% down, with the loss on sale of non-core businesses, which was more than operating margin only 1.7% lower at 29.3%.
This shows offset by the profit arising from the sale of some surplus how well the business, at all levels, has responded to properties.
reduced advertising demand at a time when we continue to invest in new media channels.
The business of Johnston Press is to provide the local communities we serve with news, information and entertainment, and to create a local marketplace for businesses and individuals to trade in goods and services.
Roger Parry 06 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Dividend to their local markets.
Part of this strategy has included The Board proposes a final dividend of 6.7p per share, the roll-out of the converged newsroom template which making a total of 10.0p per share for the year.
This was developed in our Preston publishing centre.
This has represents a 7.5% increase, providing continued dividend enabled our newsrooms to benefit from greatly increased growth within a policy of maintaining a realistic but prudent audience interaction, which has in turn helped to provide level of cover.
an even clearer focus on content of the greatest relevance and interest to our communities.
Our Business During 2007 we made only one modest acquisition so We have also continued to invest our trading closely reflects the organic operations of the business.
Our new printing facilities in Dinnington and heavily in content to ensure that our Portsmouth are working well and have resulted in publications remain closely relevant significant improvements in operating efficiency as well as generating additional contract printing revenues, primarily to their local markets.
To maintain and expand our audience reach, we launched Our efforts in this regard have been rewarded through a a number of new publications.
These are generally targeted number of awards for our publications, both in print and at specific geographic and demographic market niches, online.
Amongst these some of the more noteworthy with the overwhelming majority being monthly community achievements included the awards of campaigning weekly newsletters serving small rural areas and well defined newspaper of the year for the Grantham Journals districts within larger urban and metropolitan communities.
campaign to save its local hospital: best free weekly The primary purpose of these launches is to layer our local newspaper in Northern Ireland to the Banbridge and markets with a range of complementary publications, which District Weekender: and a number of individual awards together are able to provide advertisers with high levels of to employees.
These included Photographer of the Year at audience reach.
Given that 73% of our revenues come the Regional Press Awards to Steve Cobb, a long-standing from advertisers, this forms a fundamental and continuing member of staff at the West Sussex County Times, and part of our publishing strategy.
best newspaper coverage of multicultural issues, which was won by Anne Sheridan of the Limerick Leader.
We have also continued to invest heavily in content to ensure that our publications remain closely relevant 1.
Successful Jobs Today website www.
co. uk - on average over 14,000 jobs every day.
Grantham Journals campaign to save its local hospital.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07 Alongside our investments in print, we doubled ongoing provide added shareholder value.
However, we are annual expenditure on developing our digital channels confident that our organic approach will achieve continued to 9 million.
The increased expenditure allowed us to and rapid profitable growth.
We now operate 323 websites substantially increase the size of our digital development with a clear local focus and which are building on our core team in Peterborough, open a digital-only sales operation strength of local news resources and local advertising in London and devote greater resources to promoting our sales teams.
Across our numerous local markets we now online brands.
During the year many of our sites were have more than 8 million unique monthly users of whom a enhanced and a number of new revenue generating number are also amongst the 13 million readers we reach services were launched.
The pace of growth remained each week.
We estimate that our combined audience is in strong with digital revenues increasing by 34% and unique excess of 16 million.
We will continue to launch innovative Strategy new print products into our markets The business of Johnston Press is to provide the local communities we serve with news, information and whilst in parallel building our digital entertainment, and to create a local marketplace for businesses and individuals to trade in goods and services.
We have been doing this for many generations and now, like other local publishers around the world, we are managing a transition from being solely a print medium We will continue to launch innovative new print products to a combined print, online and mobile media business.
into our markets whilst in parallel building our digital This is enabling us to reach an even greater audience than capabilities.
Although acquisitive growth to expand our hitherto and provides advertisers with enhanced reach.
publishing footprint in the UK and Ireland remains a strategic objective, this will not be pursued unless we are We are committed to the continued expansion of our digital convinced that it will add to long term shareholder value.
media offering but we choose to do this primarily by At the present time, the market valuation of newspaper organic investment rather than acquisition.
This does not publishing companies is at a level which is unlikely mean that we are totally opposed to the idea of acquiring to encourage potential vendors to consider selling, an internet business should we consider that it would particularly given the continuing profitable and cash accelerate the development of our digital activities and generative nature of these businesses.
During the same period digital In December Non-Executive Director Les Hinton resigned revenues continued to grow strongly.
With the new presses following his move to the USA as Chairman of The Dow in Dinnington and Portsmouth now fully operational, we will Jones Company.
Les joined us in 2005 and has brought benefit from increased contract print revenues.
to Johnston Press extremely valuable insights into the likely future of media businesses.
The Board wishes him Economic growth in the UK and Ireland for 2008 is well with his new American challenge.
expected to be slower than that achieved last year.
We will have the benefit of reduced newsprint prices during the At the AGM in April 2009, Peter Cawdron will stand down year and expect to maintain a tight control over the other after ten years on the Board.
His role as Senior costs of the business, in part as a result of continued Independent Director will be taken over by Simon Waugh.
investment in IT systems to drive further operating He handed over the Chairmanship of the Audit Committee efficiencies.
However, although we expect continued to Ian Russell in August 2007. strong growth from our digital activities, the main factor influencing 2008 is expected to be a continued general As has already been announced, Chief Executive Tim lack of confidence which suggests that advertising markets Bowdler plans to retire in 2009 and during 2008 we will will remain challenging.
start the process of seeking his successor, as well as identifying new non-executives to replace those mentioned above.
Employees As mentioned earlier, 2007 was a challenging year.
The results achieved and the progress made in the business Roger Parry Chairman across a number of fronts owes a great deal to the 5 March 2008 commitment of our staff throughout the Group.
Their efforts are greatly appreciated.
Prospects In the early weeks of 2008, print advertising revenues were down on the same period in 2007 and have been 1.
The new press hall at Portsmouth under construction.
The new press ready to print.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09 traffic Knowing what our readers and viewers want allows us to have extensive local market penetrations wherever we publish.
Whether it is just a catch up on the local news, the breaking news story, the local sports results or even a nostalgic look back on recent history, the local community publisher is the first port of call for many whether it be in print or via digital channels.
Multi-Channel In every newspaper market where we publish we are also offering our communities a variety of channels over which they can access the local information that matters most to them.
This can be in our traditional newspapers, our ever developing web based presence or mobile platforms so that they can keep in touch on the move.
Market Layering We continue to layer and further segment our markets by producing more ultra local publications and targeted niche products both in print and online.
These can be for communities within communities such as Junior Football leagues or Ketterings Green Army, the local environmental campaigners, but all add to the traffic reading our publications.
Growing Audiences Any decline in local newspaper circulations is being more than offset by our rapidly growing online and mobile audiences.
Through these new channels and our strategy of layering our markets we are significantly growing our audience penetration levels, thereby maintaining our position as a leading provider of local news, sport and information.
10 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Regional coverage Scotland North Northwest Midlands South Northern Ireland Republic of Ireland 8.2 Online Unique Users million : 5 year comparison 6.6 up to 2.2 8.2m 1.4 0.9 Growth of 24% Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007
