Business Review 04 Chairmans Statement In 2007 we made some important steps in the delivery of our strategy and this has continued in 2008 2007 was characterised by some important steps in Our strategy remains consistent with that set out at the delivery of our strategy, but the year also posed the time of Listing in October 2005: to create value some operational challenges.
We added two new by optimising our existing assets, completing our divisions to our business, gold and petroleum, and growth projects and taking advantage of natural after the year end we announced the purchase of resource opportunities in the region.
a substantial power business, an area in which we already operate.
We also acquired a 14.6% stake in STRATEGY: ASSET OPTIMISATION ENRC PLC, currently valued at $4.2 billion.
The optimisation of our existing assets will be through improved ef ciency and targeted output expansion.
A major focus of the Group will be to ensure that the issues which led to reduced production in 2007 are addressed over the course of 2008.
VLADIMIR KIM CHAIRMAN % 14.6 INTEREST IN ENRC PLC PLUS THREE FURTHER ACQUISITIONS M $815 RETURN OF FUNDS TO SHAREHOLDERS KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CHAIRMANS CHIEF EXECUTIVES KEY PERFORMANCE CORPORATE STATEMENT REVIEW STRATEGY RISK FACTORS INDICATORS MARKET OVERVIEW OPERATING REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY 05 The demand for commodities and the continued This is an increase of 7% on last years full dividend strength of global mining has created in ationary of 38.5 US cents per share.
This re ects our pressures in the mining industry, which have con dence in our core business and our view that been felt in Kazakhstan.
Management will be the outlook for commodity prices should remain implementing initiatives to protect pro t margins favourable in the foreseeable future.
and maintain our competitive position as a lowest cost quartile copper producer.
Kazakhmys listed on the London Stock Exchange in October 2005, at 540 pence per share, raising STRATEGY: GROWTH PROJECTS $491 million.
The total returned in cash to On our major growth projects, in July 2007 we shareholders since Listing, from dividends and engaged Fluor to act as consulting engineers for the the share buy-back programme, amounts to pre-feasibility study at Boschekul.
The share price currently stands also been appointed to run the pre-feasibility at 17.33 representing a total capital return since study at Aktogay, for both the oxide and sulphide Listing of 221%.
These projects remain on track and in line with the guidance given in our 2007 Interim Results.
In addition to our Listing in London, approximately 2% of our shares are traded on the Kazakh stock STRATEGY: DIVERSIFICATION exchange.
We are pleased to be part of the Kazakh In April 2007 we purchased an exploration exchange, the success of which is important to petroleum block in western Kazakhstan and are now the development of businesses and the economy undertaking seismic and drilling work.
we purchased Eurasia Gold Inc. which has now been fully integrated as Kazakhmys Gold.
Kazakhmys CUSTOMERS Gold has some exciting development projects in Around 80% of our copper is sold under annual Central Asia, which are progressing to schedule.
contracts with long standing customers, principally in Europe and China.
Our business relies on these In October 2007, we became the owner of an 18.8% strong relationships and I should like to thank our interest in ENRC PLC, for $806 million, and after its customers for their continued support over the year.
successful listing in early December, we now own a 14.6% interest in this business.
The stake is currently CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY worth $4.2 billion, a 421% capital return on our The success of our Group is principally due to the investment, representing 4.64 per Kazakhmys efforts of our employees and on behalf of the Board share.
This underlines our ability to source exciting I should particularly like to thank them for their transactions in the region, creating value for our support over the past year.
We are committed to the shareholders.
welfare of our workforce and those associated with the Group, including the local communities around Since the year end, we announced the purchase of our operations.
the Ekibastuz Power Plant and the Maikuben coal eld which, on completion in the first half of 2008, Stability and development in the communities will become our newly formed Kazakhmys Power around us is part of our duty to Kazakhstan and Division.
This is the largest privately owned power this will contribute to the success of the Group.
business in Kazakhstan and it has signi cant In January 2008, we were privileged to host potential to increase current output through the first national conference on corporate refurbishment.
In a region with such strong social responsibility in Kazakhstan, chaired by the economic growth, and likely rising power prices, the President of Kazakhstan, at our operational ownership of this business offers many commercial headquarters in Zhezkazgan.
Hosting the event at opportunities and advantages, such as partnerships Zhezkazgan re ected the lead that we have taken in and off take agreements.
It also provides a hedge social development within Kazakhstan, a role which against rising power prices for our own future needs.
it is important for us to maintain.
In considering these transactions and reviewing and Health and safety remains a key issue for the Group.
setting the strategy of the Group, we have had the The number of fatalities fell from 32 in 2006 to 23 in bene t of the advice and considerable experience 2007, maintaining a downward trend set over the of our Board.
I should like to thank them for their past six years.
Signi cant improvements have been input and commitment over the year.
We place a made in several areas, such as roof falls.
It will take strong emphasis on sound corporate governance some time to ensure that the culture and behaviour, and our Board is the key to ensuring that this throughout all our operations, is based on a commitment is fully observed.
principle of safety first, but we are creating this environment as we continue to target zero fatalities.
DIVIDENDS AND RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS Metals prices were generally rm over the year, OUTLOOK leading to strong cash ows, particularly in the first We have continued to see strong demand for our six months.
In September 2007, given the unusually products.
Events in financial markets have given high metals prices and the lower than anticipated rise to uncertainty over the strength of western spend on diversi cation up to June 2007, the Board economies, but while there may be periods of recommended a return of funds to shareholders.
weakness, the underlying strength of demand from This consisted of a $390 million share buy-back the newly industrialising parts of the world, such as programme and a special dividend payment of our neighbour China, leads us to believe that the $235 million, or 50.0 US cents per share.
The long term outlook for metal demand and resources buy-back commenced at the end of October 2007 remains positive.
We are, therefore, con dent about and was completed within three months, well within the prospects for the Group.
the timetable we had outlined.
The Board is recommending an ordinary final dividend of 27.4 US cents per share which, combined with the ordinary interim dividend, represents a total payment over the year of 41.0 US cents per share.
