Chairmans statement The current and expected results depend upon commitment, excellence and hard work.
We continue to set ourselves demanding standards of performance.
In this second year of the 2005 2010 The success of YW re ects not only the continuing price determination, I am pleased to report efforts of everyone at Kelda as part of our continuing progress in our core UK water commitment to being the best in class but our and waste water operations and the focus on technology and better ways of working completion of the sale of our US regulated involving our major contract partners.
We continue water interests now nalised following to develop applications to minimise disruption to receipt of the required US regulatory customers when there are interruptions to supply approvals.
We have also already given and have increased the electronic monitoring of notice of our intent to improve our balance underground assets seeking to anticipate rather sheet and capital ef ciency by making a than just react to service breakdowns.
In particular related return of approximately 750m to I would like to report on the technology success in shareholders by means of what is known as our Loop customer service operation of a complete a B share scheme.
These actions are replacement of our computer-based billing systems consistent with our policy of focus on water which was achieved over a three year period with and waste water operations where we can no loss of continuity of service or disruption.
maximise our leverage and expertise to reduce costs, achieve regulatory outThe advances we have made help us to develop and performance and improve service standards expand our third party contract services business and regulatory compliance.
This focus KWS, which has bene ted from the full year effect bene ts our customers in the long run as of earlier contract wins.
We are on plan with the regulatory out-performance reduces prices building in Northern Ireland of 4 water treatment into the future and capital ef ciency is plants.
The KWS business now has revenues of necessary to meet regulatory and 123m per annum and has grown organically to shareholder expectations.
this level from a standing start over the last 5 years.
The smaller operations of Loop and KeyLand John Napier The performance of Yorkshire Water YW also performed well.
Chairman, Kelda Group plc continued to progress strongly.
YW was recognised as the most ef cient water and sewerage company The completion of our sale of our US regulated in the UK.
When service and overall compliance is water operations took longer than anticipated but taken into account it maintained its top 2 ranking was announced as completed following regulatory in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment approvals on 1 May 2007.
This sale in the US has OPA which compares the performance of water provided an opportunity to intensify our focus companies.
The results included a reduction in strategy and address issues of balance sheet pollution incidents and a 100% compliance of efficiency.
The sustainable optimum cost of capital waste water installations.
There was also a best is achieved by having gearing levels close to the ever performance on bathing beach standards and upper range of regulatory borrowing assumptions our leakage reduction targets were met in full.
This will be achieved by Kelda Group plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 SSSIs recovery on track had significant improvements to make as Yorkshire Water has made significant the company owns large areas of moorland progress in preventing the deterioration damaged by 200 years of air pollution of countryside designated as SSSI Sites and post-war agricultural policies that of Special Scientific Interest across the encouraged the drainage of land to create Pennines.
The Government has set a Public grazing for sheep and heather burning to Service Agreement PSA target for the improve grouse shooting.
next three years of ensuring 95% of all SSSIs are in either a favourable or recovering After working in partnership with Natural condition as judged by Natural Englands England, Moors For the Future and Pennine conservation officers.
Prospects Ltd, Yorkshire Waters SSSIs are on the road to recovery with 36% now meeting Research by Natural Englands predecessor, the PSA target an improvement of 27% English Nature, suggested Yorkshire Water against a national figure of 18.5%.
As biodiversity improves within these special habitats, it is hoped that the enhanced environment will encourage more people to visit the countryside in a responsible manner, further contributing to other Government aims to encourage people to live a healthier lifestyle.
On other important matters our commitment On board matters generally, following the making a capital return to shareholders of 750m, utilising a combination of the net sale proceeds of to excellence, ef ciency and service is also completion of the US sale, Rich Schmidt our US Aquarion and increases in our long term debt.
We matched by our focus on wider environment based Non-executive director, will be retiring from also took the opportunity to reduce our pension and community support opportunities.
The board would like to deficit by making a one time 50m contribution.
continue to take the lead in encouraging our thank Rich for his services to the company.
This will be an addition to the contribution own and contract partner staff in community agreed under the regulatory determination.
We regularly review and maintain a The audit committee and the board also mechanics of the return of capital to shareholders balance between public access, conservation and undertook a review of auditors which resulted in may seem complex to some shareholders for which security of our moorland water catchment areas  being recommended for I apologise.
The use of a B share approach is optimising opportunities for access and leisure.
appointment as auditors with effect from the year commonly used because it offers choice to We have completed the drinking water initiative ending 31 March 2008.
I would like to thank the shareholders.
in primary schools, Cool Schools, and are now outgoing auditors Ernst & Young for their support and contribution made to the company in their developing a series of healthy eating and energy The financial performance for the year was and environmental awareness initiatives which we 11 years as auditor to the group.
strong in the continuing operations with pro t hope to roll out in the coming year.
The principal contributor was community actions together with improvements In summary, a strong second year result with YW which bene ted from a regulatory price in our customer service standards has raised a good all-round performance in all areas of increase.
It did however incur a very signi cant our standing to platinum status in the Sunday ef ciency, service, regulatory compliance and increase in energy costs which was mitigated by Times Top 100 Companies that Count based out-performance which we are con dent that further increases in ef ciency and reductions in upon Business in the Communitys Corporate we can sustain.
We are on plan to execute our cost in other areas.
YW continued to out-perform Responsibility Index.
capital investment programme of 1.6bn over the regulatory targets and given this second the regulatory period.
We also look forward to year result we plan to achieve a 7.5% capital There was further external recognition of our further growth in our KWS third party contracting expenditure out-performance over the 5 year achievements when our Chief Executive Kevin business.
The current and expected results depend regulatory period ending in 2010.
We also Whiteman was named Business Leader of the Year upon commitment, excellence and hard work.
at the National Business Awards.
We also gained an We continue to set ourselves demanding invested 362.7m in the year in upgrading our clean and waste water assets.
unprecedented third consecutive award as Utility standards of performance.
Kevin would be the first to The achievement of a 12.4% improvement in acknowledge that these achievements depend earnings per share on continuing operations linked on the commitment and support of everyone to further sustainable progress in our performance in the company and our contract partners.
On has allowed the board to recommend a final behalf of our shareholders the board would like dividend of 23.0p per share.
This will make the to congratulate everyone for this magni cent full year dividend 32.25p, an increase of 6.3%, achievement and thank them for their which is within the regulatory framework that continuing commitment and support.
allows a 2% growth in real terms.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
