T Th hiis s t th hiir rd d c co on ns se ec cu ut tiiv five e y ye ea ar r o of f e ex xc ce elllle en nt t g gr ro ow wt th h r re ef flle ec ct ts s n no ot t o on nlly y t th he e s st tr re en ng gt th h o of f o ou ur r m ma ar rk ke et ts s b bu ut t a alls so o t th he e s su uc cc ce es ss sf fu ull e ex xe ec cu ut tiio on n o of f o ou ur r s st tr ra at te eg gy y Dr Michael West, Chairman C Ch ha aiir rm ma an ns s S St ta at te em me en nt t D Dr r M Miic ch ha ae ell W We es st t I am pleased to report a record set of We increased capital expenditure to 48.1m enhancing and it will only be pursued on results, which build on the successes 2006: 29.4m, which enabled us to make this basis.
In any event, the Group will retain of the previous two years.
This third further progress in modernising and sufficient financial flexibility to be able to consecutive year of excellent growth, expanding our equipment fleets, particularly successfully pursue its strategy and to which reflects not only the strength of in those parts of the Group offering the best invest in opportunities for profitable growth.
our markets but also the successful growth potential.
Any shares bought back will initially be held execution of our strategy, has in treasury.
Dividends transformed the scale and profitability Last year, the Board reviewed the Groups Strategy of the Group.
dividend policy and indicated that we would Our strategy remains the same: to extend The Group reported a significant increase in increase the dividend by 15% per annum our global leadership in specialist ground both revenue and profit, particularly from for the foreseeable future, subject to engineering through both targeted the divisions outside of the US which now maintaining three times dividend cover.
account for 44% of total Group profit, We remain committed to this policy and In 2007, we made two further acquisitions: compared to only 28% two years ago.
This also to continuing to reinvest our cash flow HJ in the US and Systems Geotechnique in has resulted in excellent profit contributions in the growth of the Group, as we have the UK.
The HJ acquisition gives us from a broad range of geographies.
expertise in the growing technology of Group revenue from continuing operations The Board is therefore recommending a Continuous Flight Auger piles which is rose by 11% to 955.1m 2006: 857.7m final dividend of 12.0p per share 2006: new to Keller in the US and further extends and our operating margin on the same 11.4p which, together with the interim our clear leadership in this market.
basis reached an all-time high of 11.2% dividend paid of 6.0p 2006: 4.2p, brings The acquisition of Systems Geotechnique, 2006: 10.4%.
Profit before tax from the total dividend for the year to 18.0p, an following on from the Phi acquisition in continuing operations was up 23% to increase of 15% on the previous years 2006, increases our presence and 103.2m 2006: 83.7m and earnings per 15.6p.
The final dividend will be paid on broadens our product range in the UK.
share from continuing operations grew by 30 May 2008 to shareholders on the register We also invested heavily in the fastest- 24% to 97.6p 2006: 79.0p before the at 2 May 2008. growing parts of the Group, particularly benefit of a one-off tax credit.
in the Middle East, Eastern Europe and Share buy-back programme Cash flow and net debt Australia.
This was rewarded with strong Given the continuing and growing strength The very strong trading result was organic growth.
In addition, we continued of the Groups balance sheet, the Board supported by an increase in cash our expansion into new geographic regions, proposes to use its existing authority to buy generated from operations to 117.2m with additions to our network of offices back up to 5% of the Companys ordinary 2006: 98.3m.
Net debt at the end of the around the world and the performance of shares during the remainder of 2008. year stood at 54.5m 2006: 38.6m, after our first contracts in Brazil, Greece, The Directors believe that such a buy-back expenditure of 34.5m on acquisitions.
programme will be earnings per share 6 6 Keller Group plc C Ch ha aiir rm ma an ns s S St ta at te em me en nt t O Ou ur r m ma ar rk ke et ts s a an nd d c co om mp pe et tiit tiio on n Local National International regional in larger countries such as US, Australia Competition Competition Competition Local competition is highly fragmented comprising In Europe, competition is often owned by general Few competitors can claim to have a truly global many small businesses, often family-owned, with contractors.
In the US and Australia, these capability, strong financial credentials and the limited equipment capacity and few or single services are usually outsourced.
Independent ability to offer a full product range.
national competitors tend to be privately owned.
Types of project Types of project Types of project Standard foundations for small to medium As local markets, plus foundations for larger Very large scale, requiring capacity or expertise structures, where ground conditions are relatively structures and complex solutions for more difficult which may not be available in-country.
Often direct foreign investment, where funders or clients choose to use contractors with whom they have worked in other parts of the world.
Kellers advantage in this segment Kellers advantage in this segment Kellers advantage in this segment Our regional structure and agile organisation We have a wide network of subsidiary companies Largest independent operator with a global enables us to compete with local players for smalland branch offices employing local people with presence.
knowledge of: national building codes Able to follow known customers into new We undertook around 8,500 contracts last year, of local language and business culture geographic markets.
which 85% had a value of less than 250,000. local ground conditions Can pool resources and expertise from around the globe.
In 2008, we shall continue to make strategic The hard work, commitment and long The US, which still accounts for around half progress by allocating resources to markets service of our employees is not something of our revenue, remains our biggest market.
which offer good growth and by taking which we take for granted and we are as Here, non-residential construction, which advantage of the opportunities presented determined as ever in our aim to provide generates the vast majority of our US by our highly fragmented industry.
a working environment in which all business, is forecast to show further 1 can prosper.
modest growth in 2008, although Makers residential is not expected to pick up for In the UK, after several years of Our Board some time.
Within non-residential, public underperformance, we have now We were pleased to appoint Mr Roy infrastructure is likely to continue to grow at substantially exited our non-core Makers Franklin, OBE to the Board in July 2007. a good pace, whilst the private sector is business and its results have been shown Roys appointment strengthens the Board expected to be broadly flat.
Elsewhere, we as a discontinued operation.
The combined and brings extensive experience to Keller, expect our growth markets particularly the trading losses and exit costs totalled particularly with regard to international and Middle East and Eastern Europe to remain 14.2m before tax, in line with the guidance strategic matters.
strong in the medium term.
In our other main previously given.
regions, we do not foresee any significant Mr Keith Payne, who joined the Board in change in market conditions overall.
1999, stood down at the end of January Our Employees 2008 and I would like to thank Keith for the In the first few weeks of 2008, new orders, Some of the real challenges of the past valued contribution he has made to the tendering and trading have all been few years have been to retain our best Group over the years.
At the end of January, we employees who, in strong markets, have had a record order book, with all four been much in demand: and to attract and Outlook regions ahead of the same time last year, develop others who share our priorities with Whilst the likely impact of the current global giving us a good platform for the remainder regard to safety, quality and productivity.
economic uncertainty remains unclear, we of this year.
The recent expansion of our business has believe that the increased scale of our demanded significant recruitment and skills business, particularly outside of the US, gives training, particularly of new engineers and D Dr r M Miic ch ha ae ell W We es st t the Group better geographic balance and field operators.
Most of this training is highly 28 February 2008 means that we now have greater protection specialised and requires substantial input against economic cycles.
Furthermore, the from our managers.
They have risen to the complementary nature of our businesses challenge and devised new and increasingly and their increased ability to pool resources effective ways of ensuring that our have strengthened the Groups capacity to employees are properly equipped to do the participate in large-scale development excellent work we require of them.
1 The American Institute of Architects Consensus Construction Forecast, 11 January 2008 C Ch ha aiir rm ma an ns s S St ta at te em me en nt t Keller Group plc 7 7 T Th ha am me es s W Wa allll, L Lo on nd do on n Justin Atkinson, Chief Executive centre and James Hind, Finance Director right review progress on a contract at Queenshithe Wharf, London.
Steve Worthington, South West Region Contracts Manager for Systems Geotechnique left describes the operations to stabilise part of the Thames River wall.
