Laird had an outstanding year in 2007.
Nigel Keen Chairmans statement Strategy The Board Over recent years Laird has been transformed from Martin Rapp, an executive director of The Laird Group, a diversified industrial group into a focused will be appointed Managing Director with effect from electronics and technology company.
We now serve 31 March 2008. specialist high growth markets with a broad set of complementary proprietary products, obtaining In order to better reflect our new focus, approval will a competitive edge through technology and be sought at the Annual General Meeting to change customer service allied to a well established, and the name of The Laird Group Public Limited Company still expanding, low cost manufacturing base.
divestment of Laird Security Systems in April 2007 was a key part of this strategy.
Our Employees Laird has a skilled and dedicated 14,500 strong Continuing Dividend Growth international workforce.
The enterprise and The Boards dividend policy is to increase returns enthusiasm of our people is central to the realisation to shareholders progressively over time, reflecting of our strategy and our continued success.
On behalf both the underlying profitability of the Company of the Board I would like to congratulate them on and the cash requirements of the business.
In line their achievements in 2007 and thank them for their with this policy, the Board is recommending a final hard work and loyal support.
dividend of 7.88 pence per share.
This represents a total dividend for the year of 11.5 pence per share, Maintaining the Momentum an increase of 12% compared with the 10.3 pence Laird had an outstanding year in 2007.
This is in addition to the special divestment of the Security Systems Division in April dividend of 50 pence per share paid in June 2007.
2007 completed the transformation of Laird into a focused electronics and technology company and Corporate and Social Responsibility allowed the return of approximately 100 million As a member of the FTSE4Good index, Laird to shareholders in June 2007.
Our continuing recognises the need to behave as a good corporate technology based business delivered excellent citizen and remains committed to a programme of growth in both revenue and operating profits, while continuous improvement in all areas of corporate total underlying profit before tax for Laird was responsibility.
From 2008 Laird will begin adopting again a record.
2007 ended strongly and 2008 has the Electronics Industry Code of Conduct EICC, begun well, and we are confident of making further a code of best practice adopted by some of the good progress during the year.
The strength of our worlds major electronics brands and their suppliers business, together with the capabilities of our people covering key areas of social responsibility.
Further give us the ability to deliver value through innovation.
details of the Groups corporate responsibility activities are available in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of this report.
