Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Chairmans statement I am pleased to introduce this years report, in my first year as Chairman.
Financial Performance This has been an unsatisfactory year for the Company and its shareholders.
Profit failed to reach our targets and fell well below where market expectations were a year ago.
This adversely affected our share price, as did the market re-rating of the sector which has extended into the first quarter of 2008.
The bright spots were the encouraging performances in the Nordics, France and Germany and a strong Public Sector performance in the UK.
Outside the Public Sector, we had a difficult year in the UK.
Our commercial sectors declined and we encountered a problem with a complex contract for a long-term customer, against which we had to take a provision.
Our outlook for 2008 is included on page 30.
Board Dr Martin Read decided to retire in May 2007 after 14 David Tyler, Chairman years as CEO.
In thanking him for his contribution over the years we wish him well for the future.
The Directors then invited me to join the Board and to take the lead in Risk finding a new CEO.
In the second half of 2007, the Board re-examined We are delighted with the outcome of this search.
While our internal risk control Andy Green, who joined us on 1 January 2008, is the processes were found to be effective, some improvements have been made.
Our goal is to ideal person to lead this Group.
He worked for BT for the last 21 years and in recent years played a key role manage and mitigate risks without inhibiting the S ee pages 54 to 55 for a more detailed list of our principal as the Board member responsible for the development open entrepreneurial culture which will drive growth.
It is already clear in his first three months with Logica that he brings us a clear Shareholder Value strategic vision and highly effective operational skills.
A key to success for the Company is to align In the interim before Andys arrival, Jim McKenna management rewards to the interests of shareholders.
led the business capably through a very challenging As a result, we intend in future to ensure a period.
He has now decided to step down later in 2008 significant portion of Board and Senior Management and I would like to thank him for his professionalism remuneration is share-based.
A component of our and commitment throughout his 14 years at Logica.
Non-Executive Directors fees is therefore now being The Company also said goodbye to my predecessor paid in shares from 2008.
We have also changed our as Chairman, Cor Stutterheim, who retired in October share retention policy, now expecting the CEO to hold after 37 years with the Group.
We owe him a debt of shares equivalent to 200% of his annual salary and gratitude and will miss his commitment to the Group requiring other Executive Directors to hold 100%.
as well as his great sense of humour.
George Loudon also retired in October after nine Looking forward, the Boards top priority is to years as a non-executive director and Angela Knight maximise value for shareholders.
Given the quality will be retiring at the AGM after a similar length of of our employees, I am confident that, under Andys service.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank new leadership, Logica has the opportunity to deliver them both for their significant contributions and superior returns in the years ahead.
wise advice through an extraordinary period in the Groups history.
