04 Chairmans Statement Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Chairmans Statement Luminar is the leader in the late night dancing business, has strong cash flows, is committed to growing shareholder value and has clear strategy and direction.
I Oceana Nottingham STRATEGY Improving our operational effectiveness The last year has seen Luminar culminate its shift The key deliverables within this are: in focus to operate venues that are leaders in I Increase admissions by 5%: their own marketplaces as well as opening 12 units of its own chosen brands: Oceana, Liquid I Increase gross margin by 0.5%: and Lava & Ignite.
I Deliver a 4.0m central cost reduction: Luminar remains extremely cash generative and I Reduce development cost per square foot to has embarked on a 3 year programme of 120 per sq ft for Oceana and 100 per sq ft returning excess cash to shareholders.
Much progress has been made towards achieving Improving our financial effectiveness our strategy of creating an optimal business of The key deliverables within this are: 120 high quality venues by 2009.
The Board is singularly focused on delivering its clear plan and I Dividend cover of 2 times: strives to consistently achieve high returns for I Share buy-back of 70.0m over 3 years: shareholders.
I Return on investment of 25% post-tax.
The Groups strategy is more clearly focused around 3 key streams to create enhanced The successful completion of the sale of the shareholder value.
Entertainment Division and some additional noncore clubs in January 2007 was a transformational Maintaining momentum towards the deal.
This generated 126.4m of value, 2009 business structure comprising an investment in associate of 30.3m, The key deliverables within this are: 76.8m of cash and a 19.3m vendor loan note.
I Development of our high quality branded In addition to this disposal, the Group exited a destination product: target 80 by 2009: further 13 properties bringing the total disposals to 111 units.
These additional units generated I Maintaining and retaining a successful portfolio proceeds of 12.1m and incurred lease of unbranded clubs: target 40 by 2009: surrender payments of 1.0m.
I Delivering our development programme with The programme of share buy-backs commenced superior returns on investment: target 25%.
during the year returning 23.0m excluding Luminar plc 05 Chairmans Statement Annual Report 2007 expenses to shareholders.
The programme will BOARD DIVIDEND continue into 2007 08 in accordance with the Keith Hamill left the Board on 5 December The Board is pleased to announce a final dividend 70.0m target previously announced.
The Board wishes to record its thanks to of 12.32p per share, giving a dividend for the year proceeds will be augmented with the proceeds him for his contribution as Chairman of the of 17.20p per share 2006: 15.18p per share, an from the sale of the Entertainment Division, and Group since December 2001. increase of 13% from the prior year.
This gives a returned to shareholders.
dividend cover for the year of 2.5 times, which is Brendan McLoughlin left the Board on in line with the policy of progressively moving to a More detail on the Groups performance is 30 November 2006 and David Longbottom dividend cover of two times.
included within the Business Review on pages 6 left the Board on 13 April 2007.
These to 19, which follows this statement.
This replaces Directors made a significant contribution to the SUMMARY the former Operating Review and Financial Groups affairs and the Board is grateful to them The Group is by a significant margin the largest Review, in order to meet the requirements of for their efforts.
and most experienced nightclub operator in the the EU Accounts Modernisation Directive.
It has strong cash flows, Debbie Hewitt and John Jackson joined the outstanding assets and well-motivated, capable RESULTS Board as Non-Executive Directors on and experienced staff.
The Groups strategy is The results are set out in the financial statements 14 February 2007 and 1 March 2007 being successfully implemented and we are well on pages 43 to 46.
They are also discussed in respectively.
on track with the programme to deliver the Business Review.
Tim OGorman was appointed as Company substantial shareholder value through the share Revenues from continuing operations have Secretary on 8 March 2007. buy-back programme.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Groups 2007 08 development programme is This was driven principally by growth in sales The Groups Corporate Social Responsibility progressing well with 2 new branded openings within the Dancing Division.
Profit before tax Statement is set out on pages 20 and 21. and 1 refurbishment since the year end.
The early from continuing operations pre-exceptional conclusions in relation to the smoking ban from The Groups activities are principally in the late items has increased by 11% to 26.7m 2006: the Welsh units have been similar to the effect night market for entertaining, dancing and 24.0m.
experienced in the Scottish market and we have drinking with the sale of alcoholic drink being a Earnings per share from continuing operations learned from our experience in both regions.
The Group places increased by 5.0p per share to 20.7p per share Preparations for the forthcoming smoking ban in considerable emphasis on developing, 2006: 15.7p per share with earnings from total England are well on track.
maintaining and monitoring policies and operations increasing by 48.1p per share to processes designed to protect the well-being and Luminar is midway through its transformation.
welfare of customers and employees.
The Group Having achieved clarity on our strategy, we are well Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and is also committed to taking account of the on the way to creating the optimal shape of the amortisation EBITDA pre-exceptional items interests of the communities in which it operates.
Now our energy is directed at achieving from continuing operations has been maintained our stated operational KPIs, delivering efficiency and CURRENT TRADING at 54.8m.
EBITDA pre-exceptional items from hence returns.
Finally, we can focus on the content Like-for-like sales for the first 10 weeks of the continuing and discontinued operations is down of our units, which will drive growth and maintain financial year were up 7.3% for branded dancing.
16.6m to 70.5m 2006: 87.1m due to our market leadership.
Therefore, the Board is During the first 10 weeks gross margins have disposals during the year.
confident in the Groups future prospects.
continued to strengthen following the rigorous implementation of managements operational ALAN JACKSON effectiveness actions.
Chairman 16 May 2007 I Oceana Kingston upon Thames
