About Anglo American Chairmans statement During 2007, Anglo American made great progress in becoming a focused mining company and showed it is prepared to pursue new business opportunities more aggressively in order to seek out and unlock value 04 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 About Anglo American see also p14 p61 Operating and financial review Directors report Anglo American delivered another exceptional Benefits to communities Energy and water challenges financial performance in 2007.
We made significant progress in achieving our strategic Throughout the world we are seeking to Last year will be seen as the year when objective of becoming a focused mining group, increase the beneficial development impacts of electricity supplies began to move noticeably principally through the demerger of Mondi, our operations.
I would highlight two strands of out of balance with demand in a number the decision to sell Tarmac, our construction work.
Firstly, our Socio-Economic Assessment of important countries where we operate, materials business, and the further reduction Toolbox SEAT process which progressed to including South Africa, Chile and Brazil.
The in our holdings in AngloGold Ashanti and an updated version in 2007.
This improves the ability to resolve these shortfalls is constrained Tongaat-Hulett.
This greater focus provided a understanding of people in our operations of the by the high costs of construction and limited strong platform for the Group to move into a needs and priorities of their local communities availability of key capital goods.
Thus, a key more expansionary mode where value creating and enables them to make a greater contribution objective is to achieve a step-change in our opportunities exist.
Secondly, we are seeking energy efficiency.
This will, in turn, contribute Given the greater homogeneity between to replicate the success of our South African to our environmental objective of reducing our our mining businesses, important steps are enterprise development unit, Anglo Zimele.
carbon footprint alongside abatement projects being taken to realise the benefits of a This is already being achieved in Chile where such as using methane in electricity generation One Anglo approach in relation to our microfinance initiative helped over or carbon capture and storage in Australia: procurement, support services, talent and 900 business people to get established last co-investment in the FutureGen project in the knowledge management.
During 2008, we hope to establish a US: and taking forward Clean Development 2007 was another disappointing year for similar initiative in Brazil.
safety, with 40 fatalities a reduction of only However, if companies are to have a Water shortages have become more four over the prior year.
The Board strongly continuing incentive to invest and to develop pronounced in a number of important mining endorsed the much higher profile on safety deposits in riskier jurisdictions, all stakeholders countries.
This requires us to innovate.
In adopted by our new chief executive.
need to recall the cyclical nature of our business South Africa, for example, it has led to the Cynthia Carroll has succeeded in communicating and the current intense cost pressures facing establishment of the Emalahleni water that business as usual is not an acceptable the industry.
Benefit sharing models have to treatment plant which converts waste mine approach in the face of the deaths and injuries reflect periods of market weakness as well water into water suitable for domestic and occurring at some of our operations.
There may as the good times.
We also need to improve be some loss of production in the short term, The current commodity cycle has been the efficiency of our production processes.
but this is a sacrifice well worth making if it driven by both strong demand and limited An example of this is our Los Bronces expansion produces a safety performance based upon a supply.
Demand has been strong against a project in Chile where we will reduce our use culture of care and respect for our workforce backdrop of synchronised expansion across the of fresh water by some 40% per tonne of and contractors.
Moreover, we believe that major economies and has been fuelled by rapid copper produced.
safe operations generally excel in terms of urbanisation in China.
There were signs Significant supply constraints include overBoard and employees of improvement in the second half of the year, heating in the supply chain and the fact that but it is too early to say if this is sustainable.
projects are typically taking longer to secure the In regard to Board membership, I would like to necessary consents.
But a crucial learning is the note the departure of Tony Trahar who stepped Changing global economy role that sustainable development concepts will down as chief executive in March: David Hathorn, play as we bring new operations to account.
chief executive of Mondi: Simon Thompson, The growth of China, India and other emerging Thus, we find ourselves giving increasing executive director of Anglo American plc: and of markets is transforming the balance of power attention to skills, energy security and climate Bobby Godsell, who retired last year as chief in the world economy at an unprecedented rate.
change, water shortages and the legacy in a executive of AngloGold Ashanti and who is This will involve the emergence of more number of countries of under-investment in stepping down from our Board after many years customers and competitors as well as potential critical infrastructure.
service to the Group in both executive and nonpartners from these countries.
Given our In response to skills shortages, we are executive roles.
Ralph Alexander also retired as a well-established presence in China and our investing strongly in scholarships, bursaries non-executive director as a result of other work commitment to develop projects there, we are and internships, pre-employment training and commitments.
I would like to record our thanks to well placed to build from this platform.
in raising the educational attainments of some each of them.
As part of the process of refreshing High commodity prices have sharpened of our existing workforce to enable them the Board, I am pleased that Sir CK Chow has the competition between stakeholders to progress.
For the longer term, the Anglo agreed to submit himself for election as a director governments, communities, unions, suppliers American-funded Epoch and Optima trusts have at the AGM.
to secure a bigger share of the current market identified the teaching of maths and science in In closing, I would like to thank our employees upside.
We have seen changes in the fiscal South African schools as a priority resulting for their work in delivering a further set of regime of a number of countries to reflect this.
in an annual injection of approximately impressive results and in contributing to the As part of our empowerment transactions $5 million of additional funds.
countries and communities where we work.
in South Africa we have sought to encourage equity participation by local communities and employees.
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart Chairman Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 05
