Chairmans Statement Our strong operating cash flow also enabled us to Delivering Growth: Investing for the maintain both a high level of capital expenditure Future within our core businesses and also to expand our I am pleased to report a year of further progress, investments in new businesses, primarily Natural with sales of 402.9 million being 6.6 per cent Stone and Premier Mortars.
ahead of 2006 and profit before tax of 42.1 million increasing by 1.0 per cent.
These investment activities underline our confidence in the long term future of the Group These results were achieved after investing some and our determination to maintain and develop 4.3 million of revenue costs in developing future the quality of our underlying assets.
business streams, primarily our Landscape Installations Display Centres and Natural Stone Marshalls is also committed to being a proactive initiatives.
Taking these and other one-off items and responsible organisation within the business into account the underlying growth in operating and social communities in which it operates.
profit was 9.2 per cent during the year.
A more detailed explanation is given in the Operating and In the business context we have achieved a high Financial Review on pages 6 to 23. level of recognition for aspects of sustainable business performance by making the Business in The results were also achieved despite a the Communitys top 100 'Companies that Count challenging operating environment, with the with our Maltby site being the first active extreme wet weather in the mid year being manufacturing site to be awarded The Wildlife recovered in a strong autumn and winter trading Trusts Biodiversity Benchmark.
In the community context we have continued to These results, and the commensurately strong invest in local communities initiatives close to our balance sheet, allow us to declare a final dividend operations and were delighted to be awarded the of 9.30 pence per share which, together with the Best Promotional Partnership at the National interim dividend paid, make a total dividend for Payroll Giving Awards in October 2007. the year of 13.85 pence 2006: 13.15 pence per share.
All of these achievements are made possible only by the efforts of all those engaged with us: suppliers, advisors and customers.
In particular, I would again pay tribute to all those who work within Marshalls and whose energy and commitment are such hallmarks of the Company.
We enter 2008 with a strong sense of purpose but also with some sensitivity regarding the overall state of the economy.
We intend to continue our development plans and will maintain a strong emphasis on cash management and prudence in our balance sheet.
Mike Davies Chairman 7 March 2008 Natural Stone Granite Street Furniture, Glasgow 4 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 MTR Lightstacks, Wembley Stadium Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 5
