MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Notes to the consolidated financial statements 79 Transactions between, and balances with, Group companies are 1.
Basis of preparation eliminated together with unrealised gains on inter-group transactions.
Meggitt PLC is a public limited company listed on the London Stock Unrealised losses are eliminated to the extent the asset transferred is Exchange, domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in not impaired.
The accounting policies of acquired businesses are England and Wales with the registered number 432989.
Its registered changed where necessary to be consistent with those of the Group.
office is at Atlantic House, Aviation Park West, Bournemouth The following items in respect of the acquisition and disposal of International Airport, Christchurch, Dorset, BH23 6EW.
subsidiaries are excluded from the underlying profit measures used by Meggitt PLC is the parent company of a Group whose principal the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the activities during the year were the design and manufacture of high Group see note 10 : performance components and sub-systems for aerospace, defence Any amounts by which the fair value of net assets of an acquired and other specialist markets, including energy, medical, industrial, subsidiary exceed the cost of acquisition: test and automotive.
Acquisition related expenses: The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared Any gain or loss arising from the disposal of a subsidiary:and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Any changes in the fair value of contingent consideration payable in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and the Companies Act respect of the acquisition of a subsidiary or receivable in respect of 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated the disposal of a subsidiary.
financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of Foreign currencies certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative Functional and presentational currency instruments at fair value.
The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Groups subsidiaries are measured using the functional currency of the The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group in the primary economic environment in which the subsidiary operates.
preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Transactions and balances These policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of unless stated otherwise.
exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are reported at the Basis of consolidation rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of differences on retranslating monetary assets and liabilities are the Company and all of its subsidiaries.
A subsidiary is an entity over recognised in the income statement except where they relate to which the Group has the power to govern its financial and operating qualifying cash flow hedges or net investment hedges in which case policies.
The existence and nature of potential voting rights that are exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
currently available to the Group are considered when determining Foreign subsidiaries whether the entity is a subsidiary.
The results of subsidiaries acquired The results of foreign subsidiaries are translated at the average rates are consolidated from the date on which control passes to the Group.
of exchange for the period.
Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries The results of subsidiaries disposed are consolidated up to the date on are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet which control passes from the Group.
Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the results The cost of an acquisition is the fair value of consideration provided, and opening net assets of foreign subsidiaries are recognised as a including the fair value of any contingent consideration, as measured at separate component of equity in hedging and translation reserves.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of contingent Exchange differences on borrowings designated as net investment consideration are recorded in the income statement.
Identifiable hedges of foreign subsidiaries are also recognised in hedging and assets and liabilities of an acquired business that meet the conditions translation reserves.
for recognition under IFRS 3 are recognised at their fair value at the When a foreign subsidiary is sold, the cumulative exchange differences date of acquisition.
To the extent the cost of an acquisition exceeds the relating to the retranslation of the net investment in the foreign fair value of net assets acquired, the difference is recorded as subsidiary are recognised in the income statement as part of the gain goodwill.
To the extent the fair value of net assets acquired exceeds the or loss on disposal.
This applies only to exchange differences recorded cost of an acquisition, the difference is recorded immediately in the in equity after 1 January 2004.
Exchange differences arising prior to income statement.
Acquisition related expenses are recognised in the 1 January 2004 remain in equity on disposal as permitted by IFRS 1 income statement as incurred.
First time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
When a subsidiary is acquired, the fair values of its identifiable assets Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a and liabilities are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
All foreign subsidiary are treated as assets and liabilities of the subsidiary fair value adjustments are recorded with effect from the date of and are retranslated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the balance acquisition and consequently may result in the restatement of sheet date.
When a subsidiary is disposed, the difference between the fair value of consideration received or receivable and the value at which net assets of the subsidiary were recorded, immediately prior to disposal, is recognised in the income statement.
Any contingent consideration receivable is measured at fair value at the date of disposal in determining the gain or loss to be recognised.
Contingent consideration is measured at fair value at each subsequent balance sheet date, with any changes in fair value recorded in the income statement.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Segment reporting Exceptional operating items Operating segments are those segments for which results are Items which are significant by virtue of their size or nature, which are reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM to considered non-recurring and which are excluded from the underlying assess performance and make decisions about resources to be profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure the allocated.
The CODM has been identified as the Board.
The Group has underlying performance of the Group see note 10 are classified as determined that its current segments are Meggitt Aircraft Braking exceptional operating items.
They include, for instance, adjustments to Meggitt Systems, Meggitt Control Systems, Meggitt Polymers & the fair value of contingent consideration payable in respect of an Composites, Meggitt Sensing Systems and the Meggitt Equipment acquired business or receivable in respect of a disposed business, Group.
costs directly attributable to the acquisition or disposal of businesses, the costs of integrating significant acquisitions, significant site The principal profit measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying consolidation and other restructuring costs and gains or losses made operating profit as defined in note 10.
A segmental analysis of on the disposal of businesses.
Additionally in 2013, given its underlying operating profit is accordingly provided in the notes to the significance and non-recurring nature, the raw material supply issue financial statements.
described in note 11 has been treated as an exceptional operating item.
Segmental information on assets is provided in respect of trading Exceptional operating items are included within the appropriate assets which are defined to exclude from total assets amounts which consolidated income statement category but are highlighted separately the CODM does not review on a segmental level.
Excluded assets in the notes to the financial statements.
comprise centrally managed trading assets, goodwill, other intangible assets excluding software assets, derivative financial instruments, Intangible assets deferred tax assets, current tax recoverable and cash and cash Goodwill equivalents.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair No segmental information is provided in respect of liabilities as no value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired and such measure is reviewed by the CODM.
liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, and also whenever events or changes in circumstances Revenue recognition indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Goodwill is carried at cost less amortisation charged prior to 1 January 2004 less Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or accumulated impairment losses.
In the event the subsidiary to which receivable in respect of goods and services provided in the normal goodwill relates is disposed of, its attributable goodwill is included in course of business to external customers, net of trade discounts, the determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
returns and sales related taxes.
Research and development Sale of goods Research expenditure is recognised as an expense in the income Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of statement as incurred.
Development costs incurred on projects where ownership have transferred to the customer, managerial involvement the related expenditure is separately identifiable, measurable and and control of the goods is not retained by the Group, the revenue and management are satisfied as to the ultimate technical and commercial costs associated with the sale can be measured reliably and the viability of the project based on all relevant available information are collection of related receivables is probable.
In the majority of recognised as an intangible asset.
Capitalised development costs are instances these conditions are met when delivery to the customer carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment.
In a minority of instances bill and hold arrangements Amortisation is charged over the periods expected to benefit, typically exist whereby revenue is recorded prior to delivery but only when the up to 10 years, commencing with the launch of the product.
customer has accepted title to the goods, the goods are separately Development costs not meeting the criteria for capitalisation are identifiable and available for delivery on terms agreed with the expensed as incurred.
customer and normal credit terms apply.
Programme participation costs Contract accounting revenue Programme participation costs consist of incentives given to Original The Group is usually able to reliably estimate the outcome of a contract Equipment Manufacturers in connection with their selection of the at inception and accordingly recognises revenue and cost of sales by Groups products for installation onto new aircraft where the Group reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Revenue is has obtained principal supplier status.
These incentives comprise cash typically measured by applying to the total contract revenue, the payments and or the supply of initial manufactured parts on a free of proportion costs incurred in the period for work performed bear to the charge or deeply discounted basis.
Programme participation costs are total estimated contract costs.
Where it is not possible to reliably recognised as an intangible asset and carried at cost less accumulated estimate the outcome of a contract, revenue is recognised equal to the amortisation and any impairment.
Amortisation is charged over the costs incurred, provided recovery of such costs is probable.
If total periods expected to benefit from receiving the status of principal contract costs are forecast to exceed total contract revenue then the supplier through the sale of replacement parts, typically up to 15 expected loss is recorded immediately in the income statement.
Revenue from services Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
For cost-plus fixed fee contracts, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred plus an appropriate proportion of the fee agreed with the customer.
For other contracts, stage of completion is typically measured by reference to contractual milestones achieved, number of aircraft flying hours or number of aircraft landings.
Revenue from funded research and development Revenue is recognised according to the stage of completion of the contract.
The stage of completion is typically measured by reference to contractual milestones achieved.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 81 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Taxation Other intangible assets Tax payable is based on taxable profit for the period, calculated using a Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
For acquisitions, the Group recognises intangible assets separately Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method on temporary from goodwill provided they are separable or arise from contractual or differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their other legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
corresponding book values as recorded in the Groups financial Intangible assets are initially recognised at fair value, which is statements.
Deferred tax is provided on unremitted earnings of foreign regarded as their cost.
Intangible assets are subsequently held at cost subsidiaries, except where the Group can control the remittance and it less accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
is probable that the earnings will not be remitted in the foreseeable Where the intangible assets recognised have finite lives their cost is future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is amortised on a straight-line basis over those lives.
The nature of probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible intangible assets recognised and their estimated useful lives are as temporary differences can be utilised.
Where deferred tax arises on follows: the initial recognition of an asset or liability, other than in a business Customer relationships.............................. Up to 25 years combination, and the recognition gives rise to no impact on taxable Technology.................................................. Up to 25 years profit or loss, then deferred tax is not recognised.
Deferred tax is Trade names and trademarks.................... Up to 25 years calculated using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Order backlogs............................................ Over period of backlog balance sheet date.
typically up to 3 years Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, Amortisation of intangible assets acquired as part of a business other comprehensive income or directly in equity depending on where combination is excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the item to which they relate has been recognised.
the Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
Impairment of non-current non-financial assets b Other purchased intangible assets Assets are reviewed for impairment annually and also whenever events Purchased licences, trademarks, patents and software are carried at or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is charged on a recoverable.
To the extent the carrying value exceeds the recoverable straight-line basis over their estimated useful economic life, typically amount, the difference is recorded as an expense in the income over periods up to 10 years.
The recoverable amount used for impairment testing is the higher of the value in use and fair value less costs of disposal.
For the Property, plant and equipment purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable cash flows which are largely Property, plant and equipment is recorded at cost less accumulated independent of cash flows from other assets or groups of assets.
At depreciation and any impairment, except for land which is shown at each balance sheet date, previously recorded impairment losses, other cost less any impairment.
Cost includes expenditure directly than any relating to goodwill, are reviewed and if no longer required attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
Depreciation is calculated reversed with a corresponding credit to the income statement.
on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Inventories Freehold buildings...................................... Up to 50 years Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Leasehold property..................................... Over period of lease Cost represents materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related Plant and machinery................................... 3 to 10 years production overheads, based on normal operating capacity, and is Furnaces...................................................... Up to 20 years determined using the first-in first-out FIFO method.
Net realisable Fixtures and fittings.................................... 3 to 10 years value is based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected Motor vehicles.............................................. 4 to 5 years to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed annually and When a subsidiary is acquired, finished goods are valued at fair value, adjusted if appropriate.
which is typically estimated selling price less costs of disposal and a When property, plant and equipment is disposed, the difference reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort.
Work in progress is between sale proceeds, net of related costs, and the carrying value of also valued at fair value at acquisition, which is typically estimated the asset is recognised in the income statement.
selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for work not yet completed.
When this inventory is Borrowing costs subsequently disposed post acquisition, the fair value is charged to the income statement.
The difference between the fair value of the Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction or production inventory disposed and its actual cost of manufacture is excluded from of qualifying assets, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets the underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended measure the underlying performance of the Group see note 10. use.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, which would generally Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where be at least twelve months.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in appropriate and for unrealised profits on items of inter-group the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 82 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Provisions Provision is made for environmental, legal and regulatory liabilities, Trade receivables onerous contracts and product warranty claims when the Group has a Trade receivables are stated initially at fair value, then measured at present obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not amortised cost less any provisions for impairment.
Provisions for that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the impairment are recognised in the income statement, when there is obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are objective evidence the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due discounted to present value where the impact is significant, using a according to the original terms of the receivables.
The discount rate used is based on current market recorded is the difference between the carrying value of the receivable assessments of the time value of money, adjusted to reflect any risks and its estimated future cash flows discounted where appropriate.
specific to the obligation which have not been reflected in the undiscounted provision.
The impact of the unwinding of discounting is Cash and cash equivalents recognised in the income statement within net finance costs.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held at Retirement benefit schemes call with banks.
Bank overdrafts are disclosed as current liabilities, within bank and other borrowings, except where the Group participates For defined benefit schemes, pension costs and the costs of providing in offset arrangements with certain banks whereby cash and overdraft other post-retirement benefits, principally healthcare, are charged to amounts are offset against each other.
the income statement in accordance with the advice of qualified independent actuaries.
Past service costs are recognised immediately Trade payables in the income statement unless the changes are dependent on employees remaining in service for a particular period in which case Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently costs are recognised on a straight-line basis over that period.
Trade payables are not interest bearing.
Retirement benefit obligations represent, for each scheme, the Leases difference between the fair value of the schemes assets and the present value of the schemes defined benefit obligations measured at Leases where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit capitalised at commencement of the lease at the lower of fair value of method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is the leased asset and present value of the minimum lease payments.
determined by discounting the defined benefit obligations using Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance interest rates of high quality corporate bonds denominated in the charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance currency in which the benefits will be paid and with terms to maturity outstanding.
The corresponding lease obligations, net of finance comparable with the terms of the related defined benefit obligations.
charges, are included in liabilities.
Assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset or Remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in the period in the lease term.
which they arise in other comprehensive income.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of For defined contribution schemes, payments are recognised in the ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating income statement when they fall due.
The Group has no further leases.
Payments made under operating leases, net of any incentives obligations once the contributions have been paid.
received from the lessor, are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of equity-settled and cash-settled Dividends share-based compensation schemes.
Interim dividends are recognised as liabilities when they are approved For equity-settled schemes, the fair value of an award is measured at by the Board.
Final dividends are recognised as liabilities when they the date of grant and reflects any market-based vesting conditions.
are approved by the shareholders.
Non market-based vesting conditions are excluded from the fair value of the award.
At the date of grant, the Group estimates the number of Borrowings awards expected to vest as a result of non market-based vesting Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value being proceeds conditions and the fair value of this estimated number of awards is received less directly attributable transaction costs incurred.
recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line Borrowings are generally subsequently measured at amortised cost basis over the period for which services are received.
At each balance with any transaction costs amortised to the income statement over the sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of awards period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Certain expected to vest as a result of non market-based vesting conditions borrowings however are designated as fair value through profit and and adjusts the amount recognised cumulatively in the income loss at inception, if the Group has interest rate derivatives in place statement to reflect the revised estimate.
When awards are exercised which have the economic effect of converting fixed rate borrowings into and the Company issues new shares, the proceeds received, net of any floating rate borrowings.
Such borrowings are measured at fair value directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital at each balance sheet date with any movement in fair value recorded in nominal value and share premium.
the income statement within net operating costs.
Movements in fair For cash-settled schemes, the total amount recognised is based on the value are excluded from the underlying profit measures used by the fair value of the liability incurred.
The fair value of the liability is Board to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the remeasured at each balance sheet date with changes in fair value Group see note 10. recognised in the income statement for the period.
Any related interest accruals are included within borrowings.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 83 Derivatives that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Where derivatives do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income Derivative financial instruments and hedging statement.
The Group utilises a large number of foreign currency The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure forward contracts to mitigate against currency fluctuations.
The Group to interest rate risk and foreign currency transactional risk.
Derivative has determined the additional costs of meeting the extensive financial instruments are recognised at fair value on the date the documentation requirements in order to apply hedge accounting under derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not at fair value at each balance sheet date using values determined merited.
Gains and losses arising from measuring these contracts at indirectly from quoted prices that are observable for the asset or fair value are excluded from the underlying profit measures used by liability.
The method by which any gain or loss arising from remeasurement is recognised depends on whether the instrument is designated as Share capital a hedging instrument and if so the nature of the item hedged.
The Group recognises an instrument as a hedging instrument by Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly documenting, at inception of the instrument, the relationship between attributable to the issue of new shares are deducted from the proceeds the instrument and the hedged item and the objectives and strategy for recorded in equity.
To be designated as a hedging Own shares represent shares in the Company that are held by an instrument, an instrument must also be assessed, at inception and on independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan.
an ongoing basis, to be highly effective in offsetting changes in fair Consideration paid for own shares, including any incremental directly values or cash flows of hedged items.
attributable costs, is recorded as a deduction from equity.
When such To the extent the maturity of the financial instrument is more than 12 shares are sold any consideration received, net of any directly months from the balance sheet date, the fair value is reported as a attributable costs, is recorded within equity.
non-current asset or non-current liability.
All other derivative financial instruments are reported as current assets or current liabilities.
Adoption of new and revised accounting standards Fair value hedges During the year, the following new accounting standard, and revision Changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are and amendment to existing standards, became effective and had a designated and qualify as fair value hedges, are recognised in the significant impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements: income statement within net operating costs together with changes in IAS 19 Revised 2011, Employee benefits.
The impact of this fair value of the hedged item.
Any difference between the movement in revision on the Groups consolidated financial statements, including fair value of the derivatives and the hedged item is excluded from the restatement of comparatives, is set out in note 44: underlying profit measures used by the Board to monitor and measure IAS 1 Amended, Presentation of financial statements.
The main the underlying performance of the Group see note 10.
The Group change for the Group arising from this amendment is with regard to currently only applies fair value hedge accounting to the hedging of the way in which items are presented in the consolidated statement fixed interest rate risk on borrowings.
Items are now required to be presented Cash flow hedges according to whether or not they may be reclassified to the income Changes in fair value of the effective portion of derivative financial statement in future accounting periods: and instruments, that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, are IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
This standard has not had any initially recognised in other comprehensive income.
Changes in fair significant impact on amounts recognised in the consolidated value of any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the financial statements.
It has however, required additional disclosures income statement within net operating costs.
To the extent changes in fair value are recognised in other Recent accounting developments comprehensive income, they are recycled to the income statement in the periods in which the hedged item affects the income statement.
A number of new standards and amendments and revisions to existing The Group currently only applies cash flow hedge accounting to the standards have been published and are mandatory for the Groups hedging of floating interest rate risk on borrowings.
They have not been adopted early in these consolidated financial statements.
None of these are expected to have If the forecast transaction to which the cash flow hedge relates is a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements when they no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously are adopted except as disclosed below: recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement immediately.
If the hedging instrument is sold, expires or no IFRS 9, Financial instruments.
The main change is expected to longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting the cumulative gain or relate to the way in which movements in the fair value of the Groups loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is fixed rate borrowings, attributable to changes in the Groups own transferred to the income statement when the forecast transaction is credit risk, are accounted for.
The Group is yet to assess the full recognised in the income statement.
impact of IFRS 9 which becomes effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
This standard is subject to Net investment hedges endorsement by the European Union.
Hedges of net investments of foreign subsidiaries are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges.
Changes in fair value of the effective portion of any hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Changes in fair value of any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement within net operating costs.
Cumulative gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement if the foreign subsidiary to which they relate is disposed.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups operations expose it to a number of financial risks including market risk principally foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
These risks are managed by a centralised treasury department, in accordance with Board approved objectives, policies and authorities.
Regular reports monitor exposures and assist in managing the associated risks.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is subject to foreign exchange risks on future commercial transactions and the retranslation of the results of, and net investments in, foreign subsidiaries.
The principal exposures arise with respect to the US dollar against the Pound sterling.
To mitigate risks associated with future commercial transactions, the Group policy is to hedge known and certain forecast transaction exposures based on historical experience and projections.
The Group hedges at least 70% of the next 12 months anticipated exposure and can hedge up to five years ahead.
Details of hedges in place are provided in note 30.
The Group does not currently hedge exposures arising from the retranslation of the results of foreign subsidiaries.
The Group uses borrowings denominated in the relevant currencies to hedge its net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk The Group has borrowings issued at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk whereas borrowings issued at floating rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
The Groups policy is to maintain at least 25% of its net debt at fixed rates.
The Group mitigates interest rate risks through swaps which have the economic effect of converting fixed rate borrowings into floating rate borrowings and floating rate borrowings into fixed rate borrowings.
Details of hedges in place are provided in note 30. Credit risk The Group is not subject to significant concentration of credit risk with exposure spread across a large number of customers across the world.
In addition, many of the Groups principal customers are either government departments or large multinationals.
Policies are maintained to ensure the Group makes sales to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Letters of credit, or other appropriate instruments, are put in place to reduce credit risk where considered necessary.
The Group is also subject to credit risk on the counterparties to its other financial instruments which it controls through only dealing with highly rated counterparties and netting transactions on settlement wherever possible.
Liquidity risk The Group maintains sufficient committed facilities to meet projected borrowing requirements based on cash flow forecasts.
Additional headroom is maintained to protect against the variability of cash flows and to accommodate small bolt-on acquisitions.
Key ratios are monitored to ensure continued compliance with covenants contained in the Groups principal credit agreements.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows: 2013 Less than 1-2 years 2-5 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m m Trade and other payables 316.6 1.2 2.2 1.8 321.8 Bank and other borrowings 4.1 42.4 370.4 241.9 658.8 Interest payments on borrowings 20.6 19.1 48.2 28.6 116.5 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 3.4 1.0 2.8 12.7 19.9 Derivative financial instruments: Inflows 8.2 8.5 23.5 15.8 56.0 Outflows 0.7 0.7 1.9 3.3 Total 337.2 55.9 402.0 269.2 1,064.3 2012 Less than 1-2 years 2-5 years Greater than Total 1 year 5 years m m m m m Trade and other payables 339.9 2.1 2.4 1.8 346.2 Bank and other borrowings 123.7 0.4 341.2 247.0 712.3 Interest payments on borrowings 23.7 20.6 55.9 41.7 141.9 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 3.1 0.3 0.8 3.9 8.1 Derivative financial instruments: Inflows 75.2 8.3 24.8 21.7 130.0 Outflows 68.5 0.7 2.1 0.4 71.7 Total 483.7 15.8 377.6 273.1 1,150.2 Excludes social security and other taxes of 12.5 million 2012: 12.0 million see note 25.
Assumes no change in interest rates from those prevailing at year end.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 85 3.
Financial risk management continued Sensitivity analysis The Groups principal exposures in relation to market risks are to changes in the exchange rate between the US dollar and Pound sterling and to changes in US interest rates.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups results to changes in these key variables at the balance sheet date.
The analysis covers only financial assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet date and is made on the basis of the hedge designations in place on those dates and assuming no hedge ineffectiveness.
2013 2012 Income Equity Income Equity statement statement m m m m USD GBP exchange rate - 10% 25.2 36.1 18.4 50.4 US yield curve - 1% 4.6 4.1 3.2 5.0 The impact on equity from movements in the exchange rate comprises 46.3 million 2012: 57.6 million in respect of US dollar net debt, offset by 10.2 million 2012: 7.2 million in respect of other financial assets and liabilities.
However, as all US dollar debt is designated as a net investment hedge, this element of the impact is entirely offset by the retranslation of foreign subsidiaries.
Capital risk management The Groups objective when managing its capital structure is to minimise the cost of capital while maintaining adequate capital to protect against volatility in earnings and net asset values.
The strategy is designed to maximise shareholder return over the long term.
The relative proportion of debt to equity will be adjusted over the medium term depending on the cost of debt compared to equity and the level of uncertainty facing the industry and the Group.
The Groups current post-tax average cost of capital is approximately 8% 2012: 8%.
The Groups committed credit facilities contain two principal financial covenants.
The Group has complied with these covenant requirements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Further details on the covenant requirements and the Groups performance against these can be found on page 29 of the Chief Financial Officers review.
The capital structure of the Group at the balance sheet date is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Net debt see note 40 564.6 642.5 Total equity 2,076.4 1,905.4 Debt equity % 27.2% 33.7% 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements In applying the Groups accounting policies set out in note 2, the Group is required to make certain estimates and judgements concerning the future.
These estimates and judgements are regularly reviewed and revised as necessary.
The estimates and judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts included in these financial statements are as follows: Goodwill Each year the Group carries out impairment tests of goodwill which require estimates to be made of the value in use of its cash generating units CGUs.
These value in use calculations are dependent on estimates of future cash flows, long-term growth rates and appropriate discount rates to be applied to future cash flows of the CGUs.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the carrying value of goodwill to these estimates are provided in note 18.
Fair value of intangible assets acquired in a business combination On the acquisition of a business, it is necessary to attribute fair values to any intangible assets acquired, provided they meet the criteria to be recognised.
The fair values of these intangible assets are dependent on estimates of attributable future revenues, margins, cash flows and appropriate discount rates to be applied to future cash flows.
Identified intangibles are subject to impairment testing at least annually or if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Estimates are also required of the useful life of the identified intangible assets and these estimates are reviewed at least annually, and revised if appropriate.
The Group takes advice from third parties in determining the fair values and useful lives of intangibles arising on significant acquisitions see note 20 for further details.
Development costs and programme participation costs The Group capitalises development costs and programme participation costs provided they meet certain criteria.
Costs are only capitalised where the Group is satisfied as to the ultimate commercial viability of the project based on available information.
Projects typically involve long-term relationships on aircraft platforms and, in assessing commercial viability, estimates need to be made of aircraft volumes, aftermarket revenues which are dependent on aircraft utilisation, fleet lives and operator service routines, costs of manufacture and, in the case of development costs, the costs to complete the development activity.
Capitalised costs are subject to impairment testing at least annually and, where headroom is limited or if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, more frequently see note 19 for further details.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 86 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued Environmental matters The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of certain sites for which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under US law.
Advice is received by the Group from its environmental consultants and legal advisors to assist in the determination of the timing and estimation of the costs the Group may incur in respect of such claims and appropriate provisions are made.
The Group has extensive insurance arrangements in place to mitigate the impact of historical environmental events on the Group.
To the extent estimates in respect of claims change as more information becomes available, adjustments are made to the carrying value of these provisions and, if the costs are determined to be covered by insurance, to the amounts recoverable from insurers see note 31 for further details.
Legal and regulatory The Group is subject to legal proceedings and other claims arising in the ordinary course of business.
The Group is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgements or outcomes, as well as potential ranges of probable losses.
A determination of the provisions required for these matters is based on a careful analysis of each individual issue with the assistance of outside legal counsel.
However, actual losses incurred could differ from the original estimates see note 31 for further details.
Onerous contracts The Group makes provision for any expected losses arising from onerous contracts which require estimates to be made of future contract revenues, margins, potential claims from third parties and cash flows.
These estimates are dependent on a number of factors including anticipated sales volumes, future pricing, production costs and the outcome of negotiations with third parties.
To the extent these estimates change as more information becomes available, adjustments are made to the carrying value of these provisions.
Retirement benefit obligations The liability recognised in respect of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on a number of estimates including those relating to mortality, inflation, salary increases and the rate at which liabilities are discounted.
External actuarial advice is taken with regard to the most appropriate assumptions to use.
During 2013, the determination of the discount rate for the UK scheme was impacted by a reduction in the number of high quality UK corporate bonds, following the UK sovereign credit rating downgrade.
Advice from the Groups UK actuary was taken as to the extent to which adjustments should be made within the reduced population of high quality bonds for individual bonds with significantly different yields, how to reflect the shortage of bonds at the long end of the yield curve and whether to expand the population based on issue size.
Further details on these estimates and sensitivities of the retirement benefit obligations to these estimates are provided in note 33.
Income taxes In determining the Groups provisions for income tax and deferred tax, it is necessary to consider transactions in a small number of key tax jurisdictions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
To the extent the final outcome differs from the tax that has been provided, adjustments will be made to income tax and deferred tax balances held in the period the determination is made.
If the actual outcome of events differed by 10% from the estimates made at 31 December 2013, the impact on the tax charge would be approximately 4.0 million.
Judgements also need to be made as to the extent to which deferred tax assets and liabilities can be offset against one another see note 32 for further details.
Revenue The Groups revenue is analysed as follows: 2013 2012 m m Sale of goods 1,428.8 1,417.2 Contract accounting revenue 110.1 115.1 Revenue from services 73.9 48.6 Revenue from funded research and development 24.5 24.9 Total 1,637.3 1,605.8 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 87 6.
Segmental analysis Analysis by operating segment The Group manages its businesses under the key segments of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems, Meggitt Control Systems, Meggitt Polymers & Composites, Meggitt Sensing Systems and the Meggitt Equipment Group.
Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems is a leading supplier of aircraft wheels, brakes and brake control systems.
Meggitt Control Systems is a leading supplier of pneumatic, fluid control, thermal management and electro-mechanical equipment and sub-systems.
Meggitt Polymers & Composites is a leading specialist in fuel containment, engineered aircraft sealing solutions and technical polymers, electro-thermal ice protection and complex composite structures and assemblies.
Meggitt Sensing Systems is a leading provider of high-performance sensing and condition-monitoring solutions for high-value rotating machinery and other assets.
The Meggitt Equipment Group was created to enable a set of strong, technologically distinct businesses to market their offerings to specialist customers, while benefiting from the Groups investment in shared services and common processes.
The division supplies aircraft fire protection and control systems, avionics, combat systems, live-fire and simulation training, heat transfer equipment for off-shore oil and gas, power generation, linear motion control, aircraft safety and security equipment and automotive and industrial control electronics.
Year ended 31 December 2013 The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
A detailed reconciliation of operating profit to underlying operating profit is provided in note 10.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 330.4 206.5 182.9 242.0 681.4 1,643.2 Inter-segment revenue 0.9 1.9 1.6 1.5 5.9 Revenue from external customers 330.4 205.6 181.0 240.4 679.9 1,637.3 Underlying operating profit see note 10 122.4 50.4 30.2 34.3 159.9 397.2 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 96.9 Operating profit see note 10 300.3 Finance income see note 12 0.3 Finance costs see note 13 31.2 Net finance costs 30.9 Profit before tax 269.4 Tax see note 14 37.1 Profit for the year 232.3 Exceptional operating items see note 11 1.5 5.3 6.5 15.1 28.4 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 74.5 9.1 6.7 7.6 28.5 126.4 Depreciation see note 21 8.1 2.8 3.2 7.1 11.0 32.2 Central costs are allocated using a variety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between the costs and the segments.
Bases include headcount, payroll costs, gross assets and revenue.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 50.7 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
Of the total depreciation in the year, 31.4 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
The Groups largest customer accounts for 6.6% of revenue 108.3 million.
Revenue from this customer arises across all segments.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets Development costs see note 19 24.8 11.6 2.5 15.1 16.2 70.2 Programme participation costs see note 19 31.5 3.2 1.0 35.7 Other purchased intangible assets 0.4 4.9 0.8 1.6 1.8 9.5 Property, plant and equipment 4.0 3.5 2.7 15.1 24.6 49.9 Total 60.7 23.2 6.0 31.8 43.6 165.3 Relates to those non-current assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 88 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Segmental analysis continued As at 31 December 2013 Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 502.2 Meggitt Control Systems 163.9 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 87.8 Meggitt Sensing Systems 231.1 Meggitt Equipment Group 356.3 Total segmental trading assets 1,341.3 Centrally managed trading assets 176.5 Goodwill see note 18 1,457.1 Other intangible assets 634.1 Derivative financial instruments non-current see note 30 35.5 Deferred tax assets see note 32 9.1 Derivative financial instruments current see note 30 11.2 Current tax recoverable 2.8 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 116.1 Total assets 3,783.7 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
In 2013, trading assets reviewed by the CODM include software assets.
Since software assets were not included in trading assets reviewed by the CODM in 2012, the prior year comparatives have not been restated.
Year ended 31 December 2012 Restated - see note 44 The key performance measure reviewed by the CODM is underlying operating profit.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Gross segment revenue 311.2 215.8 189.5 241.4 652.7 1,610.6 Inter-segment revenue 0.9 2.3 1.2 0.4 4.8 Revenue from external customers 311.2 214.9 187.2 240.2 652.3 1,605.8 Underlying operating profit see note 10 117.1 49.8 33.8 36.2 155.2 392.1 Items not affecting underlying operating profit see note 10 70.7 Operating profit see note 10 321.4 Finance income see note 12 2.0 Finance costs see note 13 42.1 Net finance costs 40.1 Profit before tax 281.3 Tax see note 14 45.8 Profit for the year 235.5 Exceptional operating items see note 11 2.4 2.9 0.2 7.3 6.3 13.3 Amortisation of intangible assets see notes 19 and 20 71.1 5.1 6.5 8.3 31.8 122.8 Depreciation see note 21 8.4 2.9 3.2 7.5 9.9 31.9 Central costs are allocated using a variety of bases designed to reflect the beneficial relationship between the costs and the segments.
Of the total amortisation in the year, 42.2 million has been charged to underlying operating profit as defined in note 10.
The Groups largest customer accounts for 7.0% of revenue 112.3 million.
Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Meggitt Total Aircraft Control Polymers & Sensing Equipment Braking Systems Composites Systems Group Systems m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets Development costs see note 19 16.7 12.1 0.7 9.2 13.5 52.2 Programme participation costs see note 19 33.4 2.7 36.1 Property, plant and equipment see note 21 4.7 3.6 3.1 7.6 17.6 36.6 Total 54.8 18.4 3.8 16.8 31.1 124.9 Relates to those non-current assets included within segmental trading assets reviewed by the CODM.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 89 6.
Segmental analysis continued As at 31 December 2012 Total m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 479.5 Meggitt Control Systems 145.0 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 79.3 Meggitt Sensing Systems 190.2 Meggitt Equipment Group 314.2 Total segmental trading assets 1,208.2 Centrally managed trading assets 143.3 Goodwill see note 18 1,494.2 Other intangible assets see note 20 778.9 Derivative financial instruments non-current see note 30 49.8 Deferred tax assets see note 32 100.2 Derivative financial instruments current see note 30 5.0 Current tax recoverable 0.2 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 104.9 Total assets 3,884.7 Centrally managed trading assets principally include amounts recoverable from insurers in respect of environmental issues relating to former sites, other receivables and property, plant and equipment of central companies.
Analysis by geography 2013 2012 m m Revenue UK 165.8 162.4 Rest of Europe 365.1 343.7 United States of America 811.7 818.4 Rest of World 294.7 281.3 Total 1,637.3 1,605.8 Revenue is based on the location of the customer.
2013 2012 m m Non-current assets UK 714.4 708.8 Rest of Europe 215.6 206.9 United States of America 1,953.0 2,006.6 Rest of World 8.0 8.1 Total 2,891.0 2,930.4 Segmental non-current assets are based on the location of the assets.
They exclude trade and other receivables, derivative financial instruments and deferred tax.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 90 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2013 2012 m m Raw materials and consumables used 450.6 469.7 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work in progress 5.9 22.8 Employee costs see note 9 566.1 542.7 Research and development costs expensed as incurred 40.2 44.9 Amortisation of capitalised development costs see note 19 16.9 11.6 Amortisation of programme participation costs see note 19 25.4 23.2 Amortisation of other purchased intangible assets see note 20 9.8 7.4 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations see note 10 74.3 80.6 Depreciation see note 21 32.2 31.9 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.1 0.3 Exceptional operating items see note 11 28.4 13.3 Financial instruments see note 10 6.1 23.4 Net foreign exchange loss gain 2.1 2.4 Operating lease rentals 14.3 15.5 Other operating income 4.6 4.8 8.
Auditor remuneration Payable to  LLP and network firms: 2013 2012 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates: For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements in respect of the current year 0.8 0.9 For the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements in respect of the prior year 0.1 For the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.5 For audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total 1.6 1.5 9.
Employee information 2013 2012 m m Employee costs including executive directors: Wages and salaries 441.0 422.2 Social security costs 79.1 76.6 Retirement benefit costs see note 33 34.1 31.6 Share-based payment expense see note 35 11.9 12.3 Total 566.1 542.7 Details of directors remuneration is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 47 to 67, which forms part of these financial statements.
2013 2012 Number Number Average monthly number of persons employed including executive directors: Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems 1,191 1,216 Meggitt Control Systems 1,136 1,161 Meggitt Polymers & Composites 1,979 2,092 Meggitt Sensing Systems 1,623 1,600 Meggitt Equipment Group 4,525 4,242 Corporate including shared services and centres of excellence 581 520 Total 11,035 10,831 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 91 10.
Reconciliations between profit and underlying profit Underlying profit is used by the Board to monitor and measure the underlying trading performance of the Group.
It excludes certain items as described below: 2013 2012 Restated Note m m Operating profit 300.3 321.4 Exceptional operating items see note 11 28.4 13.3 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations a 74.3 80.6 Disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations b 0.3 0.2 Financial instruments c 6.1 23.4 Adjustments to operating profit 96.9 70.7 Underlying operating profit 397.2 392.1 Profit before tax 269.4 281.3 Adjustments to operating profit per above 96.9 70.7 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 33 d 11.5 14.0 Adjustments to profit before tax 108.4 84.7 Underlying profit before tax 377.8 366.0 Profit for the year 232.3 235.5 Adjustments to profit before tax per above 108.4 84.7 Tax effect of adjustments to profit before tax 43.8 34.7 Adjustments to profit for the year 64.6 50.0 Underlying profit for the year 296.9 285.5 Of the adjustments to operating profit, 28.8 million 2012: 5.4 million relating to exceptional operating items and 0.3 million 2012: 0.2 million relating to the disposal of inventory revalued in business combinations has been charged to cost of sales, with the balance of 67.8 million 2012: 65.1 million included within net operating costs.
The Group excludes from its underlying profit figures the amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
2013 2012 m m Amortisation of other intangible assets see note 20 84.1 88.0 Less amortisation of other purchased intangible assets see note 20 9.8 7.4 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 74.3 80.6 b. IFRS 3 requires finished goods acquired in a business combination to be valued at fair value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for the selling effort.
Work in progress acquired in a business combination is also valued at fair value, which is typically estimated selling price less costs to complete, costs of disposal and a reasonable profit allowance for work still to be carried out.
The fair value of acquired inventory is thus significantly higher than the actual cost of manufacture of the same items built post acquisition, the value of which includes no profit element.
The difference between the fair value of the inventory disposed of and its actual cost of manufacture is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures.
c. Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided that the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not merited.
The Groups underlying profit figures exclude amounts which would not have been recorded if hedge accounting had been applied.
Where interest rate derivatives do not qualify to be hedge accounted, movements in the fair value of the derivatives are excluded from underlying profit.
Where interest rate derivatives do qualify to be hedge accounted, any difference between the movement in the fair value of derivatives and in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings is excluded from underlying profit.
2013 2012 m m Movement in the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts 12.0 20.1 Impact of retranslating net foreign currency assets and liabilities at spot rate 0.8 0.5 Movement in the fair value of interest rate derivatives 18.6 6.4 Movement in the fair value of fixed rate borrowings 13.5 2.6 Financial instruments gain 6.1 23.4 d. A s referred to in note 44, in 2013 the Group has adopted IAS 19 revised 2011, Employee benefits.
This revised standard has led to the net pension finance cost recorded in the income statement becoming more significant.
As net pension finance cost is a non-cash, non-trading item, the Board has decided to exclude it from the underlying profit measures it uses to monitor and measure the underlying trading performance of the Group.
Prior year underlying profit measures have been restated accordingly.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 92 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Exceptional operating items Income statement Cash expenditure 2013 2012 2013 2012 Note m m m m Site consolidations a 8.2 9.8 6.4 6.0 Integration of Pacific Scientific Aerospace PacSci b 7.2 4.8 4.6 5.6 Gain on disposal of businesses c 9.0 3.2 0.5 0.9 Raw material supply issue d 20.0 3.1 Business acquisition expenses 0.7 1.3 0.4 1.4 Other 1.3 0.6 1.2 0.8 Exceptional operating items 28.4 13.3 16.2 14.7 a. T his principally relates to the consolidation of the Groups two North American sensor businesses onto a single new site in California, USA and the consolidation of the Groups two UK avionics businesses onto a single existing site in Hampshire, UK.
These two consolidations were substantially completed in 2013. b.
The integration of PacSci has now been substantially completed, following the consolidation in 2013 of the Groups fire suppression business, acquired as part of the PacSci acquisition, onto the existing site of its fire detection business in California, USA.
c. On 23 May 2013, the Group disposed of the shares of Meggitt Addison, Inc. and realised a gain of 14.9 million.
On 20 December 2013, the Group disposed of the shares of the Sunbank Family of Companies LLC and realised a loss of 5.9 million see note 43.
Cash expenditure relates to business disposal expenses which have been treated as an exceptional operating item.
Proceeds from the disposal of businesses are reported separately as part of cash outflow from investing activities see note 43. d. O n 1 November 2013, the Group announced it had identified an issue relating to the supply from a vendor of non-conforming raw material in one of our businesses.
A solution is in place, including where necessary the replacement of the relevant parts over the next few years.
The cost of this issue is estimated to be 20.0 million.
The tax credit in respect of exceptional operating items was 10.7 million 2012: 5.4 million.
Finance income 2013 2012 Restated m m Interest on bank deposits 0.1 0.2 Unwinding of interest on other receivables 1.7 Other finance income 0.2 0.1 Finance income 0.3 2.0 13.
Finance costs 2013 2012 Restated m m Interest on bank borrowings 3.5 5.8 Interest on senior notes 15.4 19.4 Interest on obligations under finance leases 1.1 1.1 Unwinding of discount on provisions 1.7 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 33 11.5 14.0 Amortisation of debt issue costs 1.2 1.7 Less: amounts capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets see notes 19 and 20 1.5 1.6 Finance costs 31.2 42.1 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 93 14.
Tax 2013 2012 Restated m m Current tax current year 38.0 49.8 Current tax adjustment in respect of prior years 6.5 4.9 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 11.0 5.2 Deferred tax effect of changes in tax rates 5.4 4.3 Total taxation 37.1 45.8 The Finance Act 2012, included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax in the UK to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013.
The Finance Act 2013, included legislation to further reduce the main rate of corporation tax in the UK to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015.
As these changes were substantively enacted during the year, they have been reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
The impact of these changes on net deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 2013, profit for the year underlying and statutory and comprehensive income for the year has not been significant.
Reconciliation of total tax charge A reconciliation of the notional tax charge based on average standard rates of tax weighted in proportion to accounting profits to the actual tax charge is as follows: 2013 2012 Restated m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax at UK corporation tax rate of 23.25% 2012: 24.5% as restated 62.6 68.9 Effects of: Different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 14.1 16.6 Permanent differences 20.1 19.6 Temporary differences 1.5 9.4 Changes in statutory tax rates 5.4 4.3 Tax credits and incentives 4.4 3.2 Prior year credits 8.2 3.2 Total taxation 37.1 45.8 The sensitivity of the tax charge to changes in the tax rate is such that a one percentage point increase, or reduction, in the tax rate would cause the total taxation charge for 2013 to increase, or reduce respectively, by approximately 2.7 million.
Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 2013 2012 Restated Before Tax credit After Before Tax credit After tax charge tax tax charge tax m m m m m m Current tax currency translation movements 31.9 0.2 31.7 55.1 0.7 55.8 Deferred tax currency translation movements 5.3 0.2 5.1 0.4 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 46.8 21.6 25.2 4.0 2.3 1.7 Deferred tax cash flow hedge movements 1.9 0.3 1.6 5.8 1.5 4.3 Other comprehensive income 11.5 21.5 10.0 56.5 1.7 58.2 Current tax 0.2 0.7 Deferred tax 21.7 1.0 Total 21.5 1.7 Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity 2013 2012 m m Current tax credit relating to share-based payment expense 5.3 - Deferred tax credit charge relating to share-based payment expense 3.3 3.1 Total 8.6 3.1 MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 94 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Earnings per ordinary share Earnings per ordinary share EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
The weighted average number of shares used excludes any shares bought by the Group and held during the year by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust see note 36.
The weighted average number of own shares excluded was Nil million shares for both this and the prior year.
The calculation of diluted EPS adjusts the weighted average number of shares to reflect the assumption that all potentially dilutive ordinary shares convert.
For the Group this means assuming all share awards in issue are exercised.
2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 Profit Shares EPS Profit Shares EPS Restated Restated m Number m Pence m Number m Pence Basic EPS 232.3 791.1 29.4 235.5 782.3 30.1 Potential effect of dilutive ordinary shares 13.1 0.5 10.0 0.4 Diluted EPS 232.3 804.2 28.9 235.5 792.3 29.7 Profit for the year attributable to equity owners of the Company.
Underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares as is used in the calculation of basic EPS.
It is reconciled to basic EPS below: 2013 2012 Restated Pence Pence Basic EPS 29.4 30.1 Adjust for effects of: Exceptional operating items 2.2 1.0 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 5.6 6.4 Financial instruments 0.7 2.3 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 1.0 1.3 Underlying basic EPS 37.5 36.5 Diluted underlying EPS is based on underlying profit for the year see note 10 and the same number of shares used in the calculation of diluted EPS.
Diluted underlying EPS for the year was 36.9 pence 2012: 36.0 pence as restated.
Dividends 2013 2012 m m In respect of earlier years 56.9 In respect of 2012: Interim of 3.60p per share 28.1 Final of 8.20p per share 64.4 In respect of 2013: Interim of 3.95p per share 31.2 Dividends paid 95.6 85.0 Less paid as scrip dividend see note 41 20.0 13.2 Dividends paid in cash 75.6 71.8 A final dividend in respect of 2013 of 8.80p per share 2012: 8.20p, amounting to an estimated total final dividend of 70.2 million 2012: 64.4 million is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2014.
This dividend is not reflected in these financial statements as it is has not been approved by the shareholders at the balance sheet date.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 95 17.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
The remuneration of key management personnel of the Group, which is defined as members of the Board and the Management Board, is set out below: 2013 2012 m m Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 6.8 8.5 Retirement benefit expense 0.4 0.3 Share-based payment expense 3.2 4.6 Total 10.4 13.4 Interests of key management personnel, including executive directors, in share schemes operated by the Group at the balance sheet date are set out below: 2013 2013 2012 2012 Average Number Average Number award outstanding award outstanding price price Pence m Pence m Share options 348.66 0.1 182.49 0.1 Share appreciation rights equity-settled 353.23 5.7 285.74 10.1 Equity participation plan shares N A 2.8 N A 3.6 Full details of all elements in the remuneration package of each director, together with directors share interests and share awards, are given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 47 to 67 which forms part of these financial statements.
Goodwill 2013 2012 m m Cost at 1 January 1,494.2 1,544.0 Exchange rate adjustments 19.6 53.7 Businesses acquired see note 42 9.0 3.9 Businesses disposed see note 43 26.5 Cost at 31 December 1,457.1 1,494.2 Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if there is any indication of impairment.
No impairment charge was required in the year 2012: Nil and the cumulative impairment charge recognised to date is Nil 2012: Nil.
The total amount of goodwill and other intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination in the year that are expected to be deductible for tax purposes is 24.8 million 2012: Nil.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Groups cash generating units CGUs which principally comprise its individual business operations.
Goodwill is initially allocated, in the year a business is acquired, to CGUs expected to benefit from the acquisition.
Subsequent adjustments are made to this allocation to the extent operations to which goodwill relates are transferred between CGUs.
An analysis of goodwill by principal CGU is shown below: 2013 2012 m m Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems MABS 665.3 675.8 Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. 177.2 165.6 Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. Pacific Scientific HTL 129.6 132.0 Meggitt Sensing Systems MSS 82.9 73.9 Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. 68.6 69.9 Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. 62.9 64.1 Other 270.6 312.9 Total 1,457.1 1,494.2 During the year, the Group determined that the cash flows of certain individual business operations were now so closely related to those of other business unit operations within the Group, they no longer met the definition of a CGU.
Accordingly, Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. and Pacific Scientific HTL are now treated as a single CGU and MSS SBU is treated also as a single CGU.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 96 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Goodwill continued For each CGU, the Group has determined its recoverable amount from value in use calculations.
The value in use calculations are based on cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent budgets and plans for the next five years, as approved by management in December 2013.
Cash flows for periods beyond five years are extrapolated using estimated growth rates.
The resultant cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate appropriate for the relevant CGU.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are shown below: Sales volumes, selling prices and cost increases over the five years covered by managements detailed plans.
Sales volumes are based on industry forecasts and management estimates for the businesses in which each CGU operates including forecasts for OEM deliveries of large jets, regional aircraft and business jets, air traffic growth and military spending by the US DoD and other major governments.
Selling prices and cost increases are based on past experience and management expectations of future changes in the market.
Overall a cautious approach to volume levels, selling prices and cost increases has been taken given the continued global economic uncertainty.
The extent to which these assumptions affect each principal CGU with a significant level of goodwill are described below.
MABS, Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. Pacific Scientific HTL and MSS are broadly spread across both civil aerospace and military platforms with Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. and MSS also operating in the energy sector.
MABS is a leading supplier of wheels, brakes and brake control systems, particularly for regional aircraft, business jets and military aircraft.
Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. designs and manufactures fluid control devices and systems for most aircraft types and has a higher content on large jets.
Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. Pacific Scientific HTL designs and manufactures fire protection and control systems for large, regional, business and military aircraft.
MSS is a leading provider of high-performance sensing and condition-monitoring solutions for high-value rotating machinery and other assets and, within the aerospace sector, has a higher content on large jets.
All four CGUs have significant OEM and aftermarket revenue derived from sole source positions with the aftermarket, where platform lives can be up to thirty years for civil aircraft and longer for military, representing the greater proportion of revenue except for MSS which has a higher OEM content.
Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. and Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. both operate mainly in military markets.
The principal customer of Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. is the US DoD to whom Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. are a leading supplier of flexible fuel tanks.
Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. supplies integrated live and virtual training packages for armed forces and law enforcement agencies across the world.
In civil aerospace, growth in capacity terms, measured in available seat kilometres ASKs, is forecast to grow in line with the long-term trend rate of 5%, which together with the Groups growing fleet and price increases, should drive an increase in aftermarket revenue of 8 to 9% per annum over the medium term.
The Groups continuing confidence in air passenger travel growth is supported by the sustained high levels of order intake at Boeing and Airbus.
Large jet deliveries increased by 8% in 2013, and the Group expects good delivery growth over the next 5 years underpinned by continued strong recent order intake and a backlog at Boeing and Airbus which equates to over 7 years of deliveries at the current production rate.
Deliveries of regional aircraft increased by 11% in 2013, with modest growth anticipated over the next few years, driven principally by demand for 70-90 seat aircraft, on which the Group has a strong shipset content.
Total business jet deliveries decreased by 5% in 2013 but deliveries of super-midsize and long-range aircraft, where the Group benefits from particularly strong market positions, grew strongly.
Further growth is anticipated in this market over the next 5 years, driven by increasing internationalisation of the customer base and the ongoing improvement in the US economy.
In military markets, defence budgets are likely to remain under pressure over the medium term.
Sequestration has been implemented in the US, and although the effect in 2014 is unlikely to be as severe as initially anticipated, a cautious stance on near-term revenue growth has been assumed.
However, the Group has key positions on future growth platforms and, in the absence of any clarity on where cuts will ultimately fall, continues to anticipate average compound organic military growth of around 2% per annum in the medium term.
Growth rates used for periods beyond those covered by managements detailed budgets and plans.
Growth rates are derived from managements estimates which take into account the long-term nature of the industry in which each CGU operates, external industry forecasts of long-term growth in the aerospace and defence sectors, the extent to which a CGU has sole source position on platforms where it is able to share in a continuing stream of highly profitable aftermarket revenues, the maturity of the platforms supplied by the CGU and the technological content of the CGUs products.
For the purpose of impairment testing, a conservative approach has been used and where the derived rate is higher than the long-term GDP growth rates for the countries in which the CGU operates UK: 2.4% 2012: 2.3%, US: 2.4% 2012: 2.4%, the latter has been used.
Discount rates applied to future cash flows.
The Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC was used as the foundation for determining the discount rates to be applied.
The WACC was then adjusted to reflect risks specific to the CGU not already reflected in the future cash flows for that CGU.
The discount rates used were as follows: MABS 10.3% 2012: 10.8%, Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. 11.0% 2012: 11.1%, Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. Pacific Scientific HTL 10.8% 2012: 9.6%, Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. 10.7% 2012: 11.2%, and Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. 10.9% 2012: 10.0%.
The discount rates used for Other CGUs ranged between 9.3% to 10.9% 2012: 8.4% to 11.3%.
A sensitivity analysis was carried out for each CGU to determine the extent to which its assumptions would need to change for the calculated recoverable amounts from value in use, to fall below the carrying value of goodwill of the CGU.
Management has concluded that no reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions used in the impairment model would result in a significant impairment charge being recorded in the financial statements.
The principal CGU with the least headroom in percentage terms is MABS.
Other goodwill of 270.6 million 2012: 312.9 million relates to approximately 10 individual CGUs for which sensitivities at the aggregated level are also provided below.
To require an impairment in the Group financial statements, one of the following would be required: MABS Other % % Reduction in estimates of cash flows more than 15 20 Reduction of long-term growth rates more than 80 75 Increase in the discount rate applied to future cash flows more than 15 15 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 97 19.
Development costs and programme participation costs Development Programme costs participation costs m m At 1 January 2012 Cost 230.3 301.8 Accumulated amortisation 44.5 104.3 Net book amount 185.8 197.5 Year ended 31 December 2012 Opening net book amount 185.8 197.5 Exchange rate adjustments 6.2 6.8 Additions 52.2 36.1 Interest capitalised 1.3 Amortisation 11.6 23.2 Net book amount 221.5 203.6 At 31 December 2012 Cost 276.0 326.9 Accumulated amortisation 54.5 123.3 Net book amount 221.5 203.6 Year ended 31 December 2013 Opening net book amount 221.5 203.6 Exchange rate adjustments 3.8 3.3 Additions 70.2 35.7 Disposals 2.0 Interest capitalised 1.5 Amortisation 16.9 25.4 Net book amount 270.5 210.6 At 31 December 2013 Cost 340.7 356.0 Accumulated amortisation 70.2 145.4 Net book amount 270.5 210.6 Charged to net operating costs in respect of development costs and to cost of sales in respect of programme participation costs.
Interest has been capitalised using the average rate payable on the Groups floating rate borrowings of 1.6% 2012: 1.6%.
The net book amount of development costs include 91.1 million 2012: 72.5 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 9.1 years 2012: 9.2 years.
The net book amount of programme participation costs includes 202.7 million 2012: 199.5 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 8.4 years 2012: 9.1 years.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 98 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Amortisation of these items is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures see note 10.
Principally relates to software costs.
Amortisation of 1.4 million 2012: Nil has been charged to exceptional operating items and is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures see note 10.
No interest has been capitalised in the year.
In 2012, interest was capitalised using the average rate payable on the Groups floating rate borrowings of 1.6%.
The net book amount of customer relationships include 350.2 million 2012: 391.5 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 10.0 years 2012: 11.0 years.
The net book amount of technology includes 70.2 million 2012: 78.4 million in respect of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems which have an estimated weighted average remaining life of 10.0 years 2012: 11.0 years.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 99 21.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant, Total buildings equipment and vehicles m m m At 1 January 2012 Cost 164.8 372.2 537.0 Accumulated depreciation 50.4 256.7 307.1 Net book amount 114.4 115.5 229.9 Year ended 31 December 2012 Opening net book amount 114.4 115.5 229.9 Exchange rate adjustments 2.5 3.5 6.0 Business acquired 2.5 1.6 4.1 Additions 6.9 29.7 36.6 Disposals 0.1 0.4 0.5 Depreciation 7.0 24.9 31.9 Net book amount 114.2 118.0 232.2 At 31 December 2012 Cost 169.2 380.7 549.9 Accumulated depreciation 55.0 262.7 317.7 Net book amount 114.2 118.0 232.2 Year ended 31 December 2013 Opening net book amount 114.2 118.0 232.2 Exchange rate adjustments 0.8 1.1 1.9 Business acquired see note 42 0.7 0.7 Businesses disposed see note 43 0.1 4.0 4.1 Additions 21.9 29.6 51.5 Disposals 0.1 0.6 0.7 Depreciation 6.5 25.7 32.2 Net book amount 128.6 116.9 245.5 At 31 December 2013 Cost 185.9 385.0 570.9 Accumulated depreciation 57.3 268.1 325.4 Net book amount 128.6 116.9 245.5 Depreciation of 0.8 million 2012: Nil has been charged to exceptional operating items and is excluded from the Groups underlying profit figures see note 10.
The Groups obligations under finance leases see note 27 are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets, which have a carrying amount of 4.4 million included within land and buildings 2012: 4.5 million and 0.2 million 2012: 1.4 million included within plant, equipment and vehicles.
Inventories 2013 2012 m m Contract costs incurred 10.8 8.8 Less progress billings 3.0 4.2 Net contract costs 7.8 4.6 Raw materials and bought-in components 115.1 107.8 Manufacturing work in progress 127.9 123.9 Finished goods and goods for resale 48.4 54.9 Total 299.2 291.2 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales was 923.7 million 2012: 896.2 million.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense includes 2.3 million 2012: 7.2 million in respect of write-downs of inventory to net realisable value, and has been reduced by 7.4 million 2012: 4.9 million in respect of the reversal of write-downs made in previous years.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 100 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 m m Trade receivables 244.6 240.2 Amounts recoverable on contracts 35.9 14.6 Prepayments and accrued income 12.2 10.4 Other receivables 126.1 137.8 Total 418.8 403.0 Less non-current portion: Other receivables 89.9 98.8 Non-current portion 89.9 98.8 Current portion 328.9 304.2 Other receivables includes 95.9 million 2012: 102.7 million in respect of insurance receivables arising on environmental issues pertaining to businesses sold by Whittaker Corporation prior to its acquisition by the Group see note 31 of which 10.5 million 2012: 10.7 million is shown as current.
Trade receivables are stated after a provision for impairment of 4.1 million 2012: 6.6 million.
Other balances within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The provision for impairment against trade receivables is based on a specific risk assessment taking into account past default experience and is analysed as follows: 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 6.6 7.2 Exchange rate adjustments 0.1 0.2 Businesses disposed 0.5 - Credit to income statement net operating costs 2.1 0.4 At 31 December 4.1 6.6 At 31 December 2013, trade receivables of 61.8 million 2012: 50.0 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Up to 3 months overdue 53.2 42.7 Over 3 months overdue 8.6 7.3 Total 61.8 50.0 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is the fair value of each class of receivable reported above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: 2013 2012 m m Sterling 79.2 69.3 US dollar 289.3 279.8 Euro 41.7 42.1 Other 8.6 11.8 Total 418.8 403.0 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 101 24.
Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 m m Cash at bank and on hand 101.0 94.9 Short-term bank deposits 15.1 10.0 Total 116.1 104.9 Cash and cash equivalents are subject to interest at floating rates.
Trade and other payables current 2013 2012 m m Payments received on account 42.2 42.6 Trade payables 128.2 121.6 Social security and other taxes 12.5 12.0 Accrued expenses 47.8 47.8 Deferred consideration relating to acquired businesses 0.2 Other payables 98.4 127.7 Total 329.1 351.9 26.
Trade and other payables non-current 2013 2012 m m Deferred consideration relating to acquired businesses 2.9 2.9 Other payables 2.3 3.4 Total 5.2 6.3 27.
Obligations under finance leases Minimum Present value lease payments of minimum lease payments 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: In one year or less 3.4 4.3 2.4 3.1 In more than one year but not more than five years 3.8 3.7 1.3 1.1 In more than five years 12.7 13.9 3.8 3.9 Total 19.9 21.9 7.5 8.1 Less: future finance charges 12.4 13.8 Present value of lease obligations 7.5 8.1 Less non-current portion 5.1 5.0 Current portion 2.4 3.1 Obligations under finance leases are principally US dollar denominated.
The weighted average period to maturity is 11.0 years 2012: 11.2 years and the weighted average interest rate is 13.9% 2012: 16.0%.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 102 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Bank and other borrowings 2013 2012 m m Current Bank loans 3.9 12.2 Other loans 3.3 114.8 Total current 7.2 127.0 Non-current Bank loans 245.8 170.1 Other loans 420.2 442.2 Total non-current 666.0 612.3 Total 673.2 739.3 Analysis of bank and other borrowings repayable: In one year or less 7.2 127.0 In more than one year but not more than five years 413.7 343.3 In more than five years 252.3 269.0 Total 673.2 739.3 Bank and other borrowings are stated after deduction of unamortised debt issue costs of 3.9 million 2012: 5.1 million.
Debt issue costs are written off over the period of the facility to which they relate.
The Group has no secured borrowings 2012: 0.1 million secured by specific land and buildings of the Group.
The notes were in two tranches as follows: USD 180.0 million carried an interest rate of 5.36% and were repaid in 2013 and USD 70.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.46% and are due for repayment in 2015.
The Group issued USD 600.0 million of loan notes to private placement investors in 2010.
The notes are in four tranches as follows: USD 200.0 million carry an interest rate of 4.62% and are due for repayment in 2017, USD 125.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.02% and are due for repayment in 2020, USD 150.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.17% and are due for repayment in 2020 and USD 125.0 million carry an interest rate of 5.12% and are due for repayment in 2022.
The Group has a USD 700.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility which matures in 2016 and a USD 400.0 million syndicated revolving credit facility which matures in 2017.
At 31 December 2013, the amounts drawn under revolving credit facilities were 248.6 million 2012: 173.9 million represented by borrowings denominated in US dollars of 97.0 million 2012: 80.1 million, in Euros of 62.3 million 2012: Nil, in Swiss francs of 78.3 million 2012: 93.8 million and in Sterling of 11.0 million 2012: Nil.
Borrowings under the facilities are subject to interest at floating rates.
The committed facilities available at each balance sheet date expire as follows: 2013 2012 Drawn Undrawn Total Drawn Undrawn Total m m m m m m In one year or less 110.7 110.7 In more than one year but not more than five years 411.7 415.4 827.1 340.0 502.8 842.8 In more than five years 241.5 241.5 246.1 246.1 Total 653.2 415.4 1,068.6 696.8 502.8 1,199.6 The Group also has various uncommitted facilities with its relationship banks.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 103 28.
Bank and other borrowings continued The fair value of bank and other borrowings is as follows: 2013 2012 Book Fair Book Fair value value value value m m m m Current 7.2 7.2 127.0 128.7 Non-current 666.0 676.3 612.3 628.4 Total 673.2 683.5 739.3 757.1 After taking account of the financial derivatives that alter the interest and currency basis of the financial liabilities entered into by the Group, the interest rate exposure on gross bank and other borrowings is: As at 31 December 2013: Fixed rate borrowings Weighted Weighted average average interest rate period Floating Fixed Non-interest Total for which bearing rate is fixed m m m m % Years US dollar 262.7 259.6 522.3 4.2 4.3 Swiss franc 79.6 79.6 Euro 62.3 0.3 1.6 64.2 0.7 3.1 Sterling 11.0 11.0 Gross bank and other borrowings 415.6 259.9 1.6 677.1 Less unamortised debt issue costs 3.2 0.7 3.9 Bank and other borrowings 412.4 259.2 1.6 673.2 On 10 June 2013, USD 180.0 million of loan notes issued in 2003 were repaid using floating rate borrowings.
At 31 December 2013, a 5 year floating to fixed interest rate swap has been entered into which has the effect of converting USD 160.0 million of the new floating rate borrowings into fixed rate borrowings.
Fixed rate borrowings As at 31 December 2012: Weighted Weighted average average interest rate period Floating Fixed Non-interest Total for which bearing rate is fixed m m m m % Years US dollar 294.8 276.8 571.6 5.1 5.3 Swiss franc 93.8 93.8 Euro 68.1 0.1 3.3 71.5 5.9 0.5 Sterling 7.5 7.5 Gross bank and other borrowings 464.2 276.9 3.3 744.4 Less unamortised debt issue costs 4.6 0.5 5.1 Bank and other borrowings 459.6 276.4 3.3 739.3 The weighted average period to maturity for non-interest bearing borrowings is 3.5 years 2012: 3.8 years.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 104 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Financial instruments As at 31 December 2013: Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Non-current: Trade and other receivables see note 23 89.9 89.9 89.9 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 33.4 2.1 35.5 35.5 Current: Trade and other receivables 316.7 316.7 316.7 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 11.2 11.2 11.2 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 116.1 116.1 116.1 Financial assets 44.6 2.1 522.7 569.4 569.4 Current: Trade and other payables 316.6 316.6 316.6 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 0.7 0.7 0.7 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 2.4 2.4 2.4 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 7.2 7.2 7.2 Non-current: Trade and other payables see note 26 5.2 5.2 5.2 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 0.1 0.1 0.1 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 5.1 5.1 5.1 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 256.8 409.2 666.0 676.3 Financial liabilities 257.6 745.7 1,003.3 1,013.6 Total 213.0 2.1 522.7 745.7 433.9 444.2 As at 31 December 2012: Held at fair value Held at amortised cost Through Derivatives Loans & Liabilities Total Total profit used for receivables book fair & loss hedging value value m m m m m m Non-current: Trade and other receivables see note 23 98.8 98.8 98.8 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 49.8 49.8 49.8 Current: Trade and other receivables 293.8 293.8 293.8 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 5.0 5.0 5.0 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 104.9 104.9 104.9 Financial assets 54.8 497.5 552.3 552.3 Current: Trade and other payables 339.9 339.9 339.9 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 2.7 1.3 4.0 4.0 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 3.1 3.1 3.1 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 127.0 127.0 128.7 Non-current: Trade and other payables see note 26 6.3 6.3 6.3 Derivative financial instruments see note 30 0.2 0.2 0.2 Obligations under finance leases see note 27 5.0 5.0 5.0 Bank and other borrowings see note 28 274.9 337.4 612.3 628.4 Financial liabilities 277.8 1.3 818.7 1,097.8 1,115.6 Total 223.0 1.3 497.5 818.7 545.5 563.3 Excludes prepayments and accrued income of 12.2 million 2012: 10.4 million see note 23.
Excludes social security and other taxes of 12.5 million 2012: 12.0 million see note 25.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 105 29.
Financial instruments continued Fair value measurement and hierarchy For trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, trade and other payables, obligations under finance leases and the current element of bank and other borrowings, fair values approximate to their book values due to the short maturity periods of these financial instruments.
For trade and other receivables, allowances are made within the book value for credit risk.
Derivative financial instruments measured at fair value, is classified as level 2 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, as they have been determined using significant inputs based on observable market data.
The fair values of foreign currency forward contracts have been derived from forward exchange rates observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual forward rates.
The fair values of interest rate derivatives have been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual interest rates.
The non-current portion of bank and other borrowings measured at fair value, is classified as level 3 in the fair value measurement hierarchy, as it has been determined using significant inputs which are a mixture of those based on observable market data interest rate risk and those not based on observable market data credit risk.
The fair value attributable to interest rate risk has been derived from forward interest rates based on yield curves observable at the balance sheet date together with the contractual interest rates and with the credit risk margin kept constant.
The fair value attributable to credit risk has been derived from quotes from lenders for borrowings of similar amounts and maturity periods.
Similar methods of valuation have been used to derive the fair value of the non-current portion of bank and other borrowings which is held at amortised cost but for which a fair value is provided in the table above.
There were no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy during the year.
Financial liabilities designated as fair value through profit or loss Cumulative changes in the fair value of the non-current portion of bank and other borrowings arising from changes in credit risk are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Fair value at 1 January 10.0 11.2 Credit to income statement 3.0 1.2 Fair value at 31 December 7.0 10.0 The difference between the fair value and contractual amount at maturity of the non-current portion of bank and other borrowings is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Fair value 256.8 274.9 Difference between fair value and contractual amount at maturity 15.3 28.8 Contractual amount payable at maturity 241.5 246.1 Financial liabilities classified as level 3 in the hierarchy Changes in fair value are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Bank and other borrowings at fair value through profit or loss: At 1 January 274.9 283.6 Exchange rate adjustments 4.4 12.5 Gain loss recognised in net operating costs 13.7 3.8 At 31 December 256.8 274.9 The largest movement in credit spread seen in a six month period since inception of the borrowings is 75 basis points.
A 75 basis point movement in the credit spread used as an input in determining the fair value at 31 December 2013, would impact profit before tax by approximately 10.0 million.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Derivative financial instruments As at 31 December 2013: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 96.6 2.1 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 241.5 22.8 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 344.5 12.4 21.8 0.8 Total 682.6 12.4 46.7 0.8 Less non-current portion: Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 96.6 2.1 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 241.5 22.8 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 170.6 1.6 10.6 0.1 Non-current portion 508.7 1.6 35.5 0.1 Current portion 173.9 10.8 11.2 0.7 As at 31 December 2012: Contract or underlying Fair value principal amount Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 246.1 43.1 Interest rate swaps not hedge accounted 98.4 0.2 Cross currency swaps net investment hedges 68.1 1.3 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 233.9 54.8 11.7 2.7 Total 480.0 221.3 54.8 4.2 Less non-current portion: Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 246.1 43.1 Interest rate swaps not hedge accounted 98.4 0.2 Foreign currency forward contracts not hedge accounted 111.5 3.2 6.7 Non-current portion 357.6 101.6 49.8 0.2 Current portion 122.4 119.7 5.0 4.0 Interest rate swaps The total notional principal amount of outstanding interest rate swap contracts at 31 December 2013 is 338.1 million 2012: 344.5 million, of which 60.4 million will expire in 2017, 96.6 million will expire in 2018, 105.6 million will expire in 2020 and 75.5 million will expire in 2022.
The contracts are all denominated in USD.
Of the notional principal amount outstanding, 96.6 million 2012: 98.4 million has the economic effect of converting floating rate US dollar borrowings into fixed rate US dollar borrowings and 241.5 million 2012: 246.1 million has the economic effect of converting fixed rate US dollar borrowings into floating rate US dollar borrowings.
To the extent they meet the criteria for hedge accounting, the floating rate to fixed rate swap contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges and the fixed rate to floating rate swap contracts as fair value hedges.
Cross currency swaps At 31 December 2012, the Group had entered into cross currency swaps which were used to synthetically convert US dollar denominated borrowings into Euro denominated borrowings to hedge against Euro denominated assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The swaps were accounted for as net investment hedges.
Foreign currency forward contracts Although the Group uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against foreign currency exposures, it has decided that the costs of meeting the extensive documentation requirements to be able to apply hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are not merited.
2013 2013 2012 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Fair value: US dollar forward sales USD 17.4 9.2 2.5 Forward sales denominated in other currencies 4.4 0.8 2.5 0.2 Total 21.8 0.8 11.7 2.7 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 107 30.
Derivative financial instruments continued Credit quality of derivative financial assets The credit quality of derivative financial assets is as follows: 2013 2012 m m S&P Moodys rating: AA 7.2 7.7 A 33.8 37.2 BBB 5.7 9.9 Total 46.7 54.8 31.
Provisions Environmental Onerous Warranty Total legal & regulatory contracts costs a b c m m m m At 1 January 2013 163.7 41.1 18.5 223.3 Exchange rate adjustments 2.1 0.4 0.1 1.6 Business acquired see note 42 0.3 0.1 0.4 Businesses disposed see note 43 0.1 0.3 0.4 Additional provision in year cost of sales 21.7 5.7 27.4 Additional provision in year net operating costs 10.5 10.5 Unused amounts reversed cost of sales 1.7 16.6 5.2 23.5 Unused amounts reversed net operating costs 15.9 0.1 16.0 Utilised 14.1 6.2 6.3 26.6 At 31 December 2013 140.7 40.2 12.6 193.5 2013 2012 m m Current 44.3 44.8 Non-current 149.2 178.5 At 31 December 2013 193.5 223.3 a Provision has been made for known exposures arising from environmental remediation, health and safety liabilities, product liability matters, legal proceedings and contractual disputes in a number of businesses.
The Groups operations and facilities are subject to laws and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants and hazardous substances into the ground, air and water as well as the handling, storage and disposal of such materials and other environmental matters.
Failure to comply with its obligations potentially exposes the Group to serious consequences, including fines, other sanctions and limitations on operations.
The Group is involved in the investigation and remediation of current and former sites for which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under US law.
Provision has been made for the expected costs arising from these sites based on information currently available.
A receivable has been established to the extent these costs are recoverable under the Groups environmental insurance policies or from other parties see note 23.
A number of asbestos-related claims have been made against subsidiary companies of the Group.
To date, the amount connected with such claims in any year has not been material and many claims are covered fully or partly by existing insurance and indemnities.
There is a provision for claims which cannot be recovered from insurers.
During the year, an administrative settlement was reached with the US Government following its investigation of alleged violations of US export control laws by certain subsidiaries of the Group.
Under the terms of the 30-month consent agreement, Meggitt-USA, Inc. was assessed a civil penalty of USD 25 million, of which USD 22 million was suspended on condition the Government approves certain past or future remedial costs incurred or to be incurred by the Groups US subsidiaries.
In addition, the Group will be required to implement additional future compliance measures.
No provision is held for the suspended penalty as it is not considered probable that such amounts will be payable.
The provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next ten years and are discounted, where appropriate, using a discount rate appropriate to each provision.
b Onerous contracts include lease obligations and trading contracts.
Provision has been made for the estimated rental shortfall in respect of properties with onerous lease obligations.
These will be utilised over the lease terms typically up to five years and are discounted, where appropriate, using a discount rate appropriate to each provision.
Provision has also been made for estimated losses under certain trading contracts.
As described in note 11, during 2013 the Group has been made aware of an issue relating to the supply from a vendor of nonconforming raw material in one of our businesses.
Provision has been made for the estimated future costs associated with this matter, which include the provision of a number of free of charge replacement parts to customers over a period of several years.
There are a number of uncertainties regarding the ultimate amounts that will be payable, including the extent to which replacement parts will be required.
However, the directors believe, based on the information currently available, that the ultimate outcome will not be significantly different from that recognised.
During 2013, the Group made significant progress in resolving a small number of other contractual matters and accordingly was able to reduce, or release, provisions previously created in respect of these matters.
Onerous trading contract provisions are expected to be substantially utilised over the next ten years and are discounted, where appropriate, using a discount rate appropriate to each provision.
c Provision has been made for product warranty claims.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over the next three years.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 108 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Deferred tax Movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances, are as follows: Retirement Other Total Deferred tax assets benefit obligations m m m At 1 January 2012 101.7 19.1 120.8 Exchange rate adjustments 2.8 0.3 3.1 Reclassifications 11.9 11.9 Charge to income statement Restated see note 14 2.3 7.8 10.1 Charge credit to other comprehensive income Restated see note 14 2.3 1.2 1.1 Charge to equity see note 14 3.1 3.1 At 31 December 2012 94.3 21.0 115.3 Exchange rate adjustments 0.1 0.1 Business acquired see note 42 0.1 0.1 Businesses disposed see note 43 4.6 4.6 Reclassifications 0.6 0.6 Charge to income statement see note 14 4.5 13.4 17.9 Charge to other comprehensive income see note 14 21.6 0.1 21.7 Credit to equity see note 14 3.3 3.3 At 31 December 2013 68.1 16.0 84.1 Accelerated Intangible Total Deferred tax liabilities tax assets depreciation m m m At 1 January 2012 18.8 306.3 325.1 Exchange rate adjustments 0.6 11.4 12.0 Business acquired 0.8 0.8 Credit to income statement see note 14 1.7 7.5 9.2 Credit to other comprehensive income see note 14 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2012 16.5 288.1 304.6 Exchange rate adjustments 0.3 4.0 4.3 Businesses disposed see note 43 6.0 6.0 Reclassifications 0.3 0.3 Charge credit to income statement see note 14 2.8 15.1 12.3 At 31 December 2013 19.3 275.0 294.3 Acquired in business combinations.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes relate to the same tax authority.
During 2013, the Group reassessed the extent to which deferred tax assets could be offset against deferred tax liabilities and determined that an element of the gross deferred tax asset relating to retirement benefit obligations met the criteria for offset.
Accordingly this offset has been reflected in the balance sheet at 31 December 2013.
The Group has not restated the balance sheet at 31 December 2012, as the adjustment would not have had a significant impact on total assets and would have had no impact on net assets, income for the year or other comprehensive income for the year.
The balances after allowing for such offsets are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Deferred tax assets 9.1 100.2 Deferred tax liabilities 219.3 289.5 Net balance at 31 December 210.2 189.3 Deferred tax assets are analysed as follows: 2013 2012 m m To be recovered within one year 0.2 1.5 To be recovered after more than one year 8.9 98.7 Total 9.1 100.2 Deferred tax liabilities are analysed as follows: 2013 2012 m m Falling due within one year 0.3 0.1 Falling due after more than one year 219.0 289.4 Total 219.3 289.5 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 109 32.
Deferred tax continued The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 8.9 million 2012: 10.0 million, the majority of which relates to capital losses in the UK.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items, as it is not regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets not recognised would be recoverable in the event that they reverse and suitable taxable profits are available.
There are no unremitted earnings in foreign subsidiaries that would give rise to a tax liability in the event of those subsidiaries remitting their earnings.
Retirement benefit obligations Pension schemes The Group operates a number of pension schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The nature of each scheme which has a significant impact on the financial statements is as follows: In the UK, the Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme which is closed to new members but open to future accrual for existing members: In the US, the Group operates five defined benefit schemes, all of which are closed to new members.
With two exceptions, these schemes are open to future accrual for existing members.
The schemes are a mixture of funded and unfunded schemes: and In Switzerland, the Group operates a funded defined benefit scheme which is open to new members and to future accrual.
The UK and US schemes provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The benefits provided depend on a members length of service.
For the majority of schemes, the benefits are dependent on salary at retirement or average salary over employment in the final years leading up to retirement.
In the US, one scheme provides a fixed benefit for each year of service.
The Swiss scheme has many of the characteristics of a defined contribution scheme but provides for certain minimum benefits to be guaranteed to members.
For all funded schemes, benefit payments are made from funds administered by third parties unrelated to the Group.
The assets of such schemes are held in trust funds, or their equivalent, separate from the Groups finances.
Scheme assets held in trusts, or their equivalent, are governed by local regulations and practice in each country, as is the nature of the relationship between the Group and the trustees or equivalent and their composition.
For all unfunded schemes, benefit payments are made by the Group as the obligations fall due.
The Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes under which the Group has no further obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Healthcare schemes The Group has two principal other post-retirement benefit schemes providing medical and life assurance benefits to certain employees, and former employees, of Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Corporation and Meggitt Rockmart, Inc.
Amounts recognised in the income statement 2013 2012 Restated m m Total charge in respect of defined contribution pension schemes 19.2 18.3 Defined benefit pension schemes: Service cost 12.7 12.3 Past service cost 0.7 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 9.5 11.5 Total charge in respect of defined benefit pension schemes 22.9 23.8 Healthcare schemes: Service cost 1.5 1.0 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations 2.0 2.5 Total charge in respect of healthcare schemes 3.5 3.5 Total charge 45.6 45.6 Of the total charge, 34.1 million 2012: 31.6 million has been charged to operating profit see note 9, of which 18.9 million 2012: 18.1 million has been included in cost of sales and 15.2 million 2012: 13.5 million in net operating costs.
The remaining 11.5 million 2012: 14.0 million as restated is included in finance costs see note 13.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Amounts recognised in the balance sheet 2013 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 449.9 238.5 688.4 Present value of scheme liabilities 573.4 304.8 48.3 926.5 Retirement benefit obligations 123.5 66.3 48.3 238.1 2012 UK Overseas Overseas Total pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 412.8 221.9 634.7 Present value of scheme liabilities 546.4 329.5 58.5 934.4 Retirement benefit obligations 133.6 107.6 58.5 299.7 Of the total deficit of 238.1 million 2012: 299.7 million, 61.0 million 2012: 72.5 million is in respect of unfunded schemes.
The schemes have no investments in any assets of the Group.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 111 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Changes in the fair value of scheme assets 2013 2012 Restated m m At 1 January 634.7 584.9 Exchange rate adjustments 3.1 8.4 Interest income 24.9 24.7 Contributions Group 41.6 38.3 Contributions Members 3.6 3.6 Benefits paid 37.5 35.1 Remeasurement gain: Return on schemes assets excluding amounts included in interest income 25.5 28.9 Administrative expenses borne directly by the schemes 1.3 2.2 At 31 December 688.4 634.7 In 2013, certain administrative expenses previously paid by the schemes are now being paid directly by the Group.
All administrative expenses, whether paid directly by the Group or borne by the schemes, are charged to net operating costs.
Financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities 2013 2012 UK Overseas Overseas UK Overseas Overseas pension pension healthcare pension pension healthcare scheme schemes schemes scheme schemes schemes Discount rate 4.60% 4.55% 4.55% 4.50% 3.80% 3.80% Inflation rate 3.40% N A N A 3.00% N A N A Increases to deferred benefits during deferment 2.60% N A N A 2.50% N A N A Increases to pensions in payment 3.30% N A N A 3.00% N A N A Salary increases 4.40% 4.76% N A 4.00% 4.00% N A To the extent not overridden by specific scheme rules.
In determining the fair value of scheme liabilities, the Group uses mortality assumptions which are based on published mortality tables adjusted to reflect the characteristics of the scheme populations.
The Groups mortality assumptions in the UK are based on recent mortality investigations of Self Administered Pension Schemes adjusted to reflect the profile of the membership of the Plan, which include the results of a postcode analysis of members used to support the 2012 triennial UK actuarial valuation.
Allowance has been made for rates of mortality to continue to fall at the rate of 1.25% per annum.
In the US, mortality assumptions are based on the RP2000 IRS RPA tables.
2013 2012 UK Overseas UK Overseas scheme schemes scheme schemes Years Years Years Years Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 male 23.5-25.2 19.3 23.4-25.1 19.2 Member age 45 life expectancy at age 65 female 26.3-27.9 21.1 26.2-27.9 21.0 Member age 65 current life expectancy male 21.8-23.6 19.3 21.7-23.5 19.2 Member age 65 current life expectancy female 24.3-26.0 21.1 24.2-25.9 21.0 Details on the sensitivity of scheme liabilities to changes in assumptions are provided below: The impact of a 10 basis point reduction in discount rate would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2013 to increase by approximately 14.4 million: The impact of a 10 basis point increase in inflation and salary inflation rates would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2013 to increase by approximately 10.7 million: The impact of assuming every scheme member were to live for an additional year would cause scheme liabilities at 31 December 2013 to increase by approximately 22.7 million.
The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while keeping all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions, the same method of calculating the defined benefit obligation has been used as when calculating the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous year.
In the US, regulatory bodies are currently consulting on a new set of mortality tables which reflect recently observed longevity experience.
New mortality tables are expected to be finalised in the next two years and will, once adopted, likely provide for increased longevity and accordingly higher retirement benefit scheme liabilities for most US schemes.
It is not yet possible to quantify the impact any changes may have on our schemes retirement benefit liabilities.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 112 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Changes in the present value of retirement benefit obligations 2013 2012 Restated m m At 1 January 299.7 319.9 Exchange rate adjustments 0.9 7.4 Service cost 14.2 13.3 Past service cost 0.7 Net interest expense on retirement benefit obligations see note 13 11.5 14.0 Contributions Group 41.6 38.3 Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations: Gain from change in demographic assumptions 6.9 6.2 Gain loss from change in financial assumptions 14.4 31.1 Return on schemes assets excluding amounts included in interest income 25.5 28.9 Total remeasurement gain 46.8 4.0 Administrative expenses borne directly by the schemes 1.3 2.2 At 31 December 238.1 299.7 Risks The Group is exposed to a number of risks arising from operating its defined benefit pension and healthcare schemes, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
To the extent the actual return on schemes assets is below this yield, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated by funded schemes investing in matching corporate bonds, such that changes in asset values are offset by similar changes in the value of scheme liabilities.
However, the Group also invests in other asset types such as equities, property, commodities, derivatives and hedge funds where movements in asset values may be uncorrelated to movements in the yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The Group believes that, due to the long-term nature of its scheme liabilities, it is appropriate to invest in assets which are expected to out-perform corporate bonds over this timeframe.
Scheme assets are well diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets.
The Group actively monitors how the duration and expected yield of scheme assets are matching the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations.
For each funded scheme, there is a glide-path in place which provides, to the extent the funding position improves, for asset volatility to be reduced by increased investment in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities that match the benefit payments as they fall due.
Interest rate risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, liabilities are discounted using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds.
If these yields fall, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is partly mitigated through the funded schemes investing in matching assets as described above.
Inflation rate risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, estimates are made as to levels of salary inflation, inflation increases that will apply to deferred benefits during deferment and pensions in payment, and healthcare cost inflation.
To the extent actual inflation exceeds these estimates, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
Salary inflation risk is partly mitigated in both the UK and US schemes by linking benefits in respect of future service to average salaries over a period of employment rather than final salary at retirement.
Benefits in respect of certain periods of past service are still linked to final salary at retirement.
In the UK, inflation risk in respect of deferred benefits and pensions in payment is mitigated by caps on the levels of inflation under the scheme rules.
In the US and Switzerland, the schemes provide for no inflation to be applied to benefits in deferment or retirement.
Exposure to inflation on US healthcare costs has been mitigated by freezing Group contributions to medical costs at 2011 cost levels.
Longevity risk In determining the present value of schemes defined benefit obligations, assumptions are made as to the life expectancy of members during employment and in retirement.
To the extent life expectancy exceeds this estimate, the retirement benefit obligations recognised in the consolidated financial statements would increase.
This risk is more significant in the UK plan, where inflationary increases result in higher sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
The Group currently does not use derivatives, such as longevity swaps, to mitigate this risk.
The Group has not changed the processes used to manage defined benefit scheme risks during the year.
Other information In the UK, the last triennial valuation was in 2012 following which the Group agreed with the UK trustees to progressively increase deficit reduction payments, with the aim being to eliminate the deficit by 2024.
In the US, deficit reduction levels are driven by regulations and provide for deficits to be eliminated over periods up to 15 years.
There is no significant deficit in the Swiss scheme.
The estimated Group contributions expected to be paid to the schemes during 2014 are 46.4 million.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 113 33.
Retirement benefit obligations continued The weighted average duration of the schemes defined benefit obligation is 17.1 years.
The expected maturity of undiscounted pension and healthcare benefits at 31 December 2013 is as follows: Less than Between Between Over a year 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Pension schemes 32.6 33.4 104.3 1,631.0 1,801.3 Healthcare schemes 3.4 3.4 10.7 67.4 84.9 Total 36.0 36.8 115.0 1,698.4 1,886.2 34.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards is 4.2 years 2012: 3.6 years.
MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
All the above share appreciation rights, which were granted for nil consideration, may in certain circumstances, be exercised earlier than the dates given.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding awards is 7.1 years 2012: 6.9 years.
During the year, a number of cash-settled share appreciation rights were converted into equity-settled share appreciation rights see note 35.
Share-based payment The Group operates a number of share schemes for the benefit of its employees.
The total expense recorded in the income statement in respect of such schemes was 11.9 million 2012: 12.3 million see note 9.
The nature of each scheme which has a significant impact on the expense recorded in the income statement is set out below.
Meggitt 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme and Meggitt Executive Share Option Scheme 2005 Equity-settled Share awards are granted to certain senior executives at an award price equal to the market price of the shares on the day before the grant is made.
The awards are generally exercisable at the earliest three years after the grant is made.
Awards can only be exercised if the Group meets an earnings per share performance condition.
The Group has no obligation, legal or constructive, to settle the awards in cash.
Awards under Part A of the schemes provide for the executive on exercise to be entitled, on payment of the award price, to the number of shares under award.
Awards under Part B of the schemes are in the form of equity-settled share appreciation rights SARs and provide for the executive on exercise to be entitled to receive equity equivalent to the gain in value between the award price and the market price on the date of exercise.
During the year, 3.4 million awards 2012: Nil previously issued as cash-settled, were modified to equity-settled.
Of these awards, 0.6 million had not fully vested and were remeasured to fair value at the date they were modified.
The fair value derived, is being expensed to the income statement over the remaining vesting period.
An expense of 2.5 million 2012: 3.1 million was recorded in the year in respect of all equity-settled awards.
Movements in the number of outstanding awards and their related weighted average award prices are as follows: 2013 2013 2012 2012 Average Number of Average Number of award awards award awards price outstanding price outstanding Pence m Pence m At 1 January 304.35 24.5 270.11 21.5 Granted 526.58 4.1 397.20 5.5 Lapsed 365.26 0.5 340.77 0.2 Modified from cash-settled 262.04 3.4 N A - Exercised 262.42 10.4 203.50 2.3 At 31 December 360.49 21.1 304.35 24.5 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 115 35.
Share-based payment continued At 31 December 2013, of the total number of awards outstanding, 7.2 million are exercisable at an average exercise price of 245.50 pence 2012: 9.9 million at an average exercise price of 239.54 pence.
The fair values of the awards made in the year were determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The significant assumptions used in the model and the fair values determined were: 2013 2013 2012 Award in Modification in Award in September April April Share price at date of grant modification pence 526.50 468.60 397.20 Award price pence 526.50 351.70 397.20 Vesting period years 3.0 1.0 3.0 Expected volatility 35% 27% 38% Expected life of award years 5.0 3.0 5.0 Risk free rate 1.56% 0.73% 1.07% Expected dividend yield 3.24% 2.65% 3.31% Fair value at date of award pence 121.37 120.54 98.25 Expected volatility figures are based on volatility over the last five years measured using a statistical analysis of daily share prices.
Awards may be exercised at any point between the vesting date and ten years after the date the award was made.
Cash-settled Under the terms of the Meggitt Executive Share Option Scheme 2005, the Group may grant cash-settled SARs to certain overseas employees.
The Group is required to pay the intrinsic value of the SARs to the employee at the date of exercise.
As referred to above, during the year 3.4 million awards 2012: Nil were modified from cash-settled to equity-settled.
These awards were remeasured to fair value immediately prior to the date of modification and a corresponding expense recorded in the income statement.
The liability of 5.9 million was then reclassified to equity on the date the awards were modified.
An expense of 3.1 million 2012: 2.5 million was recorded in the year in respect of all cash-settled awards.
The Group has recorded a liability at the balance sheet date of 0.7 million 2012: 4.9 million.
The total intrinsic value at the balance sheet date was 0.9 million 2012: 5.5 million.
Movements in the number of outstanding awards and their related weighted average award prices are as follows: 2013 2013 2012 2012 Average Number of Average Number of award awards award awards price outstanding price outstanding Pence m Pence m At 1 January 267.74 4.8 252.59 6.8 Granted 526.50 0.1 397.20 0.2 Lapsed 385.07 0.1 340.43 0.1 Modified to equity-settled 262.04 3.4 N A - Exercised 242.59 0.8 232.00 2.1 At 31 December 354.05 0.6 267.74 4.8 At 31 December 2013, of the total number of awards outstanding, 0.2 million are exercisable at an average exercise price of 205.24 pence 2012: 3.2 million at an average exercise price of 235.26 pence.
The fair value of the awards made in the year were determined, at the grant date, using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and reflect the same assumptions used for equity-settled awards as disclosed above.
As a cash-settled award, the fair value of outstanding awards is remeasured at each balance sheet date.
Meggitt Equity Participation Plan 2005 Under the Meggitt Equity Participation Plan 2005, an annual award of shares may be made to certain senior executives.
For awards made in 2013 and 2012, the number of shares, if any that an executive ultimately receives, depends on three performance conditions: An earnings per share EPS measure 50% of the award : A cash flow measure 25% of the award : and Total Shareholder Return TSR achieved by the Group as measured against a comparator group selected by the Remuneration Committee 25% of the award.
Each of the conditions is measured over a three year performance period.
For awards made in 2009 and 2010, 50% of the award was based on an EPS measure and 50% on a TSR condition.
An expense of 5.4 million 2012: 5.9 million was recorded in the year.
Movements in the number of outstanding shares that may potentially be released to employees are as follows: 2013 2012 Number of Number of shares shares under award under award outstanding outstanding m m At 1 January 7.8 8.3 Awarded 2.1 2.4 Lapsed 0.6 1.3 Released to employees 1.6 1.6 At 31 December 7.7 7.8 MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Share-based payment continued At 31 December 2013, 1.5 million of the shares under award are eligible for release 2012: 1.1 million.
The fair value of the awards made in 2013, subject to the EPS and cash flow performance conditions, was 478.00 pence 2012: 392.97 pence.
The fair value of the awards made in 2013, which were subject to the TSR performance condition, was determined using a Monte Carlo model.
The significant assumptions used in the model and the fair values determined, in respect of the principal awards made in the year, were: 2013 2012 Award in Award in March August Share price at date of grant pence 478.00 392.97 Vesting period years 3.0 3.0 Expected volatility 26% 29% Expected life of award years 3.0 3.0 Risk free rate 0.26% 0.26% Fair value at date of award pence 248.00 240.00 36.
Own shares Own shares represents shares in the Company that are held by an independently managed Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust the trust formed to purchase shares to be used to meet certain of the Companys future obligations in respect of employee share schemes as described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 47 to 67.
At 31 December 2013, the trust held no ordinary shares 2012: 1,708 shares.
Contingent liabilities The Company has given guarantees in respect of credit facilities for certain of its subsidiaries, some property leases, other leasing arrangements and the performance by some current and former subsidiaries of certain contracts.
Also, there are similar guarantees given by certain other Group companies.
The directors do not believe that the effect of giving these guarantees will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, parties to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the ordinary course of business.
The directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings, actions and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
Contractual commitments Capital commitments 2013 2012 m m Contracted for but not incurred: Intangible assets 1.4 1.1 Property, plant and equipment 7.5 8.4 Total 8.9 9.5 Operating lease commitments The Group leases various factories, warehouses and offices under non-cancellable operating leases.
These leases have various lease periods, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Additionally the Group leases various items of plant and machinery under both cancellable and noncancellable operating leases.
Expenditure on operating leases is charged to the income statement as incurred and is disclosed in note 7.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are as follows: 2013 2012 m m In one year or less 13.0 13.7 In more than one year but not more than five years 38.2 43.6 In more than five years 25.7 25.6 Total 76.9 82.9 Other financial commitments The Group enters into long-term arrangements with Aircraft and Original Equipment Manufacturers to design, develop and supply products to them for the life of the aircraft.
This represents a significant long-term financial commitment for the Group and requires the consideration of a number of uncertainties including the feasibility of the product and the ultimate commercial viability over a period which can extend over 40 years.
The directors are satisfied that, at this time, there are no significant contingent liabilities arising from these commitments.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 117 39.
Cash inflow from operations 2013 2012 Restated m m Profit for the year 232.3 235.5 Adjustments for: Finance income see note 12 0.3 2.0 Finance costs see note 13 31.2 42.1 Tax see note 14 37.1 45.8 Depreciation see note 21 32.2 31.9 Amortisation see notes 19 and 20 126.4 122.8 Gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.1 0.3 Gain on disposal of businesses see note 11 9.0 3.2 Financial instruments see note 10 6.1 23.4 Retirement benefit obligation deficit payments 27.4 25.0 Share-based payment expense see note 35 11.9 12.3 Changes in working capital: Inventories 16.4 30.5 Trade and other receivables 24.6 14.7 Trade and other payables 13.1 6.7 Provisions 27.4 33.9 Cash inflow from operations 345.7 394.1 40.
Movements in net debt 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 642.5 788.4 Free cash inflow 110.4 182.4 Businesses acquired see note 42 26.5 8.4 Business acquisition expenses see note 11 0.4 1.4 Businesses disposed see note 43 53.3 15.9 Business disposal expenses see note 11 0.5 0.9 Dividends paid to Companys shareholders see note 16 75.6 71.8 Issue of equity share capital see note 34 2.5 0.9 Net cash generated inflow 63.2 116.7 Debt acquired with businesses see note 42 0.3 0.4 Exchange rate adjustments 2.7 33.9 Other non-cash movements 12.3 4.3 At 31 December 564.6 642.5 Analysed as: 2013 2012 m m Bank and other borrowings current see note 28 7.2 127.0 Bank and other borrowings non-current see note 28 666.0 612.3 Obligations under finance leases current see note 27 2.4 3.1 Obligations under finance leases non-current see note 27 5.1 5.0 Cash and cash equivalents see note 24 116.1 104.9 Total 564.6 642.5 MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 41.
Major non-cash transactions During the year, Meggitt PLC issued 3.8 million shares worth 20.0 million in respect of scrip dividends 2012: 3.3 million shares worth 13.2 million see notes 16 and 34.
42. Business combinations On 27 August 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the voting rights of Piezotech, LLC Piezotech.
Piezotechs high-end performance piezo-ceramic technology for extreme temperature gas turbine sensors and its position in emerging energy and medical markets strengthen two strands of the Groups sensing business.
The assets and liabilities of Piezotech at the date of acquisition, including the goodwill arising on consolidation, were as follows: Fair value m Goodwill see note 18 9.0 Other intangible assets see note 20 15.8 Property, plant and equipment see note 21 0.7 Inventories 1.0 Trade and other receivables - current 1.4 Trade and other payables - current 0.6 Obligations under finance leases - current 0.1 Provisions - current see note 31 0.4 Obligations under finance leases - non-current 0.2 Deferred tax liabilities see note 32 0.1 Net assets 26.5 Consideration satisfied in cash 26.5 Total consideration payable 26.5 Goodwill arising on consolidation is based on preliminary estimates of fair values which will be finalised in 2014.
Goodwill is attributable to the profitability of the acquired business and expected future synergies arising following the acquisition.
Costs related to the acquisition were 0.5 million.
These costs have been treated as an exceptional operating item see note 11.
The impact of the acquired business on the results of the Group for the period since acquisition is not significant and would not have been significant had it been acquired on 1 January 2013.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 119 43. Business disposals On 23 May 2013, the Group disposed of 100% of the ordinary shares of Meggitt Addison, Inc. Addison for a total consideration of 26.0 million.
Addison was engaged in vapour cycle air conditioning systems providing cooling, heating and ventilation for fixed wing light aircraft.
On 20 December 2013, the Group disposed of 100% of the ordinary shares of the Sunbank Family of Companies LLC Sunbank for a total consideration of 28.3 million.
Sunbank supplied connector accessories, backshells, and conduit systems for aerospace and industrial markets.
These businesses were no longer considered core to the Groups operations.
The impact of the disposals on the Groups results and cash flows for the year was not significant.
The net assets of the businesses at the dates of disposal were as follows: Addison Sunbank Total m m m Goodwill see note 18 8.0 18.5 26.5 Other intangible assets see note 20 5.6 5.6 11.2 Property, plant and equipment see note 21 0.3 3.8 4.1 Deferred tax assets see note 32 - 2.3 2.3 Inventories 2.0 4.3 6.3 Trade and other receivables - current 2.2 3.1 5.3 Cash and cash equivalents 0.2 1.2 1.4 Trade and other payables - current 1.2 4.0 5.2 Provisions - current see note 31 0.1 0.3 0.4 Deferred tax liabilities see note 32 0.9 - 0.9 Net assets 16.1 34.5 50.6 Currency translation gain transferred from equity 5.0 0.3 5.3 Gain loss on disposal see note 11 14.9 5.9 9.0 Total consideration 26.0 28.3 54.3 Satisfied by: Proceeds received from disposal of businesses 26.4 28.3 54.7 Business disposal expenses paid see note 11 0.3 0.2 0.5 Trade and other receivables - contingent consideration - 0.8 0.8 Trade and other payables - other 0.1 0.6 0.7 Total consideration 26.0 28.3 54.3 Net cash inflow arising on disposal: Proceeds received from disposal of businesses 26.4 28.3 54.7 Less: cash and cash equivalents disposed of 0.2 1.2 1.4 Businesses disposed 26.2 27.1 53.3 Less business disposal expenses paid 0.3 0.2 0.5 Total cash inflow 25.9 26.9 52.8 MEGGITT PLC RE PORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 44.
Restatement of prior year comparatives IAS 19 Revised 2011, Employee benefits makes changes to the recognition and measurement of certain items of defined benefit pension expense.
Scheme administration expenses borne directly by defined benefit schemes are now recorded within net operating costs and not, as previously accounted for, as a reduction in the expected return on scheme assets.
The expected return on scheme assets is now calculated using the same rate used to discount scheme liabilities and no longer includes any allowance for equity-like out-performance or deduction for scheme administration expenses.
The adverse impact on net operating costs and net finance costs of these changes is offset by an equal reduction in remeasurement losses.
As the Group has always recognised remeasurement gains and losses immediately there has been no impact on the value at which retirement benefit obligations are recorded in the balance sheet.
As the revised net pension finance cost calculated under IAS 19 Revised 2011, Employee benefits is a non-cash, non-trading item, the Board has in 2013, as previously announced, excluded it from the underlying profit measures as defined in note 10 it uses to monitor and measure the underlying performance of the Group.
The prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
The impact of these changes is set out below: 2013 2012 Under Change As Under Change As prior year in policy reported prior year in policy restated policy policy m m m m m m Revenue 1,637.3 1,637.3 1,605.8 1,605.8 Cost of sales 981.1 981.1 929.1 929.1 Gross profit 656.2 656.2 676.7 676.7 Net operating costs 354.2 1.7 355.9 353.1 2.2 355.3 Operating profit 302.0 1.7 300.3 323.6 2.2 321.4 Finance income 33.2 32.9 0.3 35.4 33.4 2.0 Finance costs 56.1 24.9 31.2 66.9 24.8 42.1 Net finance costs 22.9 8.0 30.9 31.5 8.6 40.1 Profit before tax 279.1 9.7 269.4 292.1 10.8 281.3 Tax 39.7 2.6 37.1 48.8 3.0 45.8 Profit for the year attributable to equity owners of the Company 239.4 7.1 232.3 243.3 7.8 235.5 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent periods: Remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations 37.1 9.7 46.8 6.8 10.8 4.0 Tax effect 19.0 2.6 21.6 0.7 3.0 2.3 Other items affecting other comprehensive income 35.2 35.2 59.9 59.9 Other comprehensive income for the year 17.1 7.1 10.0 66.0 7.8 58.2 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity owners of the Company 222.3 222.3 177.3 177.3 Earnings per share pence Basic 30.3 0.9 29.4 31.1 1.0 30.1 Diluted 29.8 0.9 28.9 30.7 1.0 29.7 Underlying operating profit 398.9 1.7 397.2 394.3 2.2 392.1 Underlying profit before tax 376.0 1.8 377.8 362.8 3.2 366.0 Underlying basic earnings per share pence 37.3 0.2 37.5 36.2 0.3 36.5 Underlying diluted earnings per share pence 36.8 0.1 36.9 35.7 0.3 36.0 MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 121 45.
Group companies The following information is not a complete listing of all subsidiary companies at 31 December 2013 and relates only to those subsidiaries principally affecting the profits or assets of the Group.
United Kingdom Meggitt Aerospace Limited Meggitt Finance Limited Meggitt Defence Systems Limited Meggitt UK Limited Continental Europe Artus SAS France Piher Sensors & Controls SA Spain Meggitt SA Switzerland North America Linear Motion LLC Meggitt North Hollywood, Inc. Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Corporation Meggitt Orange County, Inc. Meggitt Aircraft Braking Systems Kentucky Corporation Meggitt Rockmart, Inc. Meggitt Defense Systems, Inc. NASCO Aircraft Brake, Inc. Meggitt GP, Inc. OECO, LLC Meggitt Oregon, Inc. Pacific Scientific Company Meggitt Safety Systems, Inc. Piezotech, LLC Meggitt Training Systems, Inc. Securaplane Technologies, Inc. Rest of World Meggitt Aerospace Asia Pacific Pte Limited Singapore Meggitt Brasil Solueos fide Engenharia Limited Brazil i United Kingdom companies listed above are incorporated and registered in England and Wales.
North American companies listed above are incorporated and registered in the United States of America.
Other companies listed above are incorporated in the country named.
ii The ordinary shares of all subsidiaries were 100% owned by Meggitt PLC, either directly or indirectly, at 31 December 2013. iii All companies listed above are included in the consolidation.
iv Companies marked are management companies.
Otherwise all companies are operating companies engaged in the Groups principal activities as described in note 1.
A full list of subsidiary companies will be annexed to the next annual return to the Registrar of Companies.
