Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 85 Annual Report 2013 Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and financial statements in accordance with applicable law records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys andregulations.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of are required to prepare the Group financial statements in the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom of the corporate and financial information included on the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Directors responsibility statement Company for that period.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: In preparing the parent company financial statements, the the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Directors are required to: relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Company and the undertakings included in the consistently: consolidation taken as a whole: make judgements and accounting estimates that are the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development reasonable and prudent: and performance of the business and the position of the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal explained in the financial statements: and risks and uncertainties that they face: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the continue in business.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: By order of the Board properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Geoffrey Martin Simon Peckham specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users Group Finance Director Chief Executive to understand the impact of particular transactions, other 5March 2014 5March 2014 events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Melrose Industries PLC 86 Annual Report 2013 Financials Financial contents Consolidated statements Company statements Independent auditors report 87 Company Balance Sheet for Melrose Industries PLC 141 Consolidated Income Statement 92 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 93 Notes to the Company Balance Sheet Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 94 Note Consolidated Balance Sheet 95 1.
Significant accounting policies 142 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 96 2.
Investment in subsidiaries 143 Notes to the financial statements 4.
Summary of significant accounting policies 98 7.
Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 144 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources 8.
Related party transactions 145 of estimation uncertainty 106 9.
Goodwill and other intangible assets 118 13.
Financial instruments and risk management 133 25.
