Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 97 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements 1.
Corporate information Melrose Industries PLC the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 152.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5 and in the Business review sections on pages 22 to 31.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013 were authorised in accordance with a resolution of the Directors of Melrose Industries PLC on 5 March 2014.
These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company is based.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2012 in these financial statements has been restated to include the results and cash flows of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations and exclude them from continuing operations.
Truth and Harris were previously disclosed within the Other Industrial segment, Marelli within the Energy segment and Crosby and Acco within the Lifting segment.
The comparative information has also been restated in accordance with the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits.
The Balance Sheet at 31 December 2012 has been restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting of Elster.
1.1 New Standards and Interpretations affecting amounts, presentation or disclosure reported in the current period In the current financial year, the Group has adopted the amendments to IAS 1 amended : Presentation of items of other comprehensive income, IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits and IFRS 13: Fair value measurement.
The amendments to IAS 1 require items of other comprehensive income to be grouped by those items that may be reclassified subsequently to the Income Statement and those that will not be reclassified to the Income Statement, together with their associated income tax.
The amendments have been applied retrospectively, and hence the presentation of items of comprehensive income have been restated to reflect the change.
The effect of these changes is evident from the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits impacts the measurement of the various components representing movements in the defined benefit pension obligation and associated disclosures but not the total obligation itself.
The impact on the current year in adopting the revised standard has been to increase headline operating expenses by 2.8 million and finance costs by 5.1 million whilst reducing taxation expense by 2.1 million and increasing other comprehensive income by 5.8 million.
In accordance with IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits, the comparative periods have been restated as if the new standard had been effective from 1 January 2012.
The impact has been to increase headline operating expenses in 2012 by 2.1 million, increase finance costs in 2012 by 2.7 million whilst reducing taxation expense by 1.4 million and increasing other comprehensive income in 2012 by 3.4 million.
The adoption of IFRS 13: Fair value measurement has introduced new disclosures, as set out in note 24.
The Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 Cycle incorporated necessary, but non-urgent, amendments to five International Financial Reporting Standards.
The amendments most relevant to the Group are: IAS 1: Presentation of financial statements The amendments clarify the requirement for additional comparative information and have not had a material impact on these financial statements.
IAS 34: Interim financial reporting The amendments clarify the disclosure requirements for segment information and fair value of financial instruments.
The interim financial statements as at 30 June 2013 reflected these amendments, where applicable.
The remaining three amendments in the Improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 Cycle do not currently impact these financialstatements.
1.2 New Standards and Interpretations adopted with no significant effect on financial statements The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements, but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements.
Melrose Industries PLC 98 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Corporate information continued Early adoption of IAS 36 amended : Impairment of assets The amendment to IAS 36 removes a requirement to disclose the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit whether or not an impairment loss has been recognised in respect of that unit in the current period.
The amendment instead requires the disclosure of the determined recoverable amount only where an impairment loss has been recognised during the reporting period.
The Group has elected to early adopt this amendment for the current year.
IFRS 7 amended : Disclosures Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 1.3 New Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations are in issue but not yet effective and in some cases have not been adopted by the EU : IAS 32 amended : Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities IAS 27 revised : Separate financial statements IAS 28 revised : Investments in associates and joint ventures IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 amended : Investment entities IFRS 9: Financial instruments IFRS 10: Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11: Joint arrangements IFRS 12: Disclosure of interest in other entities Transition guidance Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 IAS 36 amended : Recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets IAS 39 amended : Novation of derivatives and continuation of hedge accounting IAS 19 amended : Employee contributions Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2010-12 Cycle Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2011-13 Cycle The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments which are recognised at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
The principal accounting policies adopted are consistent with the prior year and are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements include the results of the parent undertaking and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of businesses acquired during the period are included from the effective date of acquisition and for those sold during the period to the effective date of disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained on page 47 of the Finance Directorsreview.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 99 Annual Report 2013 Financials Business combinations and goodwill The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the fair value of assets transferred, the liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange of control and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Costs directly attributable to business combinations are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement as incurred.
The acquired identifiable assets and liabilities are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition except those where specific guidance is provided by IFRSs.
Non-current assets and directly attributable liabilities that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5: Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Also, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12: Income taxes, liabilities and assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits and liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payments awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2: Share-based payment.
Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts where appropriate.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum period of one year.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may beimpaired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units acquired.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
When there is a disposal of a cash-generating unit, goodwill relating to the operation disposed of is taken into account in determining the gain or loss on disposal of that operation.
The amount of goodwill allocated to a partial disposal is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the operation retained.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity which is not a subsidiary undertaking but the interest of the Group is that of a partner in a business over which the Group exercises joint control.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales related taxes.
Revenue is reduced for estimated customer returns, rebates and other similar allowances.
The nature of agreements into which the Group enters meansthat: the contracts usually contain discrete elements, each of which transfers risks and rewards to the customer.
Where such discrete elements are present, revenue is recognised on each element in accordance with the policy on the sale of goods.
the service element of the contract is usually insignificant in relation to the total contract value and is often provided on a shortterm or one-off basis.
Where this is the case, revenue is recognised when the service is complete.
aftermarket activities generally relate to the provision of spare parts, repairs and the rebuild of equipment.
Revenue on the provision of parts is recognised in accordance with the policy on the sale of goods and revenue for repairs and rebuild is recognised upon completion of the activity.
Melrose Industries PLC 100 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued The significant majority of the Groups revenue is recognised on a sale of goods basis.
The specific methods used to recognise the different forms of revenue earned by the Group are as follows: Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when all of the following conditions are satisfied: the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods: the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale.
Sales made under internationally accepted trade terms are recognised as revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer risks as stipulated in those terms.
Sales made outside of such terms are generally recognised on delivery to the customer.
No revenue is recognised where recovery of the consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding associated costs or the possible return of goods.
Provision of services As noted above, because revenue from the rendering of services is usually insignificant in relation to the total contract value and is generally provided on a short-term or one-off basis, revenue is usually recognised when the service is complete.
Construction contracts As noted above, customer contracts usually contain discrete elements separately transferring risks and rewards to the customer.
Where such discrete elements are present, revenue is recognised on each element in accordance with the policy on the sale ofgoods.
Where such discrete elements are not in place, revenue from significant contracts is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference to the specific contract terms and the costs incurred on the contract at the Balance Sheet date in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract.
This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in revenue from construction contracts when the amount can be measured reliably and its receipt is considered probable.
Variations are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged liability for the variation in principle.
Claims are included when negotiations with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim.
Incentive payments are included when a contract is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the performance standards triggering the incentive will be achieved.
Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
Where this is not the case contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred where it is probable they will be recovered.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Interest income Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Exceptional costs income Exceptional costs income are those costs income of a significant and non-recurring nature or those associated with significant restructuring programmes, acquisitions or disposals, which warrant separate additional disclosure in the financial statements in order to fully understand the underlying performance of the Group.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after exceptional operating costs and income, intangible asset amortisation and the Groups share of results of joint ventures, but before finance income and finance costs.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 101 Annual Report 2013 Financials Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, untilsuch time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets isdeducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Issue costs of loans The finance cost recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the issue costs of borrowings is allocated to periods over theterms of the instrument using the effective interest rate method.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, and any costs directly attributable to bring the asset into operation.
Thepurchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold land nil Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over expected economic life not exceeding 50 years Short leasehold property over the term of the lease Plant and equipment 3-12 years The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists an impairment review is performed and, where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds or costs and the carrying amount of the item is included in the Income Statement in the year that the item is derecognised.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
On acquisition of businesses, separately identifiable intangible assets are initially recorded at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Access to the use of patented technology and trade names are valued using a relief from royalty method which determines the net present value of future additional cash flows arising from the use of the intangible asset.
Customer relationships are valued on the basis of the net present value of the future additional cash flows arising from customer relationships with appropriate allowance for attrition of customers.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the asset as follows: Customer relationships 20 years or less Brand names 20 years or less Computer software 5 years or less Development costs 5 years or less Melrose Industries PLC 102 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Computer software is initially recorded at cost.
Where these assets have been acquired through a business combination, this will be the fair value allocated in the acquisition accounting.
Where these have been acquired other than through a business combination, the initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment annually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses are measured on a similar basis to property, plant and equipment.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Research and development costs Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Costs relating to clearly defined and identifiable development projects are capitalised when there is a technical degree of exploitation, adequacy of resources and a potential market or development possibility in the undertaking that are recognisable: and where it is the intention to produce, market or execute the project.
A correlation must also exist between the costs incurred and future benefits and those costs can be measured reliably.
Capitalised costs are expensed on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of five years or less.
Costs not meeting such criteria are expensed asincurred.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value and measured using a first in, first out basis.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and appropriate production overhead expenditure incurred in bringing goods to their current state under normal operating conditions.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provisions are made for obsolescence or other expected losses where necessary.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables and other receivables are measured and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
The carrying amount of other receivables is reduced by the impairment loss directly and a charge is recorded in the Income Statement.
For trade receivables, the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account and changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade receivables that are assessed not to be impaired individually are also assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting receipts, an increase in the number of delayed receipts in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet comprise cash in hand, current balances with banks and similar institutions and short-term deposits which are readily convertible to cash which are subject to insignificant risks of changes in value.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with theborrowings.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisationprocess.
Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 103 Annual Report 2013 Financials Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant periods.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash payments throughout the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or theyexpire.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange rate and commodity risks, arising from operating and financing activities.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 24 of the financial statements.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
Their fair value is recalculated at each reporting date.
The accounting treatment for the resulting gain or loss will depend on whether the derivative meets the criteria to qualify for hedgeaccounting.
Where derivatives do not meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on the revaluation to fair value at the period end are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Where derivatives do meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss on revaluation depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of less than one year from the period end date are classified as current in the Balance Sheet.
Hedge accounting In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document from inception the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument and to show that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The Group designates certain hedging instruments as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Fair value hedge Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedge Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to the variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted cash flow.
The effective portion of any gain or loss from revaluing the derivative financial instrument is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts previously recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity are recycled to the Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement or when the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Melrose Industries PLC 104 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
Theeffective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from revaluing the derivative at a reporting period end is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the IncomeStatement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised immediately in the Income Statement when the foreign operation is disposed of or when the hedge is no longer expected to occur.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Restructurings A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by either starting to implement the plan or by announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Warranties Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products, at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups obligation.
Onerous contracts Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Environmental liabilities Liabilities for environmental costs are recognised when environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable and the associated costs can be reasonably estimated.
Generally, the timing of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action.
The amount recognised is the best estimate of the expenditure required.
Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, the amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
Employee benefits Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
The accounting policy for pensions and other retirement benefits is described below.
The Group also operates long term incentive plans LTIPs for Directors and certain employees.
The expected settlement costs of these plans are expensed on a straight-line basis over the life of the plans.
Pensions and other retirement benefits The Group operates defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans, some of which require contributions to be made to administered funds separate from the Group.
For the defined benefit pension and retirement benefit plans, plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
Any assets resulting from this calculation are limited to past service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation, and the related current service cost and past service cost, are measured using the projected unit creditmethod.
The service cost of providing pension and other retirement benefits to employees for the period is charged to the IncomeStatement.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 105 Annual Report 2013 Financials Net interest expense on net defined benefit obligations is determined by applying discount rates used to measure defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the year to net defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the year.
Net interest expense is recognised within finance costs.
Remeasurement gains and losses comprise actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on plan assets excluding interest.
Remeasurement gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised in full in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period in which they occur and are not subsequently recycled.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan obligations and actual experience during the period: or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan obligations.
For defined contribution plans, contributions payable are charged to the Income Statement as an operating expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to the contributions.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financialstatements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each Balance Sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the Income Statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the related operation is disposed of.
Any exchange differences that have previously been attributed to non-controlling interests are derecognised but they are not reclassified to the Income Statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rate prevailing at the Balance Sheet date.
Taxation The tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the period and represents the sum of the tax paid or currently payable and deferred tax.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except: where the deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Melrose Industries PLC 106 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred tax asset arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the relevant Balance Sheet date.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and not in the Income Statement.
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except: where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Balance Sheet.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2: Share-based payments.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value of the equity instrument excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equitysettled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on the Directors best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Government grants Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received.
Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to profit or loss over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
Non-current assets and businesses held for sale Non-current assets and businesses classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and businesses are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or business is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In applying the Groups accounting policies as set out in note 2, management have made critical accounting judgements.
These include the completion of the quantification of the fair value of assets and liabilities following the acquisition of Elster in 2012.
In addition, the impairment of non-current assets, the quantification of provisions, the valuation of retirement benefit obligations and taxation require management judgements.
Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making assumptions and estimates, Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 107 Annual Report 2013 Financials actual outcomes may differ from those assumptions and estimates.
An analysis of the key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year is provided below.
Fair values at acquisition As a result of the acquisition of Elster, management made judgements in the 2012 Annual Report regarding the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired particularly in relation to provisions and intangible assets.
In 2013, in accordance with IFRS 3: Business combinations, this extensive review of assets and liabilities was completed by the half year and fair values have been restated from the provisional values recorded as at 31 December 2012.
The measurement period is now closed.
The finalised fair value of assets and liabilities acquired are shown in note 12.
Impairment of non-current assets Goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts might be impaired and at least annually.
Such events and circumstances include the effects of restructuring initiated by management.
To determine whether goodwill and intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill and other intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the net present value.
Such calculations require judgement relating to the appropriate discount factors and long-term growth prevalent in a particular market as well as short and medium-term business plans.
Management draw upon experience as well as external resources in making these judgements.
The carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets including computer software and development costs at the Balance Sheet date was 2,612.0 million 31 December 2012: 3,048.8 million.
At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the Group recognised no impairment loss in respect of these assets.
Provisions The quantification of certain liabilities within provisions environmental remediation obligations and future costs and settlements in relation to certain legal claims have been estimated using the best information available.
However, such liabilities depend on the actions of third parties and on the specific circumstances pertaining to each obligation, neither of which is controlled by the Group.
Although provisions are reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted for managements best current estimates, the judgemental nature of these items means that future amounts settled may be different from those provided.
Further details are set out in note 20.
Retirement benefit obligations Retirement benefits are accounted for under IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits.
For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at the discounted present value whilst plan assets are recorded at fair value.
Because of changing market and economic conditions, the expenses and liabilities actually arising under the plans in the future may differ materially from the estimates made on the basis of these actuarial assumptions.
Therefore, declining returns on equity markets and markets for fixed-income instruments could necessitate additional contributions to the plans in order to cover future pension obligations.
Also, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life of participants may have an impact on the amount of pension income or expense recorded in the future.
The discount rate used to discount retirement benefit obligations to present value is derived from the yields of senior, high-quality corporate bonds at the Balance Sheet date.
These generally include AA-rated securities.
The discount rate is based on the market yield of a portfolio of bonds whose weighted residual maturities approximately correspond to the duration necessary to cover the entire benefit obligation.
Pension and other retirement benefits are inherently long-term and future experience may differ from the actuarial assumptions used to determine the net charge for retirement benefit obligations.
Note 23 to these consolidated financial statements describes the principal discount rate, earnings increase and pension retirement benefit obligation assumptions that have been used to determine the net charge for retirement benefit obligations in accordance with IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits.
The calculation of any charge relating to retirement benefit obligations is clearly dependent on the assumptions used, which reflects the exercise of judgement.
The assumptions adopted are based on prior experience, market conditions and the advice of plan actuaries.
At 31 December 2013, the Groups retirement benefit obligation deficit was 219.3 million 31 December 2012: 261.3 million.
Taxation The Group is subject to income tax in most of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Management is required to exercise judgement in determining the Groups provision for income taxes.
Managements judgement is required in estimating tax provisions where additional current tax may become payable in the future following the audit by the tax authorities of previously filed tax returns.
Managements judgement is also required as to whether a deferred tax asset should be recognised based on the availability of future taxable profits.
While the Group aims to ensure that the estimates recorded are accurate, the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
Melrose Industries PLC 108 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue, as defined by IAS 18: Revenue, is as follows: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Notes m m Continuing operations Revenue from the sale of goods 1,635.5 981.0 Revenue recognised on long-term contracts 6.5 9.2 Revenue from the provision of services 90.8 60.9 Revenue 5 1,732.8 1,051.1 Finance income 7 21.7 10.9 Total revenue from continuing operations as defined by IAS 18 1,754.5 1,062.0 Discontinued operations Revenue from the sale of goods 391.2 533.6 Revenue from the provision of services 1.6 2.6 Revenue 5,9 392.8 536.2 Finance income 0.1 0.1 Total revenue from discontinued operations as defined by IAS 18 392.9 536.3 Total revenue as defined by IAS 18 2,147.4 1,598.3 1 Restated to include the revenues of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
Segment information Segment information is presented in accordance with IFRS 8: Operating segments which requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reported to the Groups Board in order to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance.
The Groups reportable operating segments under IFRS 8 are categorised as follows: FKI segments Energy Lifting Elster segments Gas Electricity Water Elster central The Energy segment consists of the Brush business, a specialist supplier of energy industrial products to the global market.
TheLifting segment consists of the Bridon business, serving oil & gas production, mining, petrochemical, alternative energy and general construction markets.
Elster comprises the Gas, Electricity and Water segments along with their associated central costs.
These businesses serve residential and industrial metering and utilisation markets whilst providing related communications, networking and software solutions.
There are two central cost centres which are also separately reported to the Board: Central corporate 1 Central LTIPs 1 Long Term Incentive Plans.
The Central corporate cost centre contains the Melrose Group head office costs.
The Central LTIPs cost centre contains the costs associated with the new five year Melrose Incentive Plan granted on 11 April 2012, the previous Melrose Incentive Plan which crystallised on 22 March 2012 and the divisional management LTIPs that are in operation across the Group.
Following the disposal of Truth and Harris, the Other Industrial segment has ceased to exist and the results of these businesses have been included within discontinued operations.
The discontinued segment comprises Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris in both years.
The discontinued segment in 2012 also contains the MPC business.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 109 Annual Report 2013 Financials Transfer prices between business units are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The Groups geographical segments are determined by the location of the Groups non-current assets and, for revenue, the location of external customers.
Inter-segment sales are not material and have not been included in the analysis below.
The following tables present revenue, profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups operating segments for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the comparative period.
Note 6 gives details of exceptional costs and income.
Segment revenues and results Segment revenue from external customers 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Notes m m Continuing operations Energy 350.1 371.6 Lifting 266.4 268.4 FKI total 616.5 640.0 Gas 688.9 236.9 Electricity 247.5 106.8 Water 179.9 67.4 Elster total 1,116.3 411.1 Total continuing operations 4 1,732.8 1,051.1 Discontinued operations 4,9 392.8 536.2 Total revenue 2,125.6 1,587.3 1 Restated to include the revenues of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
Segment result 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Notes m m Continuing operations Energy 73.1 77.9 Lifting 34.1 35.8 2 FKI headline operating profit 107.2 113.7 Gas 152.4 46.7 Electricity 21.5 12.6 Water 23.0 1.4 Elster central 2.7 2.9 2 Elster headline operating profit 194.2 57.8 Central corporate 13.5 13.7 3 Central LTIPs 13.0 8.5 2 Headline operating profit 274.9 149.3 Intangible asset amortisation 64.6 31.5 Exceptional operating costs 6 19.3 70.8 Exceptional operating income 6 28.9 7.0 Operating profit 219.9 54.0 2 Finance costs headline 7 70.5 42.3 Finance costs exceptional 6,7 16.3 Finance income 7 21.7 10.9 Profit before tax 171.1 6.3 Tax 8 49.2 13.2 Profit for the year from discontinued operations 9 442.7 47.7 Profit for the year 564.6 40.8 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9 and for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
2 As defined on the Income Statement.
Melrose Industries PLC 110 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Segment information continued Total assets Total liabilities 1 1 Restated Restated 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Energy 497.7 498.4 146.5 184.1 Lifting 340.4 348.5 88.3 129.7 FKI total 838.1 846.9 234.8 313.8 Gas 2,038.7 2,134.0 470.3 600.9 Electricity 343.0 345.7 117.7 128.2 Water 201.6 257.3 92.6 171.9 Elster central 6.3 25.0 60.5 47.8 Elster total 2,589.6 2,762.0 741.1 948.8 Central corporate 249.6 185.4 491.9 1,271.9 2 Central LTIPs 21.6 20.3 Total continuing operations 3,677.3 3,794.3 1,489.4 2,554.8 Discontinued operations 655.7 153.5 Total 3,677.3 4,450.0 1,489.4 2,708.3 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Elster note 12 and to include the total assets and total liabilities of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
1 1 Capital expenditure Depreciation 2 2 Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Continuing operations Energy 16.8 8.7 5.9 5.1 Lifting 8.6 20.5 7.5 5.7 FKI total 25.4 29.2 13.4 10.8 Gas 14.1 5.5 15.4 5.1 Electricity 6.9 1.5 6.7 2.0 Water 3.7 2.0 4.5 2.0 Elster central 0.3 Elster total 25.0 9.0 26.6 9.1 Central corporate 0.6 0.9 0.7 0.6 Total continuing operations 51.0 39.1 40.7 20.5 Discontinued operations 10.3 17.6 7.7 10.9 Total 61.3 56.7 48.4 31.4 1 Including computer software and development costs.
2 1 1 Restated to include the capital expenditure and depreciation of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
Geographical information The Group operates in various geographical areas around the world.
The Groups country of domicile is the UK and the Groups revenues and non-current assets in Europe and North America are also considered to be material.
The Groups revenue from external customers and information about its segment assets non-current assets excluding interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets, derivative financial assets and non-current trade and other receivables by geographical location are detailed below: Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 111 Annual Report 2013 Financials 1 Revenue from external customers Non-current assets 2 Restated 2,3 Year ended year ended Restated 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m UK 213.5 126.2 417.2 400.9 Europe 574.4 332.9 1,557.1 1,637.2 North America 540.5 348.2 761.9 799.5 Other 404.4 243.8 117.0 86.9 Total continuing operations 1,732.8 1,051.1 2,853.2 2,924.5 Discontinued operations 392.8 536.2 443.1 Total 2,125.6 1,587.3 2,853.2 3,367.6 1 Revenue is presented by destination.
2 Restated to include the revenue and non-current assets of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
3 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Elster note 12.
Exceptional costs and income 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Exceptional costs m m Continuing operations Restructuring costs 18.8 51.3 Acquisition, disposal and financing costs operating 0.5 19.5 financing 16.3 Total exceptional costs 19.3 87.1 Total exceptional costs operating 19.3 70.8 Total exceptional costs financing 16.3 Total exceptional costs 19.3 87.1 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
During 2013, the continuing Group incurred 18.8 million 2012: 51.3 million of costs relating to restructuring programmes.
Thesecosts include 14.1 million in relation to restructuring within the Elster segment and 4.7 million in relation to the FKIbusinesses, mainly within the Energysegment.
Restructuring costs incurred in 2012 included 9.1 million relating to the closure of the old Elster head office along with 27.9 million of other restructuring costs that occurred within several of the key Elster businesses.
In addition, 11.1 million of surplus leasehold property costs were identified during 2012 and 3.2 million of restructuring costs were incurred in the FKI businesses.
The Group incurred 0.5 million of expenses on acquisition and disposal related activities during the year.
In 2012, operating acquisition and disposal costs of 19.5 million related primarily to the costs incurred in acquiring Elster.
Financing exceptional costs in 2012 related to the debt refinancings performed, mainly in respect of the acquisition of Elster.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Exceptional income m m Continuing operations Release of items previously booked as fair value adjustments 28.9 Pension curtailment gain 7.0 Total exceptional income 28.9 7.0 Following the successful resolution of certain warranty and legal issues in the second half of the year, and therefore outside of the fair value window, 28.9 million of provisions, inherited with the acquisition of Elster, have been released during the year as exceptional income.
During 2012, a number of amendments were made to Elster retirement medical benefits and retirement life insurance benefits in the US.
Theseremoved 7.0 million of liabilities resulting in a curtailment gain on these plans.
Melrose Industries PLC 112 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Revenues and expenses Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 1 1 1 Restated Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Net operating expenses comprise: m m m m m m Selling and distribution costs 148.3 83.1 22.8 31.5 171.1 114.6 Administration expenses 251.5 130.9 30.5 39.3 282.0 170.2 2 Share of headline results of joint ventures note 14 2.8 0.8 2.8 0.8 Other operating costs exceptional note 6 19.3 70.8 0.7 3.1 20.0 73.9 Other operating income exceptional note 6 28.9 7.0 28.9 7.0 Total net operating expenses 387.4 277.0 54.0 73.9 441.4 350.9 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9 and for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 1 1 1 Restated Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December Operating profit is stated 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 after charging crediting : m m m m m m Depreciation and impairment 37.8 19.3 7.9 10.6 45.7 29.9 Cost of inventories 1,125.5 720.1 266.3 378.8 1,391.8 1,098.9 Amortisation of customer relationships and brand names note 12 64.6 31.5 6.3 7.6 70.9 39.1 Amortisation of computer software and development costs note 12 5.3 2.1 0.2 0.3 5.5 2.4 Operating lease expense 11.3 7.4 2.5 3.7 13.8 11.1 2 Staff costs 380.2 232.5 91.2 127.3 471.4 359.8 2 Research and development costs 18.9 7.4 0.3 0.2 19.2 7.6 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.1 0.2 0.3 1.1 0.1 Impairment recognised on trade receivables 2.9 0.4 0.4 0.4 3.3 0.8 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9 and for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
2 Staff costs include 36.3 million 2012: 12.7 million of research and development related costs in continuing operations.
The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1.4 1.3 Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Elster acquisition Balance Sheet 0.4 Fees payable to the previous auditor of Elster 0.2 Total fees payable for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 1.4 1.9 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other audit services to the Group: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.4 1.3 Total audit fees 2.8 3.2 Audit-related assurance services: Review of the half year interim statement 0.2 0.1 Non-statutory audit of certain of the Companys businesses 1.0 Other audit-related assurance services 0.4 Total audit-related assurance services 1.2 0.5 Total audit and audit-related assurance services 4.0 3.7 Taxation compliance services 0.1 0.2 Other taxation advisory services 0.9 0.3 Corporate finance services 1.7 Other services 0.3 0.2 Total audit and non-audit fees 5.3 6.1 The other audit-related assurance services in 2012 related to investment circulars issued for the acquisition of Elster and the creation of the new parent company.
Corporate finance services in 2012 include due diligence and other transaction relatedservices.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 113 Annual Report 2013 Financials Details of the Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services and how auditors independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 68.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent feearrangements.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Staff costs during the year including executive Directors : Wages and salaries 293.5 183.6 Social security costs 58.1 29.4 Pension costs defined benefit plans 3.4 1.1 defined contribution plans 12.2 9.9 2 LTIPs 13.0 8.5 Total continuing staff costs 380.2 232.5 3 Discontinued staff costs 91.2 127.3 Total staff costs 471.4 359.8 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
3 Includes 0.7 million 2012: 0.1 million of defined benefit pension costs and 2.5 million 2012: 3.3 million of defined contribution pension costs.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Number Number Average monthly number of persons employed including executive Directors Energy 2,691 2,724 Lifting 1,696 1,706 Gas 3,827 4,017 Electricity 1,391 1,530 Water 1,104 1,310 Central corporate 35 33 Total continuing operations 10,744 11,320 Discontinued operations 2,999 3,453 Total average number of persons employed 13,743 14,773 1 Restated to include the employees of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Notes m m Finance costs and income Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 56.1 32.8 Amortisation of costs of raising finance 4.7 2.4 Net interest cost on pensions 9.0 6.2 Unwind of discount on provisions 20 0.7 0.9 2 Headline finance costs 70.5 42.3 Exceptional finance costs 6 16.3 Total finance costs 70.5 58.6 Finance income 21.7 10.9 Total continuing operations 48.8 47.7 3 Discontinued operations 9 0.1 0.1 Total net finance costs 48.9 47.8 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9 and for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
3 Includes 0.2 million 2012: 0.1 million net interest cost in relation to pensions.
Melrose Industries PLC 114 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Tax Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total 1 1 Restated Restated Year ended year ended Year ended year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Analysis of charge credit in year: m m m m m m Current tax 44.1 17.9 32.9 26.0 77.0 43.9 Deferred tax note 21 5.1 4.7 2.5 9.1 2.6 4.4 Total income tax charge 49.2 13.2 30.4 35.1 79.6 48.3 2 Tax charge on headline profit before tax 60.0 31.5 32.5 25.5 92.5 57.0 Exceptional tax charge 8.1 5.8 8.1 5.8 Tax charge credit on net exceptional items 3.7 13.1 3.7 13.1 Tax credit charge in respect of intangible asset amortisation 22.6 11.0 2.1 9.6 24.7 1.4 Total income tax charge 49.2 13.2 30.4 35.1 79.6 48.3 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9 and for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
The tax charge for the year ended 31 December 2013 includes an exceptional tax charge of 8.1 million relating to the tax costs arising on an internal reorganisation of the Water segment.
Within the 2012 exceptional tax charge of 5.8 million, 4.2 million related to the tax impact of the holding company restructuring that took place during the year as certain deferred tax assets were no longer considered likely to be available and 1.6 million related to businesses previously disposed.
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the Income Statement as follows: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax: Continuing operations 171.1 6.3 Discontinued operations note 9 72.4 83.4 243.5 89.7 Tax on profit on ordinary activities at weighted average rate 29.89% 2012: 28.33% 72.8 25.4 Tax effect of: Net permanent differences non-deductible items 5.8 6.9 Change to calculation of deferred tax liability on intangible asset 9.8 Effect of rate change on deferred tax liability on intangible asset 3.9 Temporary differences not recognised in deferred tax 2.2 4.4 Tax credits, withholding taxes and other rate differences 1.4 1.6 Prior year tax adjustments 2.4 5.6 Exceptional tax charge 8.1 5.8 Total tax charge for the year 79.6 48.3 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9 and for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
The reconciliation has been performed at a blended Group tax rate of 29.89% 2012: 28.33% which represents the weighted average of the tax rates applying to taxable profits in the jurisdictions in which those profits arose.
In addition to the amount charged to the Income Statement, a tax credit of nil 2012: 1.3 million has been recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
This represents a tax charge of 0.6 million 2012: 3.5 million credit in respect of retirement benefit obligations, a tax credit of 0.6 million 2012: 1.6 million charge in respect of movements on cash flow hedges and a tax charge of nil 2012: 0.6 million in respect of the use of losses on items taken directly to reserves in prioryears.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 115 Annual Report 2013 Financials 9.
Discontinued operations Disposal of businesses On 22 November 2013, the Group completed the disposal of Crosby and Acco, two businesses acquired as part of the FKI acquisition in 2008, for gross cash consideration of US $1,016.9 million 632.6 million.
The costs charged during the year associated with the disposal were 13.0 million.
The profit on disposal in the year was 256.6 million after the recycling of cumulative translation differences of 6.6 million.
The Crosby and Acco businesses were previously classified within the Lifting segment and are now shown within discontinued operations.
On 1 August 2013, the Group completed the disposal of Marelli also acquired as part of FKI, for cash consideration of 207.2million 177.1million.
The costs charged during the year associated with the disposal were 7.3 million.
The profit on disposal in the year was 70.4million after the recycling of cumulative translation differences of 3.5 million.
The Marelli business was previously classified within the Energy segment and is now shown within discontinued operations.
During the year, the Group also disposed of two other businesses: namely Truth disposed on 3 July 2013 and Harris disposed on 31 December 2013, both previously shown within the Other Industrial segment.
The combined cash consideration received for these businesses was US $215.4million 140.7 million and the costs incurred were 4.7 million.
The combined profit on disposal of these businesses was 73.7 million after the recycling of cumulative translation differences of 2.0 million.
During the year, up until the date of disposal, these businesses contributed 392.8 million of revenue and 79.5 million of headline operating profit.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2012 has been restated to exclude the results and cashflows of these businesses from continuing operations and include them as discontinued operations.
Discontinued operations in 2012 also contain the results and cashflows of the MPC business, which was disposed on 25 June 2012.
Financial performance of discontinued operations: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Revenue 392.8 536.2 Operating costs 313.3 442.0 2 Headline operating profit 79.5 94.2 Intangible asset amortisation 6.3 7.6 Exceptional items 0.7 3.1 Net finance costs 0.1 0.1 Profit before tax 72.4 83.4 2 Headline tax 32.5 25.5 Exceptional tax 2.1 9.6 Profit after tax 42.0 48.3 Cumulative translation differences recycled on disposals 12.1 Gain loss on disposal of net assets of discontinued operations 388.6 0.6 Profit for the period from discontinued operations 442.7 47.7 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 442.7 47.7 Non-controlling interests 442.7 47.7 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations.
Melrose Industries PLC 116 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Discontinued operations continued The major classes of assets and liabilities, by segment, disposed within these businesses were as follows: Other Discontinued Lifting Energy Industrial operations m m m m Goodwill and other intangible assets 285.5 42.4 34.7 362.6 Property, plant and equipment 40.2 30.0 12.6 82.8 Inventories 54.2 33.3 18.6 106.1 Trade and other receivables 47.6 41.8 13.6 103.0 Cash and cash equivalents 25.3 6.6 5.3 37.2 Total assets 452.8 154.1 84.8 691.7 Trade and other payables 33.1 38.4 14.5 86.0 Retirement benefit obligations 6.1 4.1 10.2 Provisions 9.3 0.4 0.1 9.8 Tax and deferred tax 34.7 8.3 5.9 48.9 Total liabilities 83.2 51.2 20.5 154.9 Net assets 369.6 102.9 64.3 536.8 1 Cash consideration net of costs 619.6 169.8 136.0 925.4 Cumulative translation differences recycled on disposals 6.6 3.5 2.0 12.1 Profit on disposal of businesses 256.6 70.4 73.7 400.7 1 Net of 25.0 million of disposal costs.
Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m 1 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2011 paid of 8.4p 4.8p 32.8 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 paid of 2.6p 32.9 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 paid of 5.0p 63.3 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 paid of 2.75p 34.8 98.1 65.7 1 Adjusted to include the effects of the Rights Issue on 1 August 2012 note 11.
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 5.0p per share 2012: 5.0p per share totalling 53.6 million 2012:63.3 million.
The final dividend of 5.0p was proposed by the Board on 5 March 2014 and, in accordance with IAS 10: Events after the reporting period, has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 117 Annual Report 2013 Financials 11.
Earnings per share 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Earnings attributable to owners of the parent m m Profit for the purposes of earnings per share 562.7 39.1 Less: profit for the year from discontinued operations note 9 442.7 47.7 Earnings for basis of earnings per share from continuing operations 120.0 8.6 Continuing operations Intangible asset amortisation 64.6 31.5 Exceptional costs note 6 operating 19.3 70.8 Exceptional income note 6 operating 28.9 7.0 Exceptional costs note 6 financing 16.3 2 Exceptional tax 10.8 18.3 2 Earnings for basis of headline earnings per share from continuing operations 164.2 84.7 Discontinued operations note 9 Profit for the period from discontinued operations 442.7 47.7 Profit loss on disposal of businesses 400.7 0.6 Intangible asset amortisation 6.3 7.6 Exceptional items 0.7 3.1 2 Exceptional tax 2.1 9.6 2 Earnings for basis of headline earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations 211.1 153.3 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9 and for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
Number Number Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of basic earnings 1 per share including, for 2012, the effects of the Rights Issue million 1,266.6 945.4 2 Further shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share including, for 2012, 1 the effects of the Rights Issue million 20.1 15.3 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share million 1,286.7 960.7 1 On 1 August 2012, a 2 for 1, fully underwritten, Rights Issue was completed by Melrose PLC and subsequently 844.4 million new Melrose Ordinary Shares were issued raising 1.2billion to part fund the acquisition of Elster Group S. E..
In accordance with IAS 33: Earnings per share, a bonus factor associated with the issue of the new share capital of 57%was applied to the number of Ordinary Shares for the purpose of earnings per share calculations for 2012.
2 Relating to the 2012 Melrose Incentive Plan and the previous Melrose Incentive Plan which crystallised on 11 April 2012.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Earnings per share pence pence Basic earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 44.4 4.1 From continuing operations 9.5 0.9 From discontinued operations 34.9 5.0 Diluted earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 43.7 4.1 From continuing operations 9.3 0.9 From discontinued operations 34.4 5.0 2 Headline basic earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 16.7 16.2 From continuing operations 13.0 9.0 2 Headline diluted earnings per share From continuing and discontinued operations 16.4 16.0 From continuing operations 12.8 8.8 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9 and for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
Melrose Industries PLC 118 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Included within customer relationships is an element in relation to the Gas segment which has a carrying amount as at 31 December 2013 of 647.5 million 2012: 679.0 million and a remaining amortisation period of 18 years and 8 months.
The goodwill generated as a result of acquisitions represents the premium paid in excess of the fair value of all assets, including intangible assets, identified at the point of acquisition and in the subsequent review period.
This premium reflects the Directors view, at the date of acquisition and before any turnaround processes have been applied, of the future growth potential of the businesses acquired at that date.
Furthermore, value is added to the businesses acquired through future improvements that are applied, achieved through a combination of revised strategic direction, operational improvements and investment.
This is expected to result in improved profitability and cash flows of the acquired businesses during the period of ownership and is also expected to result in enhanced disposal proceeds when the acquired businesses are ultimately disposed.
The combined value achieved from these improvements is expected to result in the businesses being valued in excess of the fair value of all assets and goodwill acquired.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 119 Annual Report 2013 Financials Goodwill has been allocated to the businesses, each of which comprises several cash-generating units, as follows: 1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Energy 207.4 209.1 Lifting 86.2 86.3 FKI total 293.6 295.4 Gas 1,072.0 1,068.1 Electricity 157.9 163.9 Water 78.5 82.0 Elster total 1,308.4 1,314.0 Discontinued 256.8 1,602.0 1,866.2 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Elster and to include the goodwill of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
Value in use calculations are used to determine the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to each group of cash-generating units CGUs and use the latest approved forecasts extrapolated to perpetuity using growth rates shown below, which do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the relevant market.
The basis of these impairment tests and the key assumptions are set out in the table below: 31 December 2013 Carrying value of Pre-tax Long-term Basis of Goodwill discount Period of Key assumptions applied in the growth 1 2 3 Group of CGUs Valuation m rates forecast forecast cash flow projections rates Energy Value in use 207.4 10.4% 4 years Revenue growth, Operating margins 2.5% Lifting Value in use 86.2 9.8% 5 years Revenue growth, Operating margins 3.2% Gas Value in use 1,072.0 9.8% 4 years Revenue growth, Operating margins 2.5% Electricity Value in use 157.9 9.8% 4 years Revenue growth, Operating margins 2.9% Water Value in use 78.5 10.0% 3 years Revenue growth, Operating margins 2.5% 31 December 2012 Carrying value of Pre-tax Long-term Basis of Goodwill discount Period of Key assumptions applied in the growth 1 2 3 Group of CGUs Valuation m rates forecast forecast cash flow projections rates Energy Value in use 209.1 7.9% 2 years Revenue growth, Operating margins 2.5% Lifting Value in use 86.3 9.2% 2 years Revenue growth, Operating margins 2.5% Gas Value in use 1,068.1 8.5% 3 years Revenue growth, Operating margins 3.0% Electricity Value in use 163.9 8.7% 3 years Revenue growth, Operating margins 3.0% Water Value in use 82.0 8.0% 3 years Revenue growth, Operating margins 3.0% 1 Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates Cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate specific to each CGU.
Discount rates reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and are based on the estimated cost of capital of each CGU.
In determining the cost of equity, the Capital Asset Pricing Model CAPM has been used.
Under CAPM, the cost of equity is determined by adding a risk premium to the risk free rate to reflect the additional risk associated with investing outside of lending to a country e. g. the purchase of UK Gilts.
The premium is based on an industry adjustment Beta to the expected return of the equity market above the risk free return.
The relative risk adjustment reflects the risk inherent in each CGU relative to all other sectors and geographies onaverage.
Melrose Industries PLC 120 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued 2 Assumptions applied in financial forecasts The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from financial budgets and mid-term plans approved by management.
The key assumptions used in forecasting pre-tax cash flows relate to future budgeted revenue and operating margins likely to be achieved and the likely rates of long-term growth by market sector.
Underlying factors in determining the values assigned to each key assumption by CGU are shown below: Revenue growth: Revenue growth assumptions in the forecast period are based on financial budgets and mid-term plans approved by management, taking into account industry growth rates and management of each divisions historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
Projected sales are built up with reference to markets and product categories.
They incorporate past performance, historical growth rates, projections of developments in key markets, secured orders and orders likely to be achieved in the short to medium-term, given trends in the relevant market sector.
FKI Bridon designs and manufactures lifting and stabilising solutions for applications in wire rope, fibre rope, steel wire and strand.
The business services global customers in the oil & gas, mining, industrial, marine and infrastructure sectors.
The key drivers for revenues are i oil & gas drilling and rig count which in turn is dependent upon oil & natural gas prices and storage levels ii global mining activity, both operating and capital expenditures from mining companies which in turn is dependent upon demand for coal and metals iii commercial construction iv trade through seaports and demand from crane OEMs.
Independent forecasts of growth in these served end markets have been used to derive revenue growthassumptions.
Brush is a supplier of turbogenerators for the power generation, industrial, oil & gas and offshore sectors and a leading supplier of switchgear, transformers and other power infrastructure equipment.
The key drivers for revenues are i original equipment investments in the global power market, both new capacity mainly emerging markets and replacement capacity mainly in mature markets ii growth in service requirements of a growing installed base iii new product introduction.
Independent forecasts of growth in these power generation markets have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions.
Elster Elster Gas designs and manufactures gas measurement, process heat control and gas safety control equipment.
The key drivers for growth are i global energy consumption and the growing share for natural gas ii international legislation aimed at driving down emission levels and increasing efficiency which in turn stimulates demand for Smart meters and process heat applications.
Independent forecasts of the growth in these end markets have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions as well as managements best estimates of the impact of residential Smart meter rollouts in the EU.
Elster Electricity is an international metering solution provider supplying both traditional and Smart meter equipment, including applications for residential, commercial, industrial, transmission and distribution markets.
The key drivers for revenues are i global demand for electricity metering requirements, both traditional and Smart ii market developments in meter data software solutions.
Independent forecasts of the growth in the meter hardware and related meter software end markets have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions as well as managements best estimates of the impact of residential Smart meter rollouts in the EU.
Elster Water designs and manufactures a comprehensive range of water metering solutions.
The key driver for revenue growth is the global demand for water meters, both traditional and Smart.
Revenue growth assumptions have been built up with reference to past performance, historical growth rates and projections of developments in key markets.
Operating margins: Operating margins have been forecast based on historical levels considering the likely impact of changing economic environments and competitive landscapes on volumes and revenues and the impact of management actions on costs.
Projected margins reflect the impact of all initiated projects to improve operational efficiency and leverage scale.
The projections do not include the impact of future restructuring projects to which the Group is not yet committed.
Forecasts for other overhead costs are based on inflation forecasts and supply and demand factors.
3 Long-term growth rates Long-term growth rates are based on long-term economic forecasts for growth in the manufacturing sector in the geography in which the CGU operates.
Long-term growth rates are determined using a blend of publicly available historical data and a long-term growth rate forecast published by external analysts and further take into account the international presence and the markets in which each business operates.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 121 Annual Report 2013 Financials Sensitivity analysis A reasonable possible change in the assumptions applied would not result in any impairment.
Base case forecasts show significant headroom above the carrying value for each group of CGUs.
Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken for each group of CGUs to assess the impact of any reasonable possible change in key assumptions.
There is no reasonable possible change that would cause the carrying values to exceed recoverable amounts.
Acquisition of subsidiaries During the year the non-controlling interest of a Gas subsidiary business was acquired for total consideration of 9.8 million.
In line with the Groups strategy to acquire good manufacturing businesses with potential for improvements, on 23 August 2012 the Group acquired 99.35% of the issued share capital and obtained control of Elster Group S. E. for cash consideration of 1,469.8million.
Subsequently a further 0.45% of the remaining 0.65% share capital was purchased on various dates in 2012 for total consideration of 6.4 million.
The final 0.20% share capital was purchased during 2013 for total consideration of 3.0 million.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition of Elster were set out in the 2012 Annual Report.
During the year, the Group has completed its review of the assets and liabilities acquired.
As a result the Group recorded its final adjustments to the opening balance sheet of Elster at the half year.
In accordance with IFRS 3: Business combinations the Balance Sheet at 31December 2012 has been restated to reflect this.
These adjustments increased provisions by 32.9 million, deferred tax assets by 5.2million, other payables by 0.9 million and reduced inventory and property, plant and equipment by 0.6 million and 0.1 million respectively.
Thecorresponding adjustment is to increase goodwill by 29.3million.
The measurement period was closed at 30 June 2013.
1 Restated fair value m Elster Property, plant and equipment 100.2 Intangible assets, computer software and development costs 886.7 Derivative financial assets 0.3 Interests in joint ventures 9.8 Inventories 175.6 Trade and other receivables 182.6 Cash and cash equivalents 105.6 Trade and other payables 356.9 Provisions 175.9 Deferred tax 200.8 Retirement benefit obligation 117.3 Current tax 29.2 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 411.9 Non-controlling interests 4.9 Net assets 163.9 Non-controlling interests Elster shares 1.2 Goodwill 1,307.1 Total consideration 1,469.8 Satisfied by: Cash consideration 1,469.8 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Elster.
Melrose Industries PLC 122 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Property, plant and equipment 1 Restated 1 Land and Plant and Restated buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 102.9 190.7 293.6 Acquisitions 27.3 72.9 100.2 Additions 7.5 47.0 54.5 Disposals 0.3 2.6 2.9 Disposal of businesses 5.8 19.0 24.8 Exchange adjustments 2.0 4.7 6.7 At 31 December 2012 129.6 284.3 413.9 Additions 4.5 52.9 57.4 Disposals 1.1 5.7 6.8 Disposal of businesses 36.6 91.9 128.5 Exchange adjustments 1.3 1.9 3.2 At 31 December 2013 95.1 237.7 332.8 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2012 10.0 68.3 78.3 Charge for the period 3.3 25.7 29.0 Impairments 0.9 0.9 Disposals 1.6 1.6 Disposal of businesses 0.9 8.8 9.7 Exchange adjustments 0.2 1.6 1.8 At 31 December 2012 12.2 82.9 95.1 Charge for the period 4.6 38.3 42.9 2 Impairments 2.8 2.8 Disposals 1.7 1.7 Disposal of businesses 5.2 40.5 45.7 Exchange adjustments 0.1 1.7 1.8 At 31 December 2013 11.5 80.1 91.6 Net book value At 31 December 2013 83.6 157.6 241.2 At 31 December 2012 117.4 201.4 318.8 At 1 January 2012 92.9 122.4 215.3 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Elster note 12.
2 The impairment of plant and equipment comprises 0.6 million in relation to the Energy segment, 1.8 million in relation to the Water segment and 0.4 million in relation to discontinued operations.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 123 Annual Report 2013 Financials 14.
Interests in joint ventures 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Aggregated amounts relating to joint ventures: Share of assets 24.0 22.4 Share of liabilities 11.4 10.0 Interests in joint ventures 12.6 12.4 Share of joint venture revenues 36.6 11.4 Share of results of joint ventures 2.8 0.8 Dividends received from joint ventures 2.7 0.3 A list of all the significant investments in subsidiaries including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 3 to the Companys separate financial statements.
Inventories 1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Raw materials 75.1 114.8 Work in progress 89.2 156.9 Finished goods 70.2 103.8 234.5 375.5 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Elster note 12.
The Directors consider that there is no material difference between the Balance Sheet value of inventories and their replacement cost.
The expense of writing down inventory to net realisable value during the year totalled 8.7 million whilst reversals of previous write downs of inventory amounted to 5.3 million.
Construction contracts 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Contracts in progress at the Balance Sheet date: Amounts due from contract customers included in other receivables 4.7 3.0 4.7 3.0 Contract costs incurred plus recognised profit less recognised losses to date 14.8 9.4 Less: progress billings 10.1 6.4 4.7 3.0 The average life of contracts is 1-2 years 31 December 2012: 1-2 years.
Melrose Industries PLC 124 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Current m m Trade receivables 257.2 334.1 Allowance for doubtful receivables 8.2 12.6 Amounts due from joint ventures 1.0 1.3 Other receivables 27.5 42.2 Prepayments 15.3 19.1 292.8 384.1 Trade receivables are non interest-bearing.
Credit terms offered to customers vary upon the country of operation but are generally between 30 and 90 days.
31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Non-current m m Other receivables 0.3 0.3 An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts with reference to past default experience and managements assessment of credit worthiness, an analysis of which is as follows: 1 FKI Elster Central Discontinued Total m m m m m At 1 January 2012 0.7 0.1 2.4 3.2 Acquired with business 10.2 10.2 Disposal of businesses 0.3 0.3 Income Statement charge 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.8 Utilised 0.2 0.9 0.2 1.3 Exchange differences At 31 December 2012 0.7 9.5 0.1 2.3 12.6 Disposal of businesses 2.6 2.6 Income Statement charge 0.8 2.1 0.4 3.3 Utilised 0.2 4.8 0.1 0.1 5.2 Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2013 1.3 6.9 8.2 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the large number of customers and because they are unrelated to each other.
Credit control procedures are implemented to ensure that sales are only made to organisations that are willing and able to pay for them.
Such procedures include the establishment and review of customer credit limits and terms.
The Group does not hold any collateral or any other credit enhancements over any of its trade receivables nor does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
The ageing of impaired trade receivables past due is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Ageing of impaired trade receivables past due m m 0 30 days 0.4 1.9 31 60 days 0.2 0.4 60 days 7.6 10.3 8.2 12.6 Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are overdue trade receivables with a carrying amount of 42.7 million 31 December 2012: 88.0 million against which an appropriate provision of 8.2 million 31 December 2012: 12.6 million is held.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 125 Annual Report 2013 Financials The balance deemed recoverable of 34.5 million 31 December 2012: 75.4 million is past due as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m 0 30 days 23.9 58.1 31 60 days 7.2 7.9 60 days 3.4 9.4 34.5 75.4 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables, including amounts not past due and not impaired, approximates to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Cash and cash equivalents 200.4 156.5 Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at bank and in hand which earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates and short-term deposits which are made for varying periods of between one day and one month and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The carrying amount of these assets is considered to be equal to their fair value.
Trade and other payables 1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Current m m Trade payables 195.3 253.4 Other payables 111.8 169.5 Other taxes and social security 13.0 16.5 Deferred government grants 2.2 2.4 Accruals 76.9 98.5 399.2 540.3 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting of Elster note 12.
Trade payables are non interest-bearing.
Normal settlement terms vary by country and the average credit period taken for trade purchases is 100days 2012: 98 days.
Other payables are non interest-bearing and have an average term of approximately 60days.
31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Non-current m m Other payables 1.1 0.9 Accruals 0.4 1.7 1.5 2.6 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Melrose Industries PLC 126 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Details of the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency risk are included in note 24.
Current Non-current Total 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Fixed rate obligations Bank borrowings Brazilian Real 6.2 6.2 6.2 6.2 Floating rate obligations 1 Bank borrowings US Dollar loan 175.1 423.3 175.1 423.3 2 Bank borrowings Euro loan 298.2 298.2 3 Bank borrowings Sterling loan 180.0 447.5 180.0 447.5 Bank borrowings Brazilian Real 2.4 2.4 357.5 1,169.0 357.5 1,169.0 Unamortised finance costs 16.3 21.0 16.3 21.0 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 6.2 341.2 1,148.0 341.2 1,154.2 1 Interest rate LIBOR 2.25%, final maturity June 2017 31 December 2012: interest rate LIBOR 2.00%, final maturity June 2017.
2 Interest rate EURIBOR 2.25%, final maturity June 2017 31 December 2012: interest rate EURIBOR 2.00%, final maturity June 2017.
3 Interest rate LIBOR 2.25%, final maturity June 2017 31 December 2012: interest rate LIBOR 2.00%, final maturity June 2017.
As at 1 January 2013, the Group held a five year multi-currency facility split between a 0.5 billion term loan and a 1.0 billion revolving credit facility.
These facilities are due to mature on 29 June 2017.
As at 1 January 2013, the term loan was split into two tranches of 180 million and US $500 million.
During the year, following the receipt of business disposal proceeds, US $210 million was repaid and cancelled against the US Dollar denominated term loan.
At31 December 2013, the 180 million and the remaining US $290 million term loan tranches remain drawn down.
The Sterling denominated term loan is subject to mandatory repayments of 5% on June 2015, June 2016 and 31 December 2016, adjusted for any term loan repayments made prior to these dates.
Following the repayments made against the US Dollar denominated tranche in the year no further mandatory repayments are due in respect of the US Dollar denominated term loan before 29 June 2017.
As at 1 January 2013, the revolving credit facility was split between a 760 million Sterling denominated multi-currency facility and a 300 million Euro denominated facility.
These were both partially drawn at 1 January 2013.
During the year, 18.5 million of the Sterling denominated facility was repaid and cancelled.
The remaining revolving credit facilities of 741.5 million and 300 million were repaid, but not cancelled, during the year following the receipt of business disposals.
There were no drawdowns against these facilities at 31 December 2013.
Throughout the year, the Group remained compliant with all covenants under the facilities disclosed above.
A number of companies continue to be guarantors under the bank facilities.
In addition, until Elster Group S. E. becomes converted into a German limited liability company, a pledge has been given over the shares of Elster Group S. E.. Drawdowns under the existing facility bear interest at interbank rates of interest plus a margin determined by reference to the Groups performance under its debt cover covenant ratio and which ranges between 1.40% and 2.65%.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 127 Annual Report 2013 Financials Maturity of financial liabilities The maturity profile of anticipated future cash flows including interest in relation to the Groups financial liabilities, on an undiscounted basis and which, therefore, differs from both the carrying value and fair value is shown in the table below.
Interest on floating rate debt is based on the relevant LIBOR curve for US Dollar and Sterling balances and the EURIBOR curve for Euro balances.
Interest on hedging interest rate swaps is based on the relevant forward LIBOR curves for US Dollar and Sterling amounts and EURIBOR curve for Euro amounts and is illustrated as a net cash flow.
1 1 Interest-bearing Derivative Restated Restated loans and financial other financial total financial borrowings liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m Within one year 9.6 7.2 384.0 400.8 In one to two years 22.0 1.5 23.5 In two to five years 368.8 368.8 Effect of financing rates 59.2 59.2 31 December 2013 341.2 7.2 385.5 733.9 Within one year 33.3 7.0 521.4 561.7 In one to two years 28.2 3.8 2.6 34.6 In two to five years 1,252.9 0.3 1,252.6 Effect of financing rates 160.2 160.2 31 December 2012 1,154.2 10.5 524.0 1,688.7 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Elster note 12.
Provisions Surplus leasehold Environmental Incentive plan Warranty property costs and legal costs related related costs Other Total m m m m m m 1 At 31 December 2012 restated 31.5 68.7 20.3 102.5 64.2 287.2 2 Utilised 10.6 7.7 7.7 24.1 55.3 105.4 3 Net release to exceptional items 0.5 1.8 19.7 14.7 3.7 4 Net charge to headline operating profit 0.9 9.0 2.8 0.8 7.9 Disposal of businesses 9.2 0.6 9.8 Unwind of discount note 7 0.6 0.1 0.7 Exchange differences 0.2 0.5 0.2 1.0 0.9 At 31 December 2013 21.2 54.1 21.6 56.1 24.8 177.8 Current 6.6 8.3 38.1 21.4 74.4 Non-current 14.6 45.8 21.6 18.0 3.4 103.4 21.2 54.1 21.6 56.1 24.8 177.8 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Elster note 12.
2 Includes 98.2 million of cash spend against provisions and 7.2 million non cash utilisation.
3 Net of 26.9 million of provisions originally booked as fair value adjustments on acquisition of Elster, released to exceptional income, and 23.2 million of other exceptional costs, mainly relating to restructuring.
4 As defined on the Income Statement.
The provision for surplus leasehold property costs represents the estimated net payments payable over the term of these leases together with any dilapidation costs.
This is expected to result in cash expenditure over the next one to five years.
Environmental and legal costs provisions relate to the estimated remediation costs of pollution, soil and groundwater contamination at certain sites and estimated future costs and settlements in relation to legal claims.
Due to their nature, it is not possible to predict precisely when these provisions will be utilised.
Incentive plan related provisions are in respect of long term incentive plans for divisional senior management, expected to result in cash expenditure in the next four years.
The provision for warranty related costs represents the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups obligations.
Warranty terms are, on average, between one and five years.
Other provisions relate primarily to costs that will be incurred in respect of restructuring programmes, usually resulting in cash spend within one year.
Where appropriate, provisions have been discounted using a discount rate of 3% 31 December 2012: 3%.
Melrose Industries PLC 128 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period.
Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated Deferred 1 1 Restated capital tax on Restated tax losses and allowances and intangible Total deferred total net other assets other liabilities assets tax liabilities deferred tax Notes m m m m m At 1 January 2012 40.4 14.7 83.6 98.3 57.9 Charge credit to income 8 1.6 4.2 1.4 2.8 4.4 Credit charge to other comprehensive income 3.5 1.6 1.6 1.9 Acquisition of businesses 12 109.0 43.4 266.4 309.8 200.8 Exchange differences 1.0 0.1 1.4 1.3 0.3 At 31 December 2012 150.3 64.0 347.2 411.2 260.9 Charge credit to income 8 64.1 36.8 24.7 61.5 2.6 Charge credit to other comprehensive income 0.6 0.6 0.6 Disposal of businesses 15.8 14.4 36.2 50.6 34.8 Exchange differences 0.5 1.1 1.1 0.6 At 31 December 2013 70.3 12.2 287.4 299.6 229.3 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Elster note 12 and for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had gross unused losses of 217.1 million 31 December 2012: 250.6 million available for offset against future profits.
At 31 December 2013, a 9.7 million deferred tax asset 31 December 2012: 9.1 million in respect of 42.0 million 31 December 2012: 35.5 million of these gross losses were recognised in the Balance Sheet.
No asset was recognised in respect of the remaining losses due to the divisional and geographic split of anticipated future profit streams and the effect of possible disposals in future years.
The majority of these losses may be carried forward indefinitely subject to certain continuity of business requirements.
A deferred tax asset of 25.6 million 31 December 2012: 37.8 million was recognised on Group retirement benefit obligations, being the extent to which they are expected to generate tax deductions against foreseeable taxable profits.
The remaining asset of 35.0 million 31 December 2012: 103.4 million relates to other temporary differences.
As at 31 December 2013, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities had not been recognised was 3.3 million 31 December 2012: 6.6 million.
No liability was recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Share-based payments Melrose Incentive Plans The Company has 50,000 options 31 December 2012: 50,000 options in issue which enable the holder of these options to subscribe for 2012 Incentive Shares.
These options are held by Directors and senior employees.
Further details of the 2012 Melrose Incentive Plan are provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 70 to 84.
The estimated value of the 2012 Incentive Shares at 31 December 2013 was 73.0 million 31 December 2012: 8.6 million.
Using a Black Scholes option pricing model, the estimated fair value attributable to this plan in over three years time, at 31 May 2017, will be 101.7 million 31 December 2012: 60.2 million.
The inputs into the Black Scholes model that were used to fair value the plan when it was originally established in 2012 were asfollows: Valuation assumptions Weighted average share price 2.27 Weighted average exercise price 2.85 Expected volatility 30.0% Expected life as at inception 5.0 yrs Risk free interest 1.0% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price.
The Group recognised an IFRS 2 charge of 4.0 million 2012: 3.5 million, of which 0.8 million related to the previous Melrose Incentive Plan in the year ended 31 December 2013 in relation to the equity settled 2012 Melrose Incentive Plan.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 129 Annual Report 2013 Financials 23.
Retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution plans The Group operates defined contribution plans for qualifying employees across several jurisdictions.
The assets of the plans are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.
The total costs charged in relation to the continuing businesses during the year of 12.2 million 2012: 9.9 million represents contributions payable to these plans by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.
Defined benefit plans The Group sponsors defined benefit plans for qualifying employees of certain subsidiaries.
The funded defined benefit plans are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Group.
The trustees of the funds are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the plans.
The trustees of the pension funds are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
During July 2013, the most significant defined benefit plan in the Group, being the FKI UK Pension Plan, was demerged into three separate independent plans.
Two new plans, namely the Bridon Group 2013 Pension Plan and the Brush Group 2013 Pension Plan, were established.
Throughout this note these three plans are collectively referred to as the FKI UK Pension Plans.
The most significant defined benefit pension plans are: The FKI UK Pension Plans which are defined benefit in type and are funded plans.
The plans are closed to new members andthe accrual of future benefits for existing members.
The McKechnie UK Pension Plan which is defined benefit in type and is a funded plan other than 4.0 million of unfunded liabilities.
The plan is closed to new members and the accrual of future benefits for existing members.
The FKI US Pension Plan which is defined benefit in type and is a funded plan.
Other plans include a number of funded and unfunded defined benefit arrangements across Europe, North America and the rest ofthe world.
The Group also operates unfunded retiree medical and welfare benefit plans, principally in the US.
The cost of the Groups defined benefit plans is determined in accordance with IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits with the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries on the basis of formal actuarial valuations using the projected unit credit method.
In line with normal practice, these valuations are undertaken triennially in the UK and annually in the US.
Valuations of the FKI UK Pension Plans are based on full actuarial valuations as of 31 March 2013 and updated at 31 December 2013 by independent actuaries.
The McKechnie UK Pension Plan valuation is based on a full valuation at 31 December 2011 updated at 31 December 2013 by independent actuaries.
The FKI US Pension Plan valuation is based on the US full actuarial valuation as of 31 December 2012, updated at 31 December 2013 by independent actuaries.
The Group contributed 20.0 million 2012: 18.5 million to the FKI UK Pension Plans and 5.2 million 2012: 4.6 million to the McKechnie UK Pension Plan in the year ended 31 December 2013.
Similar contributions will be made to these plans in 2014.
In total, the Group expects to contribute approximately 33.4 million to its defined benefit plans in the year ended 31 December 2014.
In the year, the Group has adopted IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits and restated prior year pension numbers as if the new standard had been effective from 1 January 2012.
The impact of this new standard is disclosed in note 1.
Actuarial assumptions The major weighted average assumptions used by the actuaries in calculating the Groups pension liabilities are as set out below: 31 December 2013 FKI UK McKechnie FKI US European Plans UK Plan Plan US Plans Plans Other plans % p. a.
1 Rate of increase in salaries n a 3.90 n a 4.00 2.75 3.00 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.20 3.20 n a n a 1.90 n a Discount rate 4.40 4.40 4.70 4.70 3.50 4.70 RPI inflation assumption 3.40 3.40 n a n a 1.90 2.25 1 Closed to the accrual of future benefits but active members benefits are still linked to current salaries.
Melrose Industries PLC 130 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued 31 December 2012 FKI UK McKechnie FKI US European Plans UK Plan Plan US Plans Plans Other plans % p. a.
1 Rate of increase in salaries n a 3.50 n a 4.00 2.75 3.00 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.90 3.00 n a n a 1.90 n a Discount rate 4.50 4.50 3.90 3.90 2.90 3.90 RPI inflation assumption 3.00 3.00 n a n a 1.90 2.90 1 Closed to the accrual of future benefits but active members benefits are still linked to current salaries.
Mortality FKI UK Pension Plans Mortality assumptions for the most significant plans in the Group, the FKI UK Plans, as at 31 December 2013 are based on the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS S1 base tables with scaling factors of 110% and 105% for deferred members and pensioners respectively, which reflect the results of a mortality analysis carried out on the plans membership.
Future improvements are in line with the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI improvement model with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% p. a. for both males and females.
The assumptions are that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 21.9 years 31 December 2012: 22.1 years if they are male and for a further 24.1 years 31 December 2012: 24.2 years if they are female.
For a member who retires in 2033 at age 65, the assumptions are that they will live for a further 23.3 years 31 December 2012: 23.5 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 25.6 years 31 December 2012: 25.8 years after retirement if they are female.
The mortality assumptions are in line with those adopted for the full valuation as at 31 March 2013.
Other plans The mortality assumptions adopted as at 31 December 2013 have been set to reflect the Groups best estimate view of life expectancies of members of each individual pension arrangement.
These mortality assumptions vary by arrangement, each assumption reflecting the characteristics of the membership of that arrangement.
Balance Sheet disclosures The amount recognised in the Balance Sheet arising from net liabilities in respect of defined benefit plans is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 1,187.6 1,186.6 Fair value of plan assets 1,070.8 1,043.3 Funded status 116.8 143.3 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 102.5 118.0 Net liabilities 219.3 261.3 The plan liabilities and assets at 31 December 2013 were split by plan as follows: FKI UK McKechnie FKI US European 1 Plans UK Plan Plan US Plans Plans Other plans Total m m m m m m m Plan liabilities 780.6 183.0 183.0 39.3 101.5 2.7 1,290.1 Plan assets 671.4 182.5 177.6 27.4 9.5 2.4 1,070.8 Net liabilities 109.2 0.5 5.4 11.9 92.0 0.3 219.3 1 The FKI UK Plans comprise three separate plans: the FKI UK Pension Plan, the Brush Group 2013 Pension Plan and the Bridon Group 2013 Pension Plan.
The net liabilities of these plans are 70.8 million, 29.4 million and 9.0 million respectively.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 131 Annual Report 2013 Financials The major categories and fair values of plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Equities 381.6 410.7 Government bonds 215.8 194.4 Corporate bonds 318.6 339.9 Property 18.5 19.4 Insurance contracts 13.5 14.4 Other 122.8 64.5 Total 1,070.8 1,043.3 The assets are well diversified and the majority of plan assets have quoted prices in active markets.
All government bonds are issued by reputable governments and are generally AA rated or higher.
Interest rate and inflation rate swaps are also employed to complement the role of fixed and index-linked bond holdings for liability risk management.
The Trustees continually review whether the chosen investment strategy is appropriate with a view to providing the pension benefits and to ensure appropriate matching of risk and return profiles.
The main strategic policies include maintaining an appropriate asset mix, managing interest rate sensitivity and maintaining an appropriate equity buffer.
Investment results are regularly reviewed.
There is no self investment other than in relevant tracker funds either in the Groups own financial instruments or property or other assets used by the Group.
Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations during the year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m At beginning of year 1,304.6 1,076.7 Acquisition of business 155.1 Disposal of businesses 35.6 0.7 Current service cost 3.4 1.2 Past service cost 0.9 Losses gains on curtailments 0.7 7.0 Interest cost on obligations 54.2 51.4 Remeasurement gains losses demographic 18.5 26.9 Remeasurement losses financial 2.9 80.6 Remeasurement losses gains experience 35.2 17.4 Benefits paid out of plan assets 54.1 49.9 Benefits paid out of Group assets for unfunded plans 4.7 1.8 Currency translation differences 2.0 9.6 At end of year 1,290.1 1,304.6 The defined benefit plan liabilities are 5% 31 December 2012: 6% in respect of active plan participants, 44% 31 December 2012: 45% in respect of deferred plan participants and 51% 31 December 2012: 49% in respect of pensioners.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan liabilities at 31 December 2013 is 15.3 years 31 December 2012: 15.5years.
Melrose Industries PLC 132 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movements in the fair value of plan assets during the year: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m At beginning of year 1,043.3 959.0 Acquisition of business 37.8 Disposal of businesses 25.4 Interest income on plan assets 45.0 45.1 Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 39.7 31.1 Contributions 28.9 31.9 Benefits paid out of plan assets 54.1 49.9 Plan administrative costs 2.8 2.1 Currency translation differences 3.8 9.6 At end of year 1,070.8 1,043.3 1 Restated for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
The actual return on plan assets was a gain of 84.7 million 2012: 76.2 million.
Income Statement disclosures Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of these defined benefit plans are as follows: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Continuing operations 2 Included within headline operating profit: current service cost 3.4 1.1 plan administrative costs 2.8 2.1 past service cost 0.3 Included within net finance costs: interest cost on obligations 53.3 50.1 interest income on plan assets 44.3 43.9 Included within exceptional items: curtailment gain 7.0 Discontinued operations 2 Included within headline operating profit: current service cost 0.1 past service cost 0.6 Included within net finance costs: interest cost on obligations 0.9 1.3 interest income on plan assets 0.7 1.2 Included within exceptional items: curtailment loss 0.7 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9 and for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
Statement of Comprehensive Income disclosures Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of these defined benefit plans are as follows: 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest expense 39.7 31.1 Actuarial gains losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 18.5 26.9 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 2.9 80.6 Actuarial losses gains arising from experience adjustments 35.2 17.4 Net remeasurement gain loss on retirement benefit obligations 20.1 59.0 1 Restated for the adoption of IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits note 1.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 133 Annual Report 2013 Financials Risks and sensitivities The defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, salary risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity specific or plan specific risks.
A sensitivity analysis on the principal assumptions used to measure the plan liabilities at the year end is as follows: Decrease Increase Change in increase to decrease to assumption plan liabilities profit before tax m m Discount rate Increase by 0.10% 18.5 0.6 Decrease by 0.10% 18.8 0.6 1 RPI inflation assumption Increase by 0.10% 11.8 n a Decrease by 0.10% 11.7 n a Assumed life expectancy at age 65 rate of mortality Increase by 1 year 34.5 n a Decrease by 1 year 33.6 n a 1 The RPI inflation sensitivity encompasses the impact on pension increases, where applicable.
The sensitivity analysis above has been determined based on reasonable possible changes to the respective assumptions, while holding all other assumptions constant.
There has been no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis from prior years.
The sensitivities are based on the relevant assumptions and membership profile as at 31 December 2013 and are applied to the obligations at the end of the reporting period.
Whilst the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected, it does provide an approximation to the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
Extrapolation of these results beyond the sensitivity figures shown may not be appropriate and the sensitivity analysis presented may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Financial instruments and risk management The table below sets out the Groups accounting classification of each category of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012: 2 1 2 Restated Restated Restated FKI Elster Central discontinued total m m m m m 31 December 2013 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 200.4 200.4 Net trade receivables 107.6 141.3 0.1 249.0 Derivative financial assets 2.6 0.9 9.7 13.2 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.4 338.8 341.2 Derivative financial liabilities 3.6 1.1 2.5 7.2 Other financial liabilities 125.4 228.4 31.7 385.5 31 December 2012 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 156.5 156.5 Net trade receivables 104.3 141.9 0.1 75.2 321.5 Derivative financial assets 2.7 0.2 0.1 0.3 3.3 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 6.2 1,148.0 1,154.2 Derivative financial liabilities 2.0 0.2 8.2 0.1 10.5 Other financial liabilities 129.5 280.5 33.5 80.5 524.0 1 Restated to include the financial assets and financial liabilities of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
2 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Elster note 12.
Melrose Industries PLC 134 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Credit risk The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk to be as follows: 1 Restated FKI Elster Central discontinued Total m m m m m 31 December 2013 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 200.4 200.4 Trade receivables 107.6 141.3 0.1 249.0 Derivative financial assets 2.6 0.9 9.7 13.2 31 December 2012 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 156.5 156.5 Trade receivables 104.3 141.9 0.1 75.2 321.5 Derivative financial assets 2.7 0.2 0.1 0.3 3.3 1 Restated to include the financial assets of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and derivative financial assets which represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial assets is limited because the counter-parties are banks with strong credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Note 16 provides further details regarding the recovery of trade receivables.
Capital risk The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the Groups net debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 19, after deducting cash and cash equivalents, and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising Issued share capital, Reserves and Retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Liquidity risk The Groups policy for managing liquidity rate risk is set out in the Finance Directors review.
Fair values The Directors consider that the financial assets and liabilities have fair values not materially different to the carrying values.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 135 Annual Report 2013 Financials Foreign exchange contracts As at 31 December 2013, the Group held foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate expected exchange fluctuations on cash flows on sales to customers and purchases from suppliers.
These instruments operate as cash flow hedges unless the amounts involved are small.
The terms of the material currency pairs with total principals in excess of Sterling 1.0 million equivalent are asfollows: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 2013 2012 2012 Selling currency Average hedged Selling currency Average hedged millions rate millions rate Sell Australian Dollar Buy Euro AUD 4.7 EUR AUD 1.27 Sell Australian Dollar Buy Sterling AUD 1.9 GBP AUD 1.76 AUD 4.3 GBP AUD 1.58 Sell Brazilian Real Buy US Dollar BRL 4.3 USD BRL 2.33 Sell Canadian Dollar Buy US Dollar CAD 1.8 USD CAD 1.05 CAD 1.7 USD CAD 1.00 Sell Czech Koruna Buy Euro CZK 77.0 EUR CZK 25.84 Sell Czech Koruna Buy Sterling CZK 188.3 GBP CZK 32.69 Sell Czech Koruna Buy US Dollar CZK 33.9 USD CZK 20.24 Sell Euro Buy Czech Koruna EUR 9.1 EUR CZK 26.1 EUR 7.1 EUR CZK 25.20 Sell Euro Buy Mexican Peso EUR 4.1 EUR MXN 17.01 Sell Euro Buy Polish Zloty EUR 1.8 EUR PLZ 4.09 Sell Euro Buy Russian Ruble EUR 5.5 EUR RUB 45.21 Sell Euro Buy Sterling EUR 33.0 GBP EUR 1.18 EUR 37.4 GBP EUR 1.24 Sell Euro Buy US Dollar EUR 1.5 EUR USD 1.34 EUR 2.7 EUR USD 1.28 Sell Hong Kong Dollar Buy Sterling HKD 16.9 GBP HKD 12.41 Sell Malaysian Ringgit Buy Euro MYR 5.8 EUR MYR 4.00 Sell Malaysian Ringgit Buy US Dollar MYR 5.6 USD MYR 3.11 Sell Norwegian Krone Buy Sterling NOK 54.9 GBP NOK 9.59 NOK 92.3 GBP NOK 9.30 Sell Russian Ruble Buy Euro RUB 70.0 EUR RUB 44.76 Sell Singapore Dollar Buy Sterling SGD 2.1 GBP SGD 1.98 Sell South African Rand Buy Euro ZAR 22.8 EUR ZAR 13.8 ZAR 21.1 EUR ZAR 10.60 Sell South African Rand Buy Sterling ZAR 23.3 GBP ZAR 16.67 ZAR 29.3 GBP ZAR 14.21 Sell Sterling Buy Czech Koruna GBP 43.1 GBP CZK 30.93 GBP 62.1 GBP CZK 30.58 Sell Sterling Buy Euro GBP 53.5 GBP EUR 1.18 GBP 37.0 GBP EUR 1.22 Sell Sterling Buy Singapore Dollar GBP 1.9 GBP SGD 1.97 Sell Sterling Buy US Dollar GBP 11.5 GBP USD 1.57 GBP 3.1 GBP USD 1.61 Sell UAE Dirham Buy Sterling AED 6.8 GBP AED 5.90 Sell US Dollar Buy Canadian Dollar USD 3.7 USD CAD 1.00 Sell US Dollar Buy Czech Koruna USD 4.2 USD CZK 19.38 Sell US Dollar Buy Euro USD 6.1 EUR USD 1.34 USD 5.6 EUR USD 1.22 Sell US Dollar Buy Sterling USD 61.5 GBP USD 1.58 USD 84.5 GBP USD 1.59 The foreign exchange contracts all mature between January 2014 and May 2015.
The fair value of the contracts at 31 December 2013 was a net asset of 0.4 million 31 December 2012: 0.8 million.
Commodity swap contracts The fair value of existing contracts remaining on the Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2013 was nil 31 December 2012: net asset of 0.1 million.
Hedge of net investments in foreign entities At 31 December 2013 the Group held the following amounts which were designated as hedges of net investments in the Groups subsidiaries in the USA and were being used to reduce the exposure to foreign exchange risks.
At 31 December 2013 there were no borrowings in Euros due to the disposal proceeds received in the year which were used to temporarily pay down debt prior to the return of capital in February 2014.
Melrose Industries PLC 136 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Borrowings in local currency: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m US Dollar 144.9 307.8 Euro 281.9 Interest rate sensitivity analysis A one percentage point rise in market interest rates for all currencies would increase decrease profit before tax by the following amounts assuming the net debt as at the Balance Sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
At 31 December 2013 the Group temporarily held excess Sterling and Euro interest rate swaps as a result of paying down all of the debt relating to the revolving credit facilities with the proceeds received from the disposals that occurred in the year.
This position was reversed following the return of capital on 28 February 2014.
Adjusting for this excess position, the sensitivity for Sterling would decrease profit after tax by 0.1 million and by 0.2 million for Euros.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Sterling 2.7 1.0 US Dollar 0.1 0.5 Euro 1.8 0.6 4.4 2.1 Interest rate risk management The Groups policy for managing interest rate risk is set out in the Finance Directors review.
The Group entered 2013 protecting 79% of its gross debt from exposure to changes in interest rates by holding a number of interest rate swaps to fix the interest rate cost on US $560.0 million, 336.8 million and 292.0 million of debt.
During the year the Group closed out several interest rate swap arrangements as a result of the reduction in gross debt following the receipt of proceeds from the business disposals.
As at 31 December 2013 swap arrangements exist which will fix the finance cost on US $246.8 million, 336.8 million and 200.0 million.
Following the capital return on 28 February 2014, 78% of the Groups gross debt is now fixed and the weighted blended fixed finance cost is 0.70% 31 December 2012: 0.84% on US Dollar swaps, 0.72% 31 December 2012: 0.78% on Euro swaps and 0.91% 31 December 2012: 0.91% on Sterling swaps, plus the bank margin which is 2.25%.
The interest rate swaps are designated as cash flow hedges and were highly effective throughout 2013.
The fair value of the contracts at 31 December 2013 was a net asset of 5.6 million 31 December 2012: net liability of 8.1 million.
Foreign currency risk The Groups policy for managing foreign currency risk is set out in the Finance Directors review on page 46.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Currency risks are defined by IFRS 7: Financial instruments: Disclosures as the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial asset or liability will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The following table details the transactional impact of hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date, illustrating the decrease increase in Group operating profit caused by a 10 cent strengthening of the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling and a 10% strengthening of the Czech Koruna against Sterling compared to the year end spot rate.
The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant.
TheGroup operates in a range of different currencies, and those with a material impact are noted here: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m US Dollar 0.8 0.7 Euro 0.5 0.4 Czech Koruna 0.1 0.2 Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 137 Annual Report 2013 Financials The following table details the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date, illustrating the increase decrease in Group equity caused by a 10 cent strengthening of the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling and a 10% strengthening of the Czech Koruna against Sterling.
The high sensitivity in relation to the Euro is because of a currency swap for 235.0 million that was put in place ahead of the year end to temporarily repay Euro debt using a proportion of the disposal proceeds received in the year.
The Euro debt was redrawn ahead of the return of capital on 28 February 2014.
Adjusting for the currency swap, the sensitivity on the Euro is 3.0 million.
The Group operates in a range of different currencies, and those with a material impact are noted here: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m US Dollar 1.5 1.6 Euro 20.8 1.7 Czech Koruna 0.1 In addition, the change in equity due to a 10 cent strengthening of the US Dollar and Euro against Sterling for the translation of net investment hedging instruments would be a decrease of 9.3 million 31 December 2012: 20.2 million and nil 31 December 2012: 24.9 million respectively.
However, there would be no overall effect on equity because there would be an offset in the currency translation of the foreign operation.
Fair value measurements recognised in the Balance Sheet The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the contracts.
The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined using yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
The following table sets out the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured and recognised at fair value: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Recurring fair value measurements m m m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign currency forward contracts 5.1 5.1 3.2 3.2 Commodity swaps 0.1 0.1 Interest rate swaps 8.1 8.1 Total recurring financial assets 5.1 8.1 13.2 3.3 3.3 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign currency forward contracts 4.7 4.7 2.4 2.4 Interest rate swaps 2.5 2.5 4.6 3.5 8.1 Total recurring financial liabilities 7.2 7.2 7.0 3.5 10.5 The fair value of these financial instruments are derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices and they are therefore categorised within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy set out in IFRS 13: Fair value measurement.
The Groups policy is to recognise transfers into and out of the different fair value hierarchy levels at the date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer to occur.
There have been no transfers between levels in the year.
Issued capital and reserves 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Share Capital m m Allotted, called-up and fully paid 1,266,627,036 31 December 2012: 1,266,627,036 Ordinary Shares of 0.1p each 31 December 2012: 0.1p each 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.3 The rights of each class of share are described in the Directors report.
Own shares The Trustee of the Melrose PLC Employee Benefit Trust EBT holds no shares in Melrose Industries PLC at either 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012.
Melrose Industries PLC 138 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Cash flow statement 1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m 2 Reconciliation of headline operating profit to cash generated by continuing operations 2 Headline operating profit from continuing operations 274.9 149.3 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 35.4 18.4 Amortisation of computer software and development costs 5.3 2.1 Restructuring costs paid and movements in other provisions 63.3 57.1 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 252.3 112.7 Decrease in inventories 27.9 12.4 Increase in receivables 1.2 2.4 Decrease in payables 40.2 34.7 Cash generated by operations 238.8 88.0 Tax paid 46.9 28.3 Interest paid 53.2 42.8 Acquisition costs 11.4 25.2 Defined benefit pension contributions paid 32.7 32.3 Incentive scheme payments 3.4 Net cash from used in operating activities from continuing operations 91.2 40.6 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
1 Restated Year ended year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Cash flow from discontinued operations m m Cash generated from discontinued operations 59.6 80.4 Tax paid 13.9 21.1 Defined benefit pension contributions paid 0.9 1.4 Net cash from operating activities from discontinued operations 44.8 57.9 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11.6 17.4 Purchase of computer software 0.1 0.3 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.3 Interest received 0.1 0.1 Net cash used in investing activities from discontinued operations 11.6 17.3 Net movement in borrowing Net cash used in financing activities from discontinued operations 1 Restated to include the results of Truth, Marelli, Crosby, Acco and Harris within discontinued operations note 9.
Net debt reconciliation At Other Foreign At 31 December non-cash exchange 31 December 2012 Cash flow Acquisitions Disposals movements difference 2013 m m m m m m m Cash 156.5 822.8 24.2 888.2 2.7 200.4 Debt due within one year 6.2 5.7 0.5 Debt due after one year 1,148.0 828.3 4.7 16.8 341.2 Net debt 997.7 11.2 24.2 888.2 4.7 13.6 140.8 Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 139 Annual Report 2013 Financials 27.
Commitments and contingencies Future total minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Amounts payable: Within one year 9.3 16.3 After one year but within five years 20.1 33.0 Over five years 28.4 30.9 57.8 80.2 The Group leases properties, plant, machinery and vehicles for operational purposes.
Property leases vary in length up to a period of 25 years.
Plant, machinery and vehicle leases typically run for periods of up to five years.
Capital commitments At 31 December 2013, there were commitments of 13.8 million 31 December 2012: 16.8 million relating to the acquisition of new plant and machinery.
Related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The Group did not enter into any significant transactions in the ordinary course of business with joint ventures during the current or prior year.
Sales to and purchases from Group companies are priced on an arms length basis and generally are settled on 30 day terms.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24: Related party disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration report on page 72.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 m m Short-term employee benefits 3.0 2.7 Share-based payments 2.7 2.5 5.7 5.2 Melrose Industries PLC 140 Annual Report 2013 Financials Notes to the financial statements continued 29.
Post Balance Sheet events At a General Meeting of the Company held on 7 February 2014, shareholders approved a return of capital of 47 pence per OrdinaryShare totalling 595.3 million.
B and C shares with a total value of 595.3 million have been created resulting in a corresponding reduction in the merger reserve.
As the capital return payments are made, either on 28 February 2014, 7 May 2014 or a combination of both, depending upon elections made by shareholders, the B and C shares will be redeemed and 595.3 million will be transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
As a result of the approval of the capital return, on 10 February 2014 the number of Ordinary Shares in issue was consolidated in a ratio of 11 for 13 in order to maintain comparability of the Companys share price before and after the capital return.
On10 February 2014 the number of Ordinary Shares in issue became 1,071,761,339, each with a nominal value of 13 110 pence.
Further details of the capital return are provided on pages 58 and 59 in the Directors report.
Contingent liabilities As a result of the acquisitions of the FKI and Elster businesses, certain contingent legal, environmental, warranty and tax liabilities were identified either at the time of acquisition or as part of the completion of the acquisition accounting.
Whilst it is difficult to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of these claims, the Directors best estimate has been included in the Balance Sheet when they existed at the time of acquisition and hence were recognised in accordance with IFRS 3: Business combinations.
Where a provision has been recognised, information regarding the different categories of such liabilities and the amount and timing of outflows is included within note 20.
The Group has contingent liabilities representing guarantees and contract bonds given in the ordinary course of business on behalf of trading subsidiaries.
No losses are anticipated to arise on these contingent liabilities.
The Group does not have any other significant contingent liabilities.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 141 Annual Report 2013 Financials Company Balance Sheet for Melrose Industries PLC 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Notes m m Fixed assets Investment in subsidiaries 3 2,711.9 2,710.6 2,711.9 2,710.6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Creditors 4 100.8 0.3 Net current liabilities 100.8 0.3 Net assets 2,611.1 2,710.3 Capital and reserves Issued share capital 5 1.3 1.3 Merger reserve 6 1,190.6 1,190.6 Retained earnings 6 1,419.2 1,518.4 Shareholders funds 7 2,611.1 2,710.3 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 5 March 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: Geoffrey Martin Simon Peckham Group Finance Director Chief Executive Registered number: 8243706
