Melrose Industries PLC 146 Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and 13.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion requires your immediate attention.
of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company at which If you are in any doubt as to the accounts are laid.
action you should take, you should 14.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditor of the Company.
That, in accordance with the provisions of section 551 of the solicitor, accountant, fund manager Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Directors be and are or other appropriate independent generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any financial adviser.
security into shares in the Company Rights : If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 422,209: and Melrose Industries PLC the Company, you should send this B comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 document as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or of the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or 844,418 such amount to be reduced by the aggregate transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
nominal amount of any allotments or grants made Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company under paragraph A of this resolution in connection will be held at Barber-Surgeons Hall, Monkwell Square, Wood with an offer by way of rights issue: Street, London, EC2Y 5BL at 11.00 am on 13May 2014 for the i t o ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly following purposes.
Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive will be as may be practicable to their existing holdings: proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 16 to 18 and inclusive as special resolutions.
ii to holders of other equity securities as required by Ordinary resolutions the rights of those securities or, subject to such 1.
To receive the Companys audited financial statements for the rights, as the Directors otherwise financial year ended 31December 2013, together with the considernecessary, Directors report and the auditors report on those a nd so that the Directors may impose any limits or financialstatements.
restrictions and make any arrangements which they 2.
To approve the Directors remuneration report other than the consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury part containing the Directors remuneration policy for the shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, year ended 31December 2013, as set out on pages 70 to 77 regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of of the Companys 2013 Annual Report.
any territory or any othermatter, 3.
To approve the Directors remuneration policy, as set out on such authorities to expire at the conclusion of the Companys pages 77 to 84 of the Companys 2013 Annual Report.
next Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30June 2015, but, in 4.
To declare a final dividend of 5.0p per Ordinary Share for the each case, so that the Company may make offers or year ended 31December 2013. agreements before the authority expires which would or 5.
To re-elect Mr Christopher Miller as a Director of the Company.
might require shares to be allotted, or Rights to be granted, after the authority expires, and so that the Directors may allot 6.
To re-elect Mr David Roper as a Director of the Company.
shares or grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or 7.
To re-elect Mr Simon Peckham as a Director of the Company.
agreement notwithstanding that the authority conferred by this resolution has expired.
To re-elect Mr Geoffrey Martin as a Director of the Company.
T o re-elect Mr Perry Crosthwaite as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr John Grant as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Justin Dowley as a Director of the Company.
To elect Ms Liz Hewitt as a Director of the Company.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 147 Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information Special resolutions C the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary 16.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 15, in accordance Share is not more than the higher of: with the provisions of sections 570 and 573 of the Act, the i 105% of the average of the middle market Directors be and are generally empowered to allot equity quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from securities as defined in section 560 of the Act for cash the Daily Official List of the London Stock pursuant to the authorities granted by resolution 15 as if Exchange for the five business days immediately section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is provided that this power shall be limited: purchased: and A to the allotment of equity securities in connection with ii the higher of the price of the last independent an offer of equity securities but in the case of an trade and the highest current independent bid allotment pursuant to the authority granted under on the trading venue where the purchase is paragraph B of resolution 15, such power shall be carried out, limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer by way of rights issue only : in each case, exclusive of expenses: i t o ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly D this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the as may be practicable to their existing holdings: Companys next Annual General Meeting after this and resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30June 2015: ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject E the Company may make a contract of purchase of to such rights, as the Directors otherwise Ordinary Shares under this authority which would or consider necessary, might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, and may make a purchase of Ordinary a nd so that the Directors may impose any limits or Shares in pursuance of any such contract: and restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury F any Ordinary Shares purchased pursuant to this shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, authority may either be held as treasury shares or regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws cancelled by the Company, depending on which course of any territory or any other matter: and of action is considered by the Directors to be in the best interests of shareholders at the time.
B t o the allotment otherwise than in the circumstances set out in paragraph A of this resolution of equity 18.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting securities pursuant to the authority granted by may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
paragraph A of resolution 15 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 63,331, Recommendation The Board believes that each of the resolutions to be proposed such power to expire at the conclusion of the Companys at the Annual General Meeting is in the best interests of the next Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30June 2015, but so Directors unanimously recommend that ordinary shareholders that the Company may make offers or agreements before the vote in favour of all of the resolutions proposed, as the Directors power expires, which would or might require equity securities intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
to be allotted after the power expires and so that the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such By order of the Board offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power conferred by this authority has expired.
That the Company be and is generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases as defined in section 693 of the Act of Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company provided that: Adam Westley Company Secretary A the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares 4April 2014 authorised to be purchased is 107,176,133: Registered Office: B the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary 11th Floor Colmore Plaza Share shall not be less than the nominal value of an 20 Colmore Circus Queensway Ordinary Share at the time of such purchase: Birmingham West Midlands B4 6AT Melrose Industries PLC 148 Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Explanatory notes to the proposed resolutions The Directors Remuneration Report other than the part Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive are proposed as ordinary containing the Directors remuneration policy is subject to resolutions, which means that for each of those resolutions to an annual advisory shareholder vote by way of an ordinary be passed, more than half the votes cast must be cast in favour resolution: Resolution 2 is to approve the Directors of the resolution.
Resolutions 16 to 18 inclusive are proposed Remuneration Report other than the part containing as special resolutions, which means that for each of those the Directors remuneration policy.
resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes The Directors remuneration policy is subject to a binding cast must be cast in favour of the resolution.
shareholder vote by way of an ordinary resolution, at least Resolution 1 Receipt of 2013 Annual Report and once every three years: Resolution 3 is to approve the Directors financial statements remuneration policy.
The Directors remuneration policy will, The Directors are required to lay the Companys financial subject to shareholder approval, take effect from the conclusion statements and the Directors and auditors reports on those of the AGM.
Payments including payments for loss of office financial statements collectively, the Annual Report before willcontinue to be made to the current and any former Directors shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
in line with existing contractual arrangements until this time.
Resolutions 2 and 3 Approval of Directors remuneration Once the Directors remuneration policy takes effect, all report and Directors remuneration policy remuneration payments and payments for loss of office made by Following changes to the Act and in line with new regulations the Company to the current and any former Directors must be which came into effect on 1October 2013, the Directors consistent with the Directors remuneration policy or, if inconsistent remuneration report the Directors Remuneration Report is with the Directors remuneration policy, must have been separately now presented in three sections: approved by way of an ordinary resolution of the shareholders in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Act.
the annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: If the Directors remuneration policy is approved and remains unchanged, it will be valid for up to three years without a new the annual report on remuneration: and shareholder approval.
If the Company wishes to change the the Directors remuneration policy.
Directors remuneration policy, it must first seek the approval ofthe proposed revised Directors remuneration policy from The annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration theshareholders before it can implement the proposed new Committee, set out on pages 70 and 71 of the 2013 Annual Directors remuneration policy.
Report, summarises, for the year ended 31December 2013, themajor decisions taken on Directors remuneration, any If the Directors remuneration policy is not approved for any substantial changes relating to Directors remuneration made reason, the Company will, if and to the extent permitted by the during the year and the context in which those changes Act, continue to make payments including payments for loss occurredand decisions that have been taken.
of office to the current and any former Directors in accordance with existing contractual arrangements and will seek the approval The annual report on remuneration, set out on pages 72 to 77 of a proposed revised Directors remuneration policy from the ofthe 2013 Annual Report, provides details of the remuneration shareholders as soon as practicable.
paid to Directors in respect of the year ended 31December 2013, including base salary, taxable benefits, short-term Resolution 4 Declaration of final dividend incentives including percentage deferred, long-term incentives The Board is recommending, and the shareholders are being vested in the year, pension-related benefits, any other items in asked to approve, the declaration of a final dividend of 5.0 pence thenature of remuneration and any sum s recovered or withheld per Ordinary Share for the year ended 31December 2013. during the year in respect of amounts paid in earlier years.
Thefinal dividend will, subject to shareholder approval, be paid on 15May 2014 to the holders of Ordinary Shares whose names The Directors remuneration policy, set out on pages 77 to 84 are recorded on the register of members of the Company at the ofthe 2013 Annual Report, provides details of the Companys close of business on 22April 2014. proposed policy on Directors remuneration including the proposed policy on payments for loss of office.
Resolutions 5 to 11 inclusive Re-election of Directors In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the Companys articles of association the Articles, every Director other than Senior non-executive Director, MilesTempleman, who will retire at the conclusion of the AGM and willnot stand for re-election and LizHewitt, who is standing forelection will stand for re-election at the AGM.
Biographical details of each Director can be found on pages 56 and 57 of the 2013 Annual Report.
All of the non-executive Directors standing for re-election are considered independent under the Code.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 149 Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information Resolution 12 Election of a Director Resolution 16 Partial disapplication of pre-emption rights In accordance with the Articles, Liz Hewitt is standing for This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Directors electionas a Director of the Company following her appointment the power to allot equity securities of the Company pursuant to to the Board on 8October 2013.
She is currently a non-executive sections 570 and 573 of the Act the Section 570 and 573 Director of Novo Nordisk A S and Synergy Health plc and is power without first offering them to existing shareholders in anexternal member of the House of Lords Audit Committee.
proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Biographical details for Liz Hewitt can be found on page 57 of The power is limited to allotments for cash in connection the 2013 Annual Report.
with pre-emptive offers, subject to any arrangements that Resolution 13 Re-appointment of auditor the Directors consider appropriate to deal with fractions and The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general overseas requirements and otherwise for cash up to a maximum meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders, to hold nominal value of 63,331, representing approximately 5% of the office until the next such meeting.
Companys issued Ordinary Share capital as at 4April 2014, which is in accordance with the relevant guidelines for The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness, theCompany.
performance, independence and objectivity of the existing external auditor, Deloitte LLP, on behalf of the Board, and If approved, the Section 570 and 573 power shall apply until the concluded that the external auditor was in all respects effective.
end of the Companys next AGM after the resolution is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30June 2015.
The This resolution proposes the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP until exception to this is that the Directors may allot equity securities the conclusion of the next AGM.
after the power has expired in connection with an offer or Resolution 14 Authority to agree auditors remuneration agreement made or entered into before the power expired.
This resolution authorises the Directors, in accordance with The Directors have no present intention to exercise the standard practice, to negotiate and agree the remuneration of Section 570 and 573 power.
In practice, the Audit Committee will consider and Resolution 17 Authority to purchase own shares approve the remuneration of the auditor on behalf of the Board.
This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Company Resolution 15 Authority to allot shares the authority to purchase its own shares pursuant to sections This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Directors 693 and 701 of the Act.
the authority to allot shares in the Company, or to grant rights to This authority is limited to an aggregate maximum number of subscribe for or convert any securities into shares in the 107,176,133 Ordinary Shares, representing 10% of the Companys Company Rights pursuant to section 551 of the Act the issued Ordinary Share capital as at 4April 2014.
The authority contained in paragraph A of the resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal amount The maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share will of 422,209, being approximately one-third of the Companys be an amount which is not more than the higher of i 5% above issued Ordinary Share capital as at 4April 2014. the average of the middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the paragraph B of this resolution would give the Directors authority day on which the Ordinary Share is purchased: and ii the higher to allot shares in the Company or grant Rights in connection with of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current a rights issue up to aggregate nominal amount of 844,418, independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued carried out in each case, exclusive of expenses.
Ordinary Share capital as at 4April 2014, as reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of any allotments or grants under If approved, the authority shall, unless varied, revoked or renewed, paragraph A of this resolution.
expire at the end of the Companys next AGM after the resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30June 2015.
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising all or any of If approved, the Section 551 authority shall, unless renewed, the powers conferred by this resolution and will only exercise their revoked or varied by the Company, expire at the end of the authority if it is in the interests of shareholders generally.
Companys next AGM after the resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30June 2015.
The exception to this is that the Directors may allot shares or grant Rights after the authority has expired in connection with an offer or agreement made or entered into before the authority expired.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise the Section 551 authority.
Melrose Industries PLC 150 Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolution 18 Notice period for general meetings other 4.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General than AGMs Meeting and for the purposes of the determination by the This resolution seeks shareholder approval to allow the Company Company of the number of votes they may cast, members to continue to call general meetings other than AGMs on must be entered on the Companys register of members by 14clear days notice.
In accordance with the Companies 6.00pm on 9May 2014 or, in the event of an adjournment, on Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009, the notice period the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned required for general meetings of the Company is 21 days unless meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after shareholders approve a shorter notice period subject to a this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any minimum period of 14 clear days.
AGMs will continue to be held person to attend or vote at the meeting.
on at least 21 clear days notice.
As at 4April 2014, the Companys issued share capital The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, consists of 1,071,761,339 Ordinary Shares of 13 110 pence when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
In each, carrying one vote each, 15,759,880 B shares of accordance with the Act, the Company must make a means of 47pence each, with limited voting rights and 757,503,886 C electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting in Deferred shares of 0.00001 pence each, without voting rights.
order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies days notice.
through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Explanatory notes as to the proxy, voting and attendance Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST procedures at the Annual General Meeting sponsored members, and those CREST members who have 1.
The holders of Ordinary Shares in the Company are entitled appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST to attend the Annual General Meeting and are entitled to vote.
sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy to the appropriate action on their behalf.
exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting of the Company.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for 2.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
To be effective, a such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available form of proxy must be completed and returned, together with via www.
The message, regardless of any power of attorney or authority under which it is completed whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an or a certified copy of such power or authority, so that it is amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed received by the Companys registrars at the address specified proxy, must in order to be valid be transmitted so as to be on the form of proxy not less than 48 hours excluding any part received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.00am on 9May of a day that is not a working day before the stated time for 2014.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be holding the meeting.
Returning a completed form of proxy will the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting message by the CREST Application Host from which the in person.
issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to 3.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information any change of instructions to proxies appointed through rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement CREST should be communicated to the appointee through between him and the shareholder by whom he was other means.
nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in paragraphs 1 and 2 can only be exercised by ordinary shareholders of the Company.
Strategic Report Governance Financials Shareholder information Melrose Industries PLC 151 Annual Report 2013 Shareholder information 8.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 13.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special 14.
You may not use an electronic address provided in either this procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related documents system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to including the Proxy Form to communicate with the Company the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member, or sponsored member, 15.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his Companys registered office during normal business hours CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in A copies of all service agreements under which particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning Directors of the Company are employed by the practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
Company or any subsidiaries: and 9.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction B a copy of the terms of appointment of the nonin the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the executive Directors of the Company.
You may register your vote online by visiting Equinitis website 10.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more at www.
In order to register your vote online, corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all you will need to enter the Task ID, together with your Voting ID of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in and Shareholder Reference Number which are set out on the relation to the same shares.
The return of the Proxy Form by post or 11.
Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the registering your vote online will not prevent you from attending threshold requirements set out in that section have the right the Annual General Meeting and voting in person, should you to require the Company to publish on a website a statement wish.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint Companys accounts including the auditors report and the their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual at www.
co. uk and click on the link to vote.
General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an The on-screen instructions give details on how to complete auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the the appointment process.
A proxy appointment made previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company those provided or if received after 11.00 am on 9May 2014. may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on a website.
Any member holding Ordinary Shares attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any such questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
