Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 SECTION 6 OTHER NOTES 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013 6.1 Investments Accounting policy Joint ventures Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expenses of joint ventures on an equity accounted basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
Investments 2013 2012 m m Other 3 - 3 - Investment in joint ventures 2013 2012 m m At beginning of year - 1 Effect of movements in foreign exchange - 1 At end of year - - Other In November 2013 the Group acquired 16,350,300 shares in IDR Resorts Sdn.
IDR for the consideration of 3 million.
of the outstanding share capital of IDR.
IDR is accounted for at fair value and is not consolidated.
6.2 Employee benefits Accounting policies Defined contribution pension schemes In the case of defined contribution schemes, the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate fund on behalf of the employee and has no further obligations to employees.
The risks and rewards associated with this type of scheme are assumed by the members rather than the employer.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement as incurred.
Defined benefit pension schemes A defined benefit scheme is a post-employment benefit scheme other than a defined contribution scheme.
The Groups net obligation is calculated for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value and offset by the fair value of any scheme assets.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period they occur directly in equity through other comprehensive income.
Defined contribution pension schemes The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes and the total expense relating to those schemes in the current year was 10 million 2012: 8 million.
