Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 SECTION 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013 1.1 Basis of preparation Merlin Entertainments plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and its registered office is 3 Market Close, Poole, Dorset, BH15 1NQ.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
The accounting policies set out in the sections below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and have been applied consistently by all subsidiaries and joint ventures.
The Group prepares its annual consolidated financial statements on a 52 or 53 week basis.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013 2012: 52 weeks ended 29 December 2012.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and certain investments measured at their fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling.
The functional currency of the Company is Sterling.
All values are stated in million m except where otherwise indicated.
Going concern The Group continues to trade profitably reporting a profit for the year of 145 million 2012: 76 million and continues to generate cash with operating cash inflows of 365 million 2012: 348 million.
As highlighted in note 5.2, the Group is funded by a bank loan facility, the maturity of which was extended in the year to 2019.
The Groups forecasts show that it will be able to operate within the terms of that facility.
After reviewing the Groups cash flow forecasts and trading budgets and making appropriate enquiries, the Directors believe the Group to be operationally and financially robust and that it will generate sufficient cash to meet its borrowing requirements for the next twelve months.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
Basis of consolidation On 12 November 2013 the entire share capital of the Groups previous parent company, Merlin Entertainments S. r. l. was acquired by Merlin Entertainments plc funded by an issue of the equity instruments of Merlin Entertainments plc in exchange for these instruments.
There were no changes in rights or proportions of control in the Group as a result of this transaction.
Whilst the equity instruments of Merlin Entertainments S. r. l. were legally acquired, in substance the Directors have determined that Merlin Entertainments S. r. l. is the accounting acquirer of Merlin Entertainments plc.
As such, this transaction has been accounted for as a reverse acquisition.
Accordingly, these financial statements are issued in the name of the new legal parent, Merlin Entertainments plc, but are a continuation of the financial statements of Merlin Entertainments S. r. l. In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3: Business Combinations, the financial statements of Merlin Entertainments S. r. l. including comparative information, have been retroactively adjusted to transfer 1,230 million from share premium to capital reserve to reflect the legal capital position of Merlin Entertainments plc as shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
No other adjustments have arisen in respect of this reverse acquisition.
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Merlin Entertainments plc and its subsidiaries and branches at the end of each reporting period and include its share of its joint ventures results using the equity method.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated.
Where subsidiaries enter into financial guarantee contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other companies within the Group, these are considered to be insurance arrangements and accounted for as such.
In this respect, the subsidiary concerned treats the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time as it becomes probable that it will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
90 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 SECTION 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013 1.1 Basis of preparation continued Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying net investment hedges.
The results and financial position of those Group companies that do not have a Sterling functional currency are translated into Sterling as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the end of the reporting period.
Income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates during the year.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised in equity in the translation reserve.
Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group Financial instruments often consist of a combination of debt and equity and the Group has to decide how to attribute values to each.
They are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: i they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group: and ii where the instrument will or may be settled in the Groups own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Groups own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Group exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability, and where such an instrument takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance costs.
Finance payments associated with financial instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
Judgements and estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Groups accounting policies.
It also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
On an ongoing basis the following areas involve a higher degree of judgement or complexity and are explained in more detail in the related notes: Recognition of deferred tax assets note 2.3.
During the year the following specific item also involved a higher degree of judgement or complexity: Accounting for the Groups amendment to its financing facilities note 5.2.
New standards and interpretations A full list of new accounting standards and interpretations that have been implemented in the year or will be implemented next year, and which have no significant impact, can be found in note 6.5.
