Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 SECTION 5 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013 5.4 Derivative financial instruments Accounting policies The Group holds derivative financial instruments primarily to hedge its foreign currency and interest rate exposures.
Interest rate swaps, foreign exchange contracts and committed share issues Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value and attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Thereafter changes in fair value are recognised immediately in the income statement, except where the Group adopts hedge accounting as described below.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by reference to market rates at the end of the accounting period.
It is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to exit the swap at the end of the reporting period, taking into account current interest rates, credit risks and bid ask spreads.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is the present value of future cash flows and is determined by reference to market rates at the end of the accounting period.
Hedge accounting The Group has designated certain derivatives as hedges against variable cash flows resulting from fluctuations in interest rates.
On initial designation of the hedge, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and hedged items, including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking the hedge transaction, and the methods that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship.
The Group makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis, as to whether the hedging instruments are expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in the fair value or cash flows of the respective hedged items during the period for which the hedge is designated, and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range of 80-125 per cent.
Effectiveness testing is performed using regression analysis at inception and on a regular basis thereafter.
The effective portion of changes in fair value of the derivative is recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
Any ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The amount recognised in other comprehensive income is removed and included in profit or loss in the same period as the hedged cash flows affect profit or loss, and under the same line item in the statement of comprehensive income as the hedged item.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, cumulative gains or losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income would be recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Other financial assets 2013 2012 m m Derivative financial instruments Hedge accounted interest rate swaps 4 - Non-hedge accounted interest rate swaps 1 - Non-hedge accounted foreign exchange contracts 1 - 6 - Other financial liabilities 2013 2012 m m Derivative financial instruments Hedge accounted interest rate swaps 8 8 Non-hedge accounted interest rate swaps 1 55 9 63 The Groups exposure to interest rate, liquidity, foreign currency and credit risks is disclosed in note 5.6.
