Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Directors responsibility statement Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Remuneration Committee and the Health, Safety and Security and the Group and parent Company financial statements in Committee as well as from its legal and other professional accordance with applicable law and regulations.
advisers, the Board considers the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent understandable and that it provides the information necessary Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in business model and strategy.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law.
They have elected to prepare the parent Company financial Neither the Company nor the Directors accept and hereby statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting excludes any liability to any person in relation to this Report principles in the UK UK GAAP.
Under company law the Directors except to the extent that such liability is imposed by law and must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied may not be validly excluded.
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Group The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge that: for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: The consolidated financial statements contained in this Report which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Select suitable accounting policies and then apply adopted by the EU, when taken as a whole, give a true and them consistently.
fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The parent Company financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with applicable UK Accounting For the Group financial statements, state whether they have Standards, give a true and fair view of the state of affairs been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
For the parent Company financial statements, state whether The Directors Report and the other sections of this Report applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, referred to therein together represent a fair review of the subject to any material departures disclosed and explained strategy, development and performance of the business and the in the parent Company financial statements.
position of the Group together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Nick Varney Andrew Carr records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 26 February 2014 26 February 2014 at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
