Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT The LCA defines an inappropriate party as any person or On 24 February 2014 the Company announced a strategic entity other than a financial institution where one third of its alliance with DreamWorks to launch a new midway brand.
revenue is derived from the manufacture and sale of tobacco, This will see an initial roll out programme of six attractions armaments and or pornographic material.
over nine years in international city locations.
The Relationship Agreements with KIRKBI, Blackstone and Going concern CVC respectively, each contain provisions allowing KIRKBI, The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial Blackstone or CVC as the case may be to terminate the resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and relevant Relationship Agreement with immediate effect by that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis written notice to the Company on any person acquiring in preparing the financial statements.
control of the Company being 50 per cent.
of the voting rights of the Company.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient The Senior Facilities Agreement entered into by the Group borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to with Unicredit Group as facility agent, originally dated 4 March be available to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
2007 and amended and restated on 28 June 2013 SFA includes provisions in relation to a change of control or the Audit information sale of all or substantially all of the Groups assets, the So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit occurrence of which will give the lenders under the SFA the information of which the auditors are unaware.
The Directors right to accelerate outstanding loans, terminate commitments have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant and enforce their security.
Further details on the Groups audit information and ensure the auditors are aware of banking facilities are shown in note 5.2 of the such information.
Re-appointment of auditors The Company does not have agreements with any Director or As recommended by the Audit Committee, a resolution for the employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors to the Company will be employment resulting from a change of control.
proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Branches outside the UK Approval of annual report The Company has no branches outside the UK.
The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement and Report, and the Directors Report were approved by the Board Dividend on 26 February 2014.
The Directors are not proposing to recommend any dividend in respect of the 2013 financial year.
For and on behalf of the Board Political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Subsequent events Colin N. Armstrong In the Companys IPO Prospectus the Company noted its Group Company Secretary intention to reduce its share capital by means of a court 26 February 2014 sanctioned reduction of capital.
The final court hearing to formally approve the proposed reduction is scheduled to take place on 26 February 2014.
If the reduction is approved, the effect will be to increase available reserves for distribution by way of dividends to shareholders in the amount of 3,183 million.
