Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Share listing Registered in The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
England and Wales Share register and registrars Company number The Companys share register is maintained and administered in the 08700412 UK by Computershare Investor Services PLC at the address set out below.
EPIC TIDM MERL Computershare operates a portfolio service for Merlin shareholders called Investor Centre.
This provides our shareholders ISIN with online access to information about their investments as well as GB00BDZT6P94 a facility to help manage their holdings online, such as being able to: Registered office i update dividend mandate bank instructions and review Merlin Entertainments plc dividend payment history: 3 Market Close ii update member details and address changes: and Poole iii register to receive Company communications electronically.
Dorset BH15 1NQ Computershare also offers an internet and telephone share dealing United Kingdom service to existing shareholders which can also be accessed through the Investor Centre.
biz Investor Centre can be accessed at www.
biz Dividends Company secretary No dividends have been or will be recommended or declared for Colin N. Armstrong the year ended 28 December 2013.
Investor relations director Financial calendar Alistair Windybank The principal dates in our financial calendar for 2014 are as follows: External auditors Preliminary Announcement of Results 27 February KPMG LLP Q2 Interim Management Statement 15 May Dukes Keep AGM 15 May Marsh Lane Interim Results 31 July Southampton Q3 Interim Management Statement 18 September SO14 3EX Pre-close Trading Update 2 December United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0 23 8020 2000 Shareholder communications We would encourage our shareholders to receive their Joint Corporate Brokers communications from the Company electronically using email and Barclays Bank PLC Citigroup Global Markets Limited web-based communications.
This means that information about the 5 North Colonnade Citigroup Centre Company can be received as soon as it is available.
The use of Canary Wharf Canada Square electronic communications also reduces costs and the impact on London Canary Wharf the environment.
Shareholders can register for electronic E14 4BB London communications through Investor Centre or by E14 5LB contacting Computershare.
Registrars Shareholders with any queries regarding their shareholding should Computershare Investor Services PLC contact Computershare.
The Pavilions Bridgwater Road The Investor Relations section of our corporate website also Bristol contains information which shareholders may find helpful BS99 6ZZ see www.
Telephone: 44 0 870 703 6259 AGM Investor Centre: www.
co. uk contactus The first AGM of the Company will be held on 15 May 2014 Website: www.
com at Lake View, Thorpe Park Resort, Staines Road, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 8PN at 11.00am.
The Notice of AGM will be sent to shareholders separately.
