Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 NOTES TO MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS i Accounting policies These parent Company financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis using the historical cost convention in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the UK UK GAAP and the Companies Act 2006.
The financial period reported represents the period from incorporation of the Company on 20 September 2013 to 28 December 2013.
The Directors have taken advantage of the exemption available under s408 of the Companies Act 2006 and have not presented a profit and loss account of the Company.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 1 Cash Flow Statements and has not presented a cash flow statement.
The cash flows of the Company are included in the consolidated financial statements of Merlin Entertainments plc.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 8 Related Party Transactions from disclosing transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries that are part of the group headed by Merlin Entertainments plc.
A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies is set out below.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less provision for impairment.
The carrying amount of the Companys investments in subsidiaries is reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists the investments recoverable amount is estimated.
If the carrying value of the investment exceeds the recoverable amount, the investment is considered to be impaired and is written down to the recoverable amount.
The impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Share-based payments The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the date of grant using the binomial valuation methodology.
The resulting cost is charged to the parent company profit and loss account over the vesting period of the schemes.
The value of the charge is adjusted to reflect the actual and expected levels of vesting of the schemes.
Where the Company awards options to employees of subsidiary companies, this is treated as a capital contribution.
Debtors Debtors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial instruments and equity liabilities are classified according to the substance of the arrangements that have been entered into.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the proceeds received net of the direct costs of issuance.
Taxation Corporation tax is provided on the taxable profit for the period, using the tax rates that have been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date and would give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
After considering forecast future profits, deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which those assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on the tax rates that have been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
