Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 SECTION 5 CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND FINANCING 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013 5.1 Net debt Analysis of net debt Net debt is the total amount of cash and cash equivalents less interest-bearing loans and borrowings and finance lease liabilities.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits and other short term liquid investments such as money market funds which are subject to an insignificant risk of a change in value.
2013 2012 m m 264 142 Cash and cash equivalents Interest-bearing loans and borrowings note 5.2 1,185 1,337 Net bank debt 921 1,195 Current finance leases note 5.3 - - Non-current finance leases note 5.3 85 84 1,006 1,279 Net debt Restricted funds of 6 million 2012: 6 million are included in cash and cash equivalents.
5.2 Borrowings Accounting policy Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, being consideration received less any directly attributable transaction costs.
Thereafter, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
To calculate this effective interest rate the Group estimates the expected future gearing during the life of the facility based on the Groups business plans and forecasts, and expected future interest rates.
This includes the amortisation of all transaction costs over the same period.
The Group assesses whether the terms of the borrowings provide a clear commercial incentive or a contractual commitment to repay them over a specific period that is shorter than the contractual life of the facility, or if the Groups current plans or forecasts suggest an early repayment or refinancing is probable.
If this is the case the Group will adopt that as the period used for the purposes of the effective interest rate calculations.
If neither of these conditions exists the Group calculates its effective interest rate and hence amortises transaction costs based on the contractual term of the facility.
If the Group modifies its debt arrangements, it considers how substantive the change is in determining the appropriate accounting.
This includes both qualitative analysis, and quantitative analysis of the level of change in the cash flows of the new and old arrangements.
