Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 SECTION 4 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013 4.2 Goodwill and intangible assets continued Brands The Group has valued the following acquired brands, all with indefinite useful economic lives.
They are all denominated in their relevant local currencies and therefore the carrying value is subject to movements in the underlying exchange rates.
2013 2012 m m Midway Attractions Madame Tussauds 26 26 SEA LIFE 16 16 London Eye 10 10 Other 8 8 60 60 Resort Theme Parks Gardaland Resort 48 47 Alton Towers Resort 32 32 Thorpe Park 15 15 Heide Park 12 12 Other 12 12 119 118 179 178 The Madame Tussauds brand value is predominantly related to the London attraction but includes value identified with the Groups other Madame Tussauds attractions.
The SEA LIFE brand is related to the Groups portfolio of SEA LIFE attractions including aquariums in London and Sydney.
The London Eye, Gardaland Resort, Alton Towers Resort, Thorpe Park and Heide Park brands all arise from those specific visitor attractions.
4.3 Impairment testing Accounting policies The carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill, intangible assets and PPE are reviewed annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists or if the asset has an indefinite life, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The process of impairment testing is to estimate the recoverable amount of the assets concerned, and recognise an impairment loss whenever the carrying amount of those assets exceeds the recoverable amount.
The level at which the assets concerned are reviewed varies as follows: Asset Goodwill Goodwill is reviewed at an Operating Group level, being the relevant grouping of cash-generating units CGUs at which the benefit of such goodwill arises.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates largely independent cash inflows, being the Groups individual attractions.
Brands Brands are reviewed individually.
PPE PPE is reviewed at an attraction level.
107 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 SECTION 4 OPERATING ASSETS AND LIABILITIES continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013 4.3 Impairment testing continued For assets that do not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to which the assets belong.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
They are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of goodwill, and then to reduce the carrying amount of other intangible assets and other assets on a pro rata basis.
Calculation of recoverable amount Management judge the recoverable amount of an asset as the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
To assess value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
The Group uses a multiple of EBITDA to estimate fair value.
This multiple is based on the Groups average market capitalisation as a multiple of the Groups underlying EBITDA.
The Groups internally approved five year business plans are used as the basis for these calculations, with cash flows beyond the five year business plan horizon then extrapolated using a long term growth rate.
Common assumptions have been adopted for the purpose of testing goodwill across the business and for testing brand values as their risk profiles are similar.
The key assumptions and estimates used when calculating the net present value of future cash flows from the Groups businesses are as follows: Estimate Future cash flows Assumed to be equivalent to the operating cash flows of the businesses less the cash flows in respect of capital expenditure.
The Group uses EBITDA as a proxy for the operating cash flows of its attractions as they are not significantly impacted by movements in working capital.
Growth in EBITDA Visitor numbers and revenue projections are based on market analysis, including the total available market, historic trends, competition and site development activity, both in terms of capital expenditure on rides and attractions as well as marketing activity.
Operating costs projections are based on historical data, adjusted for variations in visitor numbers and planned expansion of site activities as well as general market conditions.
Timing and quantum of future capital Projections are based on the attractions long term development plans, taking into account the and maintenance expenditure capital investment necessary to maintain and sustain the performance of the attractions assets.
Long term growth rates A growth rate of 2.5 per cent.
was determined based on managements long term expectations, taking account of historical averages and future expected trends in both market development and market share growth.
Discount rates to reflect the risks Based on the estimated weighted average cost of capital of a market participant within the involved main geographical regions where the Group operates, these are drawn from market data and businesses in similar sectors, and adjusted for asset specific risks.
The key assumptions of the market participant include the ratio of debt to equity financing, risk free rates and the medium term risks associated with equity investments.
Net present values are calculated using an appropriate pre-tax discount rate of between nine per cent.
derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital of between seven per cent.
Projecting future growth involves a degree of judgement and uncertainty.
The Group operates in geographically and politically diverse areas and although the Group has attained knowledge from the past performance of opening new attractions, inevitably the performance of new attractions, particularly in new markets, can be difficult to accurately predict.
Similarly, the exposure of certain attractions to macro-economic volatility can give rise to uncertainties in these projections.
The Directors consider that no reasonably foreseeable change in any of the above key assumptions, in particular the discount rate and growth rate assumptions used, would significantly alter the outcome of the Groups impairment testing.
