Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 SECTION 6 OTHER NOTES continued 52 weeks ended 28 December 2013 6.5 New standards and interpretations The following standards and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB or the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee, have been adopted by the Group with no significant impact on its consolidated financial statements: IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of items of other comprehensive income.
IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of financial statements - comparative information beyond minimum requirements and presentation of the opening statement of financial position and related notes.
IAS 16 Amendment Property, plant and equipment - classification of servicing equipment.
IAS 32 Amendment Financial instruments: presentation - income tax consequences of distributions.
IAS 34 Amendment Interim financial reporting - segment assets and liabilities.
IAS 19 Amendment Defined benefit plans.
IFRS 7 Amendment Financial instruments: disclosures - offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
EU endorsed IFRS and interpretations with effective dates after 28 December 2013 relevant to the Group will be implemented in the financial year when the standards become effective.
The IASB has issued the following standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that will be effective for the Group as from 1 January 2014 or after.
The Group does not expect any significant impact on its consolidated financial statements from these amendments.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities.
IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures.
IAS 32 Amendment Financial instruments: presentation - offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
6.6 Ultimate parent company information The largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by Merlin Entertainments plc, incorporated in the United Kingdom.
No other group financial statements include the results of the Company.
6.7 Subsequent events In the Companys IPO Prospectus the Company noted its intention to reduce its share capital by means of a court sanctioned reduction of capital.
The final court hearing to formally approve the proposed reduction is scheduled to take place on 26 February 2014.
If the reduction is approved, the effect will be to increase available reserves for distribution by way of dividends to shareholders in the amount of 3,183 million.
On 24 February 2014 the Company announced a strategic alliance with DreamWorks to launch a new midway brand.
This will see an initial roll out programme of six attractions over nine years in international city locations.
