CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM Special Business a the allotment of equity securities in connection with an The Board consider that all the proposals to be considered at Michael Page International plc the Company offer of securities in favour of the holders of ordinary the Annual General Meeting are likely to promote the success To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions, of Registered in England and Wales No.
03310225 shares on the register of members at such record date as of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company which 14 and 15 will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and 16, the Directors may determine where the equity securities and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR 17 and 18 will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
respectively attributable to the interests of the ordinary recommend that you vote in favour of the Resolutions as IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the 14.
Ordinary Resolution Authority to Allot Shares Note 10 shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings action you should take, you are recommended to seek your practicable to the respective numbers of ordinary shares which amount to 2,300,236 shares representing 0.72% of the own independent financial advice from a stockbroker, bank THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and held or deemed to be held by them on any such record existing issued share capital of the Company.
manager, solicitor, accountant, or other financial adviser unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of date, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers By order of the Board the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or Elaine Marriner rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares the Company, please send this document, together with the practical problems arising under the laws of any overseas in the Company Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount Company Secretary Michael Page International plc accompanying documents but not the personalised Form of territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or of 1,071,452, provided that this authority, shall expire at the Proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or by depositary receipts or any other matter: and Page House, or, if earlier, on 5 September 2015, save that the Company shall transfer was effected, for delivery to the purchaser or transferee.
1 Dashwood Lang Road, be entitled to make offers or agreements before the expiry of b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph The Bourne Business Park, such authority which would or might require shares to be allotted a of this Resolution 16 to any person or persons of Annual General Meeting Addlestone, or Rights to be granted after such expiry and the Directors shall equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of Weybridge, be entitled to allot shares and grant Rights pursuant to any such 160,717, and shall expire upon the expiry of the general Notice of Meeting Surrey KT15 2QW offer or agreement as if this authority had not expired: and all authority conferred by Resolution 14 above, save that the NOTICE is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of the unexercised authorities previously granted to the Directors to allot Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements Registered in England No.
03310225 Company will be held at Page House, 1 Dashwood Lang Road, shares and grant Rights be and are hereby revoked.
before the expiry of such power which would or might 8 April 2014 The Bourne Business Park, Addlestone, Weybridge, Surrey require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry 15.
Ordinary Resolution Donations to Political Organisations and KT15 2QW on Thursday 5 June 2014 at 12.00 noon for the and the Directors shall be entitled to allot equity securities Political Expenditure Note 11 Notes following purposes: pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the power THAT in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Act the conferred hereby had not expired.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual Ordinary Business Company, and all companies that are subsidiaries of the Company General Meeting the Meeting may appoint another 17.
Special Resolution Power to Buy Back Shares in the As ordinary business to consider, and if thought fit, pass at the date on which this Resolution 15 is passed or during the person s who need not be a member of the Company to Market Note 13 Resolutions 1 to 13 inclusive, which will be proposed as period when this Resolution 15 has effect, be generally and exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote Ordinary Resolutions: unconditionally authorised to: THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each proxy 1.
T o receive and consider the Directors and Auditors a make political donations to political parties or independent section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 1p each of the is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different Reports and the Statement of Accounts for the year ended election candidates as defined in the Act, not exceeding Company on such terms and in such manner as the Directors shares held by him.
Your proxy will vote as you instruct 31 December 2013.
25,000 in total: may from time to time determine, provided that: and must attend the Meeting for your vote to be counted.
T o approve the Directors Remuneration Report, other than b make political donations to political or ganisations other than Details of how to appoint the Chairman or another person a the maximum number of or dinary shares hereby the Directors Remuneration Policy, in the form set out in the political parties, as defined in the Act, not exceeding 25,000 as your proxy using the Form of Proxy are set out in the authorised to be acquired is 32,143,569 representing 10% Companys Annual Report and Accounts, for the year ended in total: and notes to the Form of Proxy.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2013.
Note 8 c incur political expenditur e, as defined in the Act, not 8 April 2014: 2.
Appointing a pr oxy does not preclude you from 3.
T o approve the Directors Remuneration Policy in the form set exceeding 25,000 in total: attending the Meeting and voting in person.
If you attend b the minimum price which may be paid for each or dinary out in the Directors Remuneration Report in the Companys the Meeting in person, your proxy appointment will share is 1p: Annual Report and Accounts, for the year ended 31 during the period commencing on the date of passing this automatically be terminated.
Note 8 Resolution 15 and ending on 5 September 2015 or at the c the maximum price which may be paid for any such close of business of the next Annual General Meeting of 3.
A Form of Pr oxy which may be used to make this 4.
T o declare a final dividend on the ordinary share capital of ordinary share is an amount equal to 105% of the average the Company whichever is the earlier provided that the appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 7.25p of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share authorised sum referred to in paragraphs a, b and c this Notice.
If you do not have a Form of Proxy and per share.
in the Company as derived from The London Stock above, may be comprised of one or more amounts in different believe that you should have one, please contact Capita Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days 5.
T o re-elect Robin Buchanan as a Director of the Company.
currencies which, for the purposes of calculating the said Asset Services on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per immediately preceding the day on which such share is Note 9 sum, shall be converted into pounds sterling at the exchange minute plus network extras, lines are open Monday to contracted to be purchased: rate published in the London edition of the Financial Times Friday, 8.30am to 5.30pm.
If you require additional copies 6.
To re-elect Simon Boddie as a Director of the Company.
on the date on which the relevant donation is made or d the authority her eby conferred shall expire at the you may photocopy the Form of Proxy.
Note 9 expenditure incurred or the first business day thereafter or, conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 5 7.
T o re-elect Steve Ingham as a Director of the Company.
In or der to be valid an appointment of proxy must be if earlier, on the day on which the Company enters into any September 2015 whichever is earlier unless previously Note 9 returned together with any authority under which it is contract or undertaking in relation to the same provided that, renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general executed or a copy of the authority certified or in some 8.
T o re-elect David Lowden as a Director of the Company.
in any event, the aggregate amount of political donations meeting: and other way approved by the Directors by one of the Note 9 and political expenditure made or incurred by the Company e the Company may make a contract to pur chase its following methods: and its subsidiaries pursuant to this Resolution 15 shall not 9.
T o re-elect Ruby McGregor-Smith as a Director of the ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred exceed 75,000. a in har d copy form by post, by courier or by hand to Company.
Note 9 prior to the expiry of such authority, which contract will the Companys Registrar, at, PXS1, 34 Beckenham or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of 16.
Special Resolution Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights 10.
To re-elect Tim Miller as a Director of the Company.
Road, Beckenham BR3 4ZF: such authority, and may purchase its ordinary shares in Note 12 Note 9 pursuance of any such contract.
b in the case of CREST members, by utilising the THAT the Directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant 11.
To elect Danuta Gray as a Director of the Company.
Note 9 CREST electronic proxy appointment service in to sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities within 18.
Special Resolution Notice of General Meetings 12.
T o reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor of the Company accordance with the procedures set out in the meaning of section 560 of the Act for cash either pursuant to Note 14 to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual General Note 6 below: the authority conferred by Resolution 14 above or by way of a sale Meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
THAT a general meeting, other than an annual general of treasury shares as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to and in each case must be received by the Company meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
T o authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: not less than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 127 128 Notice of AGM Notice of AGM CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM 5.
A copy of this Notice has been sent for information only to b the Annual Report on Remuneration, which sets out 10.
Resolution 14 Directors Authority to Allot Shares b shares up to a maximum nominal value of 160,717 persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy payments made in or relating to the financial year ending representing approximately 5% of the issued If passed, Resolution 14 will give the Directors authority to information rights under section 146 of the Act a Nominated 2013: and ordinary share capital of the Company as at 8 April allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Company up to Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy cannot be exercised 2014 the latest practicable date prior to publication c the Dir ectors Remuneration Policy the Remuneration a maximum nominal amount of 1,071,452 representing by a Nominated Person: they can only be exercised by the of this Notice otherwise than in connection with an Policy in relation to future payments to the Directors approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary member.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right offer to existing shareholders.
share capital as at 8 April 2014 the latest practicable under an agreement between him and the member by whom date before publication of this Notice.
This authority will The Dir ectors have no present intention of exercising this he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the Meeting The statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman lapse 15 months from the passing of the Resolution or authority.
The Directors confirm their intention to follow or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person and the Annual Report on Remuneration will, as in the past, at the next Annual General Meeting, whichever shall first the provisions of the Pre-emption Groups Statement does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise be put to an annual advisory shareholder vote by Ordinary occur.
Other than the allotment of shares arising from the of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give Resolution.
The Remuneration Policy part of the Report, vesting of shares or the exercise of options in respect within a rolling three-year period.
The Principles provide instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
which sets out the Companys forward looking policy on of the Companys share and share option schemes, the that companies should not issue for cash shares directors remuneration including the approach to exit 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a pr oxy or proxies Directors have no present intention of exercising this representing in excess of 7.5% of the Companys issued payments to directors, is subject to a binding shareholder by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service authority.
As at the date of this Notice the Company share capital in any rolling three-year period, other than vote by Ordinary Resolution at least every three years.
may do so by utilising the procedures described in the does not hold any ordinary shares in the capital of the to existing shareholders, without prior consultation with CREST Manual on the Euroclear website www.
The Dir ectors Remuneration Report is set out in full in the Company in treasury.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST Annual Report and Accounts on pages 67 to 86.
Resolution 15 Donations to Political Or ganisations and 13.
Resolution 17 Power to Buy Back Shares in the Market sponsored members, and those CREST members who have 2 is the Ordinary Resolution to approve the Directors Political Expenditure appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their Remuneration Report, other than the part containing the Resolution 17 gives the Company authority to buy back CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able Remuneration Policy on pages 69 to 74.
Resolution 2 For the purpose of this Resolution, political donations, its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a is an advisory resolution and does not affect the future political organisations and political expenditure have Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that could proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the remuneration paid to any director.
the meanings given to them in sections 363 to 365 of the be purchased to a maximum of 32,143,569 representing appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction Act.
In accordance with its business principles, it is the 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at Resolution 3 is the Or dinary Resolution to approve the must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear Companys policy not to make contributions to political 8 April 2014 the latest practicable date prior to publication Remuneration Policy which is set out in the Directors UK & Ireland Limiteds EUI specifications and must contain parties.
There is no intention to change it.
However, what of this Notice and sets minimum and maximum prices.
Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 74 of the Annual the information required for such instructions, as described constitutes a political party, a political organisation, This authority will expire 15 months from the passing of Report and Accounts.
The Remuneration Policy will in the CREST Manual.
The message regardless of whether it political donations or political expenditure under the the Resolution or at the next Annual General Meeting, commence on 5 June 2014 and payments will continue to constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to Act is not easy to decide as the legislation is capable of whichever shall first occur.
be made to the Directors and former directors in line with the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, wide interpretation.
Sponsorship, subscriptions, payment existing contractual arrangements until this date.
Once the The Dir ectors have no present intention of exercising the in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by of expenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling public Remuneration Policy has been approved, all payments by the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but the issuers agent ID number RA10 by the latest time s duties and support for bodies representing the business Company to the Directors and any former directors must be will keep the matter under review, taking into account for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of community in policy review or reform, among other things, made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy unless the financial resources of the Company, the Companys meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken may fall within these terms.
Therefore, notwithstanding a payment has been separately approved by a shareholder share price and future funding opportunities.
The authority to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied that the Company has not made a political donation in resolution.
If the Remuneration Policy is approved and will be exercised only if the Directors believe that to do to the message by the CREST Applications Host from the past, and has no intention of, either now or in the remains unchanged, it will be valid for up to three financial so would result in an increase in earnings per share and which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by future, making any political donation or incurring any years without a new shareholder approval.
If the Company would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Any enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The political expenditure in respect of any political party, wishes to change the Remuneration Policy, it will need to purchases of ordinary shares would be by means of Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction political organisation or independent election candidate, put the revised policy to a vote before it can implement the market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
in the circumstances set out in regulation 35 5 a of the the Board has decided to put forward Resolution 15 to new policy.
If the Remuneration Policy is not approved for Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. renew the authority granted by shareholders at the last Listed companies pur chasing their own shares are any reason, the Company will, if and to the extent permitted Annual General Meeting of the Company.
This will allow allowed to hold them in treasury as an alternative to 7.
CREST members and, wher e applicable, their CREST by the Act, continue to make payments to the Directors in the Company to continue to support the community and cancelling them.
No dividends are paid on shares while sponsors or voting service providers should note that EUI accordance with existing contractual arrangements and will put forward its views to wider business and Government they are held in treasury and no voting rights attach to does not make available special procedures in CREST for any seek shareholder approval of a revised policy as soon as interests without running the risk of being in breach treasury shares.
Normal system timings and limitations practicable.
As permitted under the Act, Resolution 15 will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy If Resolution 17 is passed at the Meeting, it is the 9.
Resolutions 5 to 11 Election Re-election of Directors also covers any of these activities by the Companys Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member Companys current intention to cancel all of the shares subsidiaries.
concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST In keeping with the Boar ds aim of following best corporate it may purchase pursuant to the authority granted to it.
personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a practice, each member of the Board is standing for re- 12.
Resolution 16 Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights However, in order to respond properly to the Companys voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor election, and in the case of Danuta Gray, who has been capital requirements and prevailing market conditions, Resolution 16 will give the Directors authority to allot or voting service provider s take s such action as shall appointed a Director since the last Annual General Meeting, the Directors will need to reassess at the time of any shares in the capital of the Company pursuant to the be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by election by the shareholders at this years Meeting.
Tim Miller and each actual purchase whether to hold the shares in authority granted under Resolution 14 for cash without means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this has contributed significantly to the Board during his tenure treasury or cancel them, provided it is permitted to do so.
complying with the pre-emption rights in the Act in certain connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their and continues to do so.
He was subject to the thorough circumstances.
This authority will permit the Directors As at 8 April 2014 the latest practicable date prior to the CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in Board evaluation review which was undertaken during 2013. to allot: publication of this Notice, there were 973,924, options particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning The Board still considers Tim Miller as independent and an to subscribe for shares in the capital of the Company practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
effective member of the Board.
The Nomination Committee a shares up to a nominal amount of 1,071,452, representing 0.30% of the Companys issued share keeps succession planning under review and, as Tim Miller representing approximately one-third of the 8.
Resolutions 2 and 3 Appr oval of the Directors capital.
If this authority to purchase the Companys will complete nine years on the Board later this year, will Companys issued share capital on an offer to Remuneration Report ordinary shares and the existing authority to purchase consider, in due course, whether he should remain a Director existing shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in taken at last years Annual General Meeting which expires There are new requirements this year in relation to the content of the Company until the next Annual General Meeting.
each case subject to adjustments for fractional at the end of this years Meeting were to be exercised of the Directors Remuneration Report and the approval of the Biographical information on each of the Directors is contained entitlements and overseas shareholders as the in full, these options would represent 0.38% of the Report, following changes made to the Act.
In accordance on pages 51 and 52 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Directors see fit : and Companys issued share capital.
with the new provisions, the Directors Remuneration Report The Chairman confirms that, following formal performance in the Annual Report and Accounts contains:- evaluation, all Directors standing for election re-election continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment a a statement by David Lowden, Remuneration to the role.
Committee Chairman: PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 129 130 Notice of AGM Notice of AGM CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM 14.
Resolution 18 Notice of General Meetings 18.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the Act can require the Company to publish a statement on its NOTES This Resolution seeks to renew the authority granted at the website setting out any matter relating to a the audit of the 2013 Annual General Meeting to allow the Company to call Companys accounts including the Auditors Report and the general meetings, other than an annual general meeting, on conduct of the audit that is to be laid before the Meeting: 14 clear days notice.
The minimum notice period for general or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the meetings of listed companies is 21 days, but companies may Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General reduce this period to 14 days other than for annual general Meeting, that the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
meetings provided that two conditions are met.
The first The Company cannot require the members requesting the condition is that a company offers a facility for shareholders to publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the vote by electronic means.
This condition is met if a company website must also be sent to the Companys Auditor no later offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, to appoint a than the time it makes the statement that the Company has proxy by means of a website.
The second condition is that been required to publish on its website.
there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice period from 21 days to 14 19.
The Company must cause to be answer ed at the Meeting days.
If approved, the Resolution will allow the Company any question relating to the business being dealt with at the to retain maximum flexibility to seek shareholder approval Meeting that is put by a member attending the Meeting, for any future change or transaction that may require such except in certain circumstances, including if it is undesirable approval.
This authority will be effective until the next Annual in the interests of the Company or the good order of the General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution Meeting that the question be answered or if to do so would will be proposed.
The Board will consider on a case by involve the disclosure of confidential information.
case basis whether the use of the flexibility offered by the 20.
Copies of the contract of service for Mr S Ingham and shorter notice period is merited, taking into account the the letters of appointment for the Chairman and the Noncircumstances, including whether the business of the meeting Executive Directors of the Company are available for is time sensitive.
inspection on the day of the Meeting, at the place of the 15.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may Meeting, from at least 30 minutes prior to the Meeting until its authorise a person or persons to act as its representative s conclusion.
The same documents are otherwise available for at the Meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the inspection at the Registered Office Address of the Company Act, each such representative may exercise on behalf of during normal business hours Monday to Friday Bank the corporation the same powers as the corporation could Holidays excepted.
exercise if it were an individual member of the Company, 21.
Y ou may not use any electronic address in this Notice to provided that they do not do so in relation to the same communicate with the Company for any purpose other than shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a designated those expressly stated.
As at 8 April 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consisted of 321,435,690 ordinary shares.
No shares are held in treasury.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 321,435,690.
The contents of this Notice, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the Meeting, details of the totals of the voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the Meeting and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this Notice will be available on the Companys website: www.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 131 132 Notice of AGM Part of www.
com PageGroup is the trading name of Michael Page International plc
