CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU has been 2.
The Dir ectors Report and the Strategic Report include a fair DIRECTORS REPORT followed, subject to any material departures disclosed review of the development and performance of the business and explained in the Group and parent Company financial and the position of the Group, together with a description of statements respectively the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the statements on the going concern basis, Disclosure of Information to the Auditors Dilution Financial Instruments and Financial Risk unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Management Each of the Directors as at the date of this Report confirms continue in business The Company reviews the awards of shares made under the various that: employee and executive share plans in terms of their effect on The Companys use of Financial Instruments is described in the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting dilution limits and complies with the dilution limits recommended by Treasury section of the Strategic Report on page 24.
Details of the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys 1.
So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit the Association of British Insurers.
financial instruments entered into, and any associated exposure to transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware.
price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk or cash flow risk, are included in time the financial position of the Company and the Group and 2.
The Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to Post Balance Sheet Events note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies There have been no significant events since 31 December 2013. of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Disclaimer Act 2006 and, as regards the Groups financial statements, Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible Related Party Transactions The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to provide for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be information to the members of the Company.
It has been prepared Details of the related party transactions in 2013 are described in and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the for the members of the Company, as a body, and for no other note 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Company, its Directors and employees, agents and advisers do not accept or assume any responsibility to any The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Political Donations Directors Confirmation other person to whom this document is shown or into whose integrity of the corporate and financial information included No political donations were made during the year.
PageGroup has hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom The Directors as at the date of this Report consider that a policy of not making political donations to political organisations expressly disclaimed.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, or independent election candidates or incurring political statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
balanced and understandable and provides the information The Strategic Report contains certain forward-looking statements.
expenditure anywhere in the world as defined in the Political necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys These statements are made by the Directors in good faith based Parties, Election and Referendums Act 2000.
Directors Responsibility Statement performance, business model and strategy.
on the information available to them up to the time of their approval of this report and such statements should be treated The Directors as at the date of this Report confirm that, to the Going Concern Statement By order of the Board with caution due to the inherent uncertainties, including both best of their knowledge: In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial economic and business risk factors, underlying any such forward- 1.
The Gr oups financial statements, prepared in accordance statements, the Directors have considered the business activities looking information.
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Elaine Marriner of the Group as well as the principle risks and uncertainties as by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Company Secretary set out on pages 47 to 49.
Based on the Groups level of cash, Reappointment of Auditors financial position and profit of the Group.
the level of borrowing facilities available, the geographical and Page House, 1 Dashwood Lang Road, The Bourne Business Ernst & Young LLP are willing to continue in office and accordingly discipline diversification, the limited concentration risk, as well as Park, Addlestone, Weybridge, Surrey KT15 2QW.
resolutions as regards their reappointment and to authorise the ability to manage the cost base, the Board is satisfied that the the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 4 March 2014 Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of these accounts.
As a result, the Annual General Meeting going concern basis continues to be appropriate in preparing the financial statements.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on 5 June 2014 and the notice of meeting can be found on page 127 and Significant Agreements containing change of will be available on our website at www.
com investors control provisions Directors Responsibilities The Company has an invoice discounting facility that terminates on a change of control, with prepaid amounts becoming payable.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and parent Company financial statements Directors and employees employment contracts do not normally in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
provide for compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a change of control.
However, the Company operates Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial several share schemes for the benefit of its Executive Directors statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors and employees and the rules of the share schemes and plans are required to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements contain provisions which may cause options and awards granted in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards to Executive Directors and employees to vest on a change IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of of control.
the lAS Regulation The Directors have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: The Directors consider that the elect suitable accounting policies and then apply them Annual Report and Accounts is consistently fair, balanced and understandable make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 89 90 Directors Report Directors Report
