CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM Change in accounting policy new accounting NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED AND PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENTS standards, interpretations and amendments For the year ended 31 December 2013 For the year ended 31 December 2013 The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those Group Company of the previous financial year, except for the following 1.
Significant accounting policies amendments to IFRS effective as of 1 January 2013: 2013 2012 2013 2012 Statement of compliance Note 000 000 000 000 IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendments to IAS 1 Profit before tax 2 64,057 57,003 27,680 11,686 Michael Page International plc is a company incorporated in IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised the United Kingdom under the Companies Act.
The financial Exceptional items 5 3,027 7,834 statements have been prepared under the historical cost IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Profit before tax and exceptional items 67,084 64,837 27,680 11,686 convention and in accordance with current International as revised in 2011 Depreciation and amortisation charges 11 12 17,461 15,073 Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the IFRS 1 Government Loans Amendments to IFRS 1 European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment, and IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and EU IAS Regulation.
computer software 10 5 Financial Liabilities Amendments to IFRS 7 Basis of preparation Share scheme charges 5,611 11,884 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements The financial statements of Michael Page International plc Net finance costs 1,668 284 8 consolidate the results of the Company and all its subsidiary IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Operating cash flow before changes in working undertakings.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement capital, finance costs and exceptional items 91,834 92,083 27,680 11,694 Act 2006, the profit and loss account of the Company has IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase not been included as part of these financial statements.
Increase decrease in receivables 8,506 7,454 24,762 21,125 of a Surface Mine The Companys profit for the financial year amounted to Decrease increase in payables 1,795 5,066 13,517 39,961 27.7m 2012: 11.7m.
The increase in the Companys The adoption of the standards or interpretations did not have Cash generated from underlying operations 81,533 94,471 16,435 30,530 profit this year is as a result of increased dividend income.
any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or The financial statements have been prepared on a going Exceptional items 5 3,027 7,834 performance of the Group except for the change below which concern basis.
Refer to page 89 for further details.
Cash generated from operations 78,506 86,637 16,435 30,530 Basis of consolidation IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income tax paid 24,367 24,371 Income Amendments to IAS 1 i Subsidiaries Net cash from operating activities 54,139 62,266 16,435 30,530 The amendments to IAS 1 changed the grouping of items Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
presented in other comprehensive income OCI.
Items that Cash flows from investing activities Control exists when the Company has the power, directly could be reclassified or recycled to profit or loss at a or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies Purchases of investments 2,172 2,908 future point in time for example, net gain on hedge of net of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Proceeds in respect of share scheme recharges investment, exchange differences on translation of foreign In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently to subsidiaries 5,018 operations, net movement on cash flow hedges and net loss are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
or gain on available-for-sale financial assets now have to be Purchases of property, plant and equipment 11 8,480 7,919 The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the presented separately from items that will never be reclassified consolidated financial statements from the date that control Purchases of intangibles 12 4,815 9,012 for example, actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit commences until the date that control ceases.
plans and revaluation of land and buildings.
The amendment Proceeds from the sale of property, plant and ii Transactions eliminated on consolidation affected presentation only and had no impact on the Groups equipment, and computer software 565 449 financial position or performance.
Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses Interest received 531 907 76 or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, Standards issued but not yet effective Net cash used in investing activities 12,199 15,575 2,846 2,832 are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial Cash flows from financing activities as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no statements are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt evidence of impairment.
Dividends paid 30,849 30,634 30,849 30,634 these standards, if applicable, when they become effective but Interest paid 1,475 1,218 84 iii Employee Benefit Trust they are not expected to have any impact on the accounting policy, financial position on performance of the Group.
Issue of own shares for the exercise of options 14,429 7,816 11,548 3,017 Shares in Michael Page International plc held by the trust are IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities shown as a reduction in shareholders funds.
Purchase of shares held in the employee Amendments to IAS 32 benefit trust 17,952 Change in accounting policy and prior year restatement IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification Net cash used in financing activities 17,895 41,988 19,301 27,701 The assets and liabilities of the Employee Benefit Trust and Measurement were previously recorded within the parent company IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Net increase decrease in cash and as well as in the consolidated Group accounts.
In 2013, cash equivalents 24,045 4,703 20 3 The Group has not early adopted any other standard, the accounting policy has been amended such that interpretation or amendment that has been issued but is they are no longer recorded within the parent company.
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning not yet effective.
The prior year comparatives for the company only have been of the year 61,373 58,168 20 23 restated accordingly.
This had an effect of increasing the net Going concern Exchange loss on cash and cash equivalents 24 1,498 assets by 81.2m with no impact on profit.
The net assets, The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial profit and cash flows of the Group are unaffected by this Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 20 85,394 61,373 20 statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and adjustment.
With the exception of the change in policy referred the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational to above, the remaining policies, set out below, have been existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to consistently applied to all the periods presented.
adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Directors Report on page 89.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 99 100 Financial Statements Financial Statements CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM a Revenue and income recognition all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected comprehensive income.
amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the Revenue, which excludes value added tax VAT, constitutes asset realised.
the value of services undertaken by the Group from its principal e Intangible assets The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value activities, which are recruitment consultancy and other ancillary less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, i Goodwill services.
These consist of: assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels except when it relates to items charged or credited directly Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cashto equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in revenue from temporary placements, which represents amounts the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of generating units.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there billed for the services of temporary staff, including the salary the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on the is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against cost of these staff.
This is recognised when the service has A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes been provided: determine whether there is any objective evidence that is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to revenue from permanent placements is typically based on a it is impaired.
is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised, but is settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
percentage of the candidates remuneration package and is tested at least annually for impairment see accounting policy h. A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective derived from both retained assignments income recognised j Pension costs Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying evidence indicates that one or more events has had a negative on completion of defined stages of work and non-retained amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
For The Group operates defined contribution pension assignments income recognised at the date an offer is certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held separately accepted by a candidate and where a start date has been ii Computer software assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The latter includes revenue anticipated, but not Computer software acquired or developed by the Group is stated subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
The pension costs charged to the income statement represent invoiced, at the balance sheet date, which is correspondingly at cost less accumulated amortisation see below.
The Group Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables the contributions payable by the Group to the funds during accrued on the balance sheet within prepayments and accrued reviews intangible software assets for any indication of impairment could include the Groups past experience of collecting each period.
A provision is made against accrued income for annually.
The Group performed this test on the carrying amount of payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in possible cancellations of placements prior to, or shortly after, k Leased assets computer software at 31 December 2013 and noted no indications the portfolio, as well as observable changes in national or local the commencement of employment: and of impairment.
economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms revenue from amounts billed to clients for expenses incurred on of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards iii Software under construction The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by their behalf principally advertisements is recognised when the of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the expense is incurred.
Software under construction relates to cost capitalised in relation exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount to the development of a new operating system and related Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When The Group does not currently have any finance leases.
Costs are capitalised when they fulfil the criteria in principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written IAS 38 regarding internally developed intangible assets.
While still Rentals under operating leases are charged to the income off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries b Cost of sales under construction, assets are tested for impairment annually.
statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
of amounts previously written off are credited against the The Group tested the carrying amount of software under Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into Cost of sales consists of the salary cost of temporary staff and allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the construction at 31 December 2013 and noted no impairment was an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over costs incurred on behalf of clients, principally advertising costs.
allowance account are recognised in the income statement.
Assets are moved from software under construction to the lease term.
c Gross profit i Taxation computer software when they become available for use.
l Segment reporting Gross profit represents revenue less cost of sales and consists iv Trademark Income tax expense represents the sum of the corporation tax IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the of the total placement fees of permanent candidates, the margin and deferred tax charges.
The tax currently payable is based Acquired trademarks are stated at cost and are written down over basis of internal reports about components of the Group that earned on the placement of temporary candidates and the margin on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit five years on a straight line basis, which represents the estimated are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer to allocate on advertising income.
as reported in the income statement because it excludes items useful life of the intangible.
resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other d Foreign currency translation Information provided to the Chief Executive Officer is focused years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or v Amortisation on regions and as a result, reportable segments are on a i Functional and presentation currency deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straightregional basis.
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted Items included in the financial statements of each of line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets by the balance sheet date.
m Dividend distribution the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the unless such lives are indefinite.
Goodwill has an indefinite useful primary economic environment in which the entity operates life.
Computer software is amortised at 20% per annum unless Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements it is considered to have a shorter life, in which case the period of amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the Companys functional and amortisation is reduced.
The cumulative amount of goodwill written and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of in the period in which the dividends are approved by presentation currency.
off directly to retained earnings in respect of acquisitions prior to taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet for final dividends or paid to for interim dividends the 31 December 1997 is 311.7m 2013: 311.7m.
ii Transactions and balances Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable f Property, plant and equipment n Share-based compensation Foreign currency transactions are translated into the respective temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the Property, plant and equipment are stated at original cost less The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated to write off compensation plans.
The accounting treatments for the Group available against which deductible temporary differences can resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the the cost less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over its and parent company are similar and are described below: be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and expected useful life at the following rates: temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial i Share option schemes liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Leasehold improvements 10% per annum or period of recognition other than in a business combination of other income statement.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange lease if shorter assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense in iii Group companies taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Furniture, fixtures and equipment 10-20% per annum the income statement of the Group with a corresponding The results and financial position of all the Group entities Motor vehicles 25% per annum Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary adjustment to equity.
In the parent company, it is capitalised none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except as an investment, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
g Investments that have a functional currency different from the presentation where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provision difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted, for impairment.
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions for assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and example, earnings per share.
Non-market vesting conditions are translated at the closing rate at the date of that h Impairment of assets reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient are included in assumptions about the number of options that balance sheet: Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to taxable profits will be available.
are expected to become exercisable.
At each balance sheet income and expenses for each income statement are translated amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
An impairment date, the estimate of the number of options that are expected to at average exchange rates: and PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 101 102 Financial Statements Financial Statements
