CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM i Credit risk 19.
Reserves Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a client or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual Share premium obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from clients.
Management has a credit policy in place and the The share premium account has been established to represent the excess of proceeds over the nominal value for all share issues, including exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
the excess of the exercise share price over the nominal value of the shares on the exercise of share options.
At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented Capital redemption reserve by the carrying amount of each financial asset in the balance sheet.
The capital redemption reserve relates to the cancellation of the Companys own shares.
Trade and other receivables Reserve for shares held in the employee benefit trust Total trade receivables net of allowances held by the Group at 31 December 2013 amounted to 146.7m 2012: 141.7m.
At 31 December 2013, the reserve for shares held in the employee benefit trust consisted of 12,789,313 ordinary shares 2012: 15,715,157 An initial credit period is made available on invoices.
No interest is charged on trade receivables from the date of the invoice ordinary shares held for the purpose of satisfying awards made under the Incentive Share Plan, the Annual Bonus Plan and the Share Option during this credit period.
Thereafter, interest is charged on the outstanding balance.
The Group has provided fully for all receivables Scheme SOS, representing 4.0% of the called-up share capital with a market value of 62.4m 2012: 62.1m.
over 150 days because historical experience is such that receivables past due beyond 150 days are generally not recoverable.
Trade receivables below 150 days are provided for based on estimated irrecoverable amounts from the provision of our services, There are 10,722,795 of these shares held in the trust on which dividends are waived.
determined by reference to past default experience.
Currency translation reserve Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are debtors with a carrying amount of 68.7m 2012: 58.6m that are past Since first-time adoption of the International Financial Reporting Standards, the currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange due at the reporting date for which the Group has not provided as the amounts are still considered recoverable.
The Group does differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations that are integral to the operations of the Company.
not hold any collateral over these balances.
The average age of these receivables is 54 days in excess of the initial credit period 2012: 58 days.
The demographics of the The Group operates a multi-currency notional cash pool.
Currently the main Eurozone subsidiaries and the UK-based Group Treasury Groups client base, including the country in which clients operate, also has an influence on credit risk.
Less than 3% of the Groups subsidiary participate in this cash pool, although it is the Groups intention to extend the scope of the participation to other Group companies revenue is attributable to sales transactions with a single client.
The geographic diversification of the Groups revenue also reduces going forward.
The structure facilitates interest and balance compensation of cash and bank overdrafts.
the concentration of credit risk.
The majority of the Groups clients have been transacting with the Group for several years, with losses rarely occurring.
Financial risk management client credit risk, clients are grouped according to their credit characteristics, including geographic location, industry, ageing profile, The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: maturity and existence of previous financial difficulties.
i credit risk Movement in the allowance for doubtful debts: ii liquidity risk 2013 2012 iii market risk 000 000 6,732 Balance at beginning of the year 7,093 This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further quantitative disclosures are included throughout these Impairment losses recognised on receivables 6,960 5,620 consolidated financial statements.
Amounts written off as uncollectable 483 1,644 The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
Amounts recovered during the year 1,997 2,237 The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and Impairment losses reversed 4,554 2,100 controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in Balance at end of the year 6,658 6,732 market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
Most of the allowance for doubtful debts represents individually impaired trade receivables with a balance of 0.5m 2012: 1.6m The Group Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures which has been placed in litigation, as well as a further provision for debts more than 150 days past their due date.
and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group.
The Group Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and The impairment recognised represents the difference between the carrying amount of these trade receivables and the present value procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
of the expected liquidation proceeds.
The Group does not hold any collateral over these balances.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 117 118 Financial Statements Financial Statements
