CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM Opinion on financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT In our opinion: TO THE MEMBERS OF MICHAEL PAGE the financial statements give a true and fair view of the INTERNATIONAL PLC state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as We have audited the financial statements of Michael Page at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year International plc the Group for the year ended 31 December then ended 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Group financial statements have been properly the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the European Union Consolidated and Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the Consolidated and Parent Company Cash the parent company financial statements have been Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 25.
The financial properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the European Union and as applied in accordance with the is applicable law and International Financial Reporting provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as the financial statements have been prepared in accordance regards the parent company financial statements, as applied with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the This report is made solely to the companys members, IAS Regulation as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Our assessment of risk of material that we might state to the companys members those matters misstatement we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do We identified the following risks that have had the greatest not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources FINANCIAL STATEMENTS company and the companys members as a body, for our audit in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
revenue recognition for permanent and temporary placements, with particular focus on period end cut-off and Respective responsibilities of directors appropriate accounting treatment in accordance with IFRS and auditor and Group accounting policies As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities accounting for the new operating system intangible asset, Indepent Auditors Report 92 Statement set out on page 89 and 90, the directors are with particular focus on appropriate cost capitalisation and responsible for the preparation of the Group financial carrying value Consolidated Income Statement 95 statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair the Groups exposure to direct and indirect taxes and the view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 95 related accounting judgements the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets 96 standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Our application of materiality Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We apply the concept of materiality both in planning Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 97 and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of Scope of the audit of the financial misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
Statement of Changes in Equity Parent Company 98 statements For the purposes of determining whether the financial Consolidated and Parent Company Cash statements are free from material misstatement we define An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Flow Statements 99 materiality as the magnitude of misstatement that makes and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free knowledgeable person, relying on the financial statements, Notes to the financial statements from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
would be changed or influenced.
We also determine a level of This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting 1.
Trade and other receivables 113 performance materiality which we use to determine the extent policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the 2.
Trade and other payables 113 companys circumstances and have been consistently applied probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 3.
Bank overdrafts 114 misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall as a whole.
presentation of the financial statements.
Deferred tax 114 all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined 5.
Called-up share capital 115 Report and Accounts 2013 to identify material inconsistencies a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged with the audited financial statements and to identify any 6.
Reserves 117 would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, We determined materiality for the Group to be 3.4 million, 7.
Taxation on profits on ordinary activities 107 20.
Cash and cash equivalents 117 or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us which is approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax for in the course of performing the audit.
Current tax assets and liabilities 108 21.
Financial risk management 117 the year ended 31 December 2013.
We used adjusted profit any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we before tax to exclude those items classified as exceptional 9.
Commitments 121 consider the implications for our report.
items within the financial statements.
Events after the balance sheet date 122 12.
Investments 111 Five Year Summary 122 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 91 92 Financial Statements Financial Statements
