CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM If a member or any person appearing to be interested in SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AND ADVISERS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION shares held by a member has been duly served with a notice The following summarises certain provisions of the Companys under the Act and is in default for the prescribed period in Annual General Meeting Articles of Association as adopted on 21 May 2010 and supplying to the Company information thereby required, To be held on 5 June 2014 at 12.00 noon at Page House, The Bourne Business Park, 1 Dashwood Lang Road, Addlestone, Weybridge, applicable English Law.
The summary is qualified in its entirety unless the Directors otherwise determine, the member shall Surrey, KT15 2QW.
Every shareholder is entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
by reference to the Companies Act 2006 of Great Britain not be entitled in respect of the default shares to be present or the Act, as amended, and the Companys Articles of to vote either in person or by representative or proxy at any Association.
Under the Act, the Memorandum of Association Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 general or class meeting of the Company or on any poll or to of the Company has now become a document of record, and exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation To be paid if approved on 23 June 2014 to shareholders on the register on 23 May 2014. no longer contains any operative provisions.
In certain circumstances, any dividend due in respect of the default shares shall be withheld and Incorporation Company Secretary certain certificated transfers may be refused.
The Company is incorporated under the name Michael Page Elaine Marriner A member entitled to more than one vote need not, if he votes, International plc and is registered in England and Wales with use all his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
Company number A member is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to Share capital 3310225 exercise all or any of his rights to attend and speak and vote at a meeting of the Company.
A proxy need not be a member.
The Act abolished the concept of, and requirement for a A member may appoint more than one proxy to attend on Registered office, domicile and legal form company to have, an authorised share capital.
As such, the the same occasion.
This does not preclude the member from Company no longer has an authorised share capital.
The Company is a limited liability company incorporated and domiciled within the United Kingdom.
attending and voting at the meeting or at any adjournment of it.
Alteration of capital Limitations and non-resident or foreign shareholders The address of its registered office is: The Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution: English law treats those persons who hold the shares and Page House, a consolidate and divide all or any of its shar e capital into are neither UK residents nor nationals in the same way as The Bourne Business Park, shares of larger amount than its existing shares: UK residents or nationals.
They are free to own, vote on and 1 Dashwood Lang Road, transfer any shares they hold.
Addlestone, b sub-divide its shar es, or any of them, into shares of a Weybridge, smaller amount than its existing shares: and Variation of rights Surrey KT15 2QW.
c determine that, as between the shar es resulting from such If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into Tel: 01932 264144 a sub-division, any of them may have any preference or different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class Fax: 01932 264297 advantage as compared with the others.
may be varied either: Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may a in such manner if any as may be provided by those rights: by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital or Auditor Joint corporate brokers redemption reserve and any share premium account, in b in the absence of any such pr ovision, with the consent in Ernst & Young LLP Citigroup any way.
writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value 1 More London Place 33 Canada Square Purchase of own shares of the issued shares of the class excluding any shares of London SE1 2AF Canary Wharf that class held as treasury shares or with the sanction of a London E14 5LB Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may Solicitors special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of purchase its own shares, including redeemable shares.
The the holders of the shares of the class, Deutsche Bank Herbert Smith LLP Company proposes to renew its authority to purchase its Winchester House Exchange House own shares for another year in item 16 of the Annual General but not otherwise, and may be so varied either whilst the 1 Great Winchester Street Primrose Street Meeting notice.
Company is a going concern or during, or in contemplation London EC2N 2DB London EC2A 2HS of, a winding-up.
At every such separate general meeting General meetings and voting rights the necessary quorum shall be at least two persons together Bankers Registrars The Directors may call general meetings whenever and at holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal whatever time and location they so determine.
Subject to value of the issued shares of the class excluding any shares HSBC Bank plc Capita Registrars Ltd the provisions of the Act, an annual general meeting and all of that class held as treasury shares, save that at any West End Business The Registry general meetings which shall be called extraordinary general adjourned meeting any holder of shares of the class other Banking Centre 34 Beckenham Road meetings shall be called by at least 21 clear days notice.
than treasury shares present or by proxy shall be a quorum.
70 Pall Mall Beckenham Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may resolve Unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached London SW1Y 5GZ Kent BR3 4TU to reduce the notice period for general meetings other than to any class of shares, those rights shall be deemed not to Deutsche Bank Netherlands N. V. annual general meetings to 14 days on an annual basis.
The be varied by the purchase by the Company of any of its own fide Entree 99 Company proposes to renew its authority to hold general shares or the holding of such shares as treasury shares.
1101 HE Amsterdam meetings on 14 days notice for another year in item 17 of the The Netherlands Dividend rights Annual General Meeting notice.
Two persons entitled to vote upon the business to be transacted shall be a quorum.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but no such dividend shall exceed The Articles of Association provide that subject to any rights or Key dates the amount recommended by the Directors.
If, in the opinion restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands every of the Directors, the profits of the Company available for Ex-Dividend date 21 May 2014 member and every duly appointed proxy present shall have distribution justify such payments, the Directors may, from time Record date 23 May 2014 one vote.
Every corporate representative present who has been to time, pay interim dividends on the shares of such amounts Annual General Meeting 5 June 2014 duly authorised by a corporation has the same voting rights as and on such dates and in respect of such periods as they Payment of proposed final ordinary dividend 23 June 2014 the corporation would be entitled to.
On a poll every member think fit.
The profits of the Company available for distribution Interim results announcement 13 August 2014 present in person or by a duly appointed proxy or corporate and resolved to be distributed shall be apportioned and paid representative shall have one vote for every share of which he proportionately to the amounts paid up on the shares during is a holder or in respect of which his appointment as proxy or any portion of the period in respect of which the dividend is corporate representative has been made.
The members may, at a general meeting declaring a entitled to vote in respect of any share held by him if any call or dividend upon the recommendation of the Directors, direct other sum payable by him to the Company remains unpaid.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 123 124 Additional Information Additional Information
