Summary of significant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2013 General information The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of acquisition is Micro Focus International plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The address of its measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments registered office is, The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, RG14 1QN, UK.
Micro Focus International plc and its subsidiaries with costs directly attributable to the acquisition being expensed.
together the Group provide innovative software to clients around Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities the world enabling them to dramatically improve the business value assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their of their enterprise applications.
The Group has a presence in fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any 29countries worldwide and employs approximately 1,200 people.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Group consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealized gains on by the board of directors on 18 June 2013. transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure I Group accounting policies consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
A Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Micro Focus International plc C Revenue recognition have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International The Group recognizes revenues from sales of software licences, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, IFRS Interpretations Committee including Intellectual Property and Patent rights, to end-users, resellers and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under and Independent Software Vendors ISV upon persuasive evidence of IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a an arrangement, delivery of the software and determination that going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified collection of a fixed or determinable fee is reasonably assured.
ISV by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including derivative revenue includes fees based on end usage of ISV applications that instruments at fair value through the consolidated statement of have our software embedded in their applications.
When the fees for comprehensive income.
software upgrades and enhancements, maintenance, consulting and training are bundled with the licence fee, they are unbundled using The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS the Groups objective evidence of the fair value of the elements requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires represented by the Groups customary pricing for each element in management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the separate transactions.
If evidence of fair value exists for all undelivered Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of elements and there is no such evidence of fair value established for judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates delivered elements, revenue is first allocated to the elements where are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed fair value has been established and the residual amount is allocated below in II, Critical accounting estimates and assumptions.
If evidence of fair value for any undelivered element of the arrangement does not exist, all revenue from the The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group in the arrangement is deferred until such time that evidence of fair value preparation of the consolidated financial statements are set out below.
exists or undelivered elements of the arrangement are delivered.
These policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented unless stated otherwise.
If the arrangement includes acceptance criteria, revenue is not recognized until the Group can objectively demonstrate that the B Consolidation acceptance criteria has been met, or the acceptance period lapses, The financial statements of the Group comprise the financial whichever is earlier.
The Group recognizes licence revenue derived statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company, from sales to resellers upon delivery to resellers, provided that all other its subsidiaries, prepared at the balance sheet date.
Control exists revenue recognition criteria are met, otherwise revenue is deferred and where the Company has the power to govern the financial and recognized upon delivery of the product to the end-user.
Where the operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its Group sells access to a licence for a specified period of time and activities.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the collection of a fixed or determinable fee is reasonably assured, licence date onwhich control passes to the Group.
The results of disposed revenue is recognised upon delivery, unless future substantive subsidiaries are consolidated up to the date on which control passes upgrades or similar future performance obligations are committed to, from the Group.
in which case revenue is deferred and recognised rateably over the specified period.
Maintenance revenue is derived from providing technical support and software updates to customers.
Maintenance revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract, which in most cases is one year.
Revenue from consulting and training services is recognized on a percentage of completion basis as the services are performed.
The stage of completion is measured on the basis of services performed to date as a percentage of the total services to be performed.
Amounts collected prior to satisfying the above revenue recognition criteria are included in deferred income.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 42 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information D Segment reporting The shares are recognized when the options are exercised and the proceeds received allocated between ordinary shares and share In accordance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, the Group has derived the information for its operating segments using the premium account.
information used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker the Executive Committee.
Operating segments are consistent with Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The those used in internal management reporting and the measure expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on used by the Executive Committee is the adjusted operating profit managements best estimate for the effects of non transferability, for the Group as a whole as set out in note 4 and Adjusted EBITDA exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The Group has operating segments relating to the three geographic regions.
The Executive Committee has delegated The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant responsibilities for directly managed costs to the Regional Presidents of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, of the three geographic regions of the Group and then allocated and the charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
centrally managed costs to those regions, consequently for the three operating segments the Group measures Adjusted G Foreign currency translation Operating Profit.
a Functional and presentation currency The presentation currency of the Group is US dollars.
Items included in E Exceptional items the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured Exceptional items are those significant items which are separately in the functional currency of each entity.
disclosed by virtue of their size, nature or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial performance.
b Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Examples of transactions which may be considered of an exceptional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the nature include major restructuring programmes or cost of integrating transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the acquired businesses.
settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in F Employee benefit costs foreign currencies are recognized in the consolidated statement of a Pension obligations comprehensive income.
Group companies operate various pension schemes.
All of the major schemes are defined contribution plans for which the Group pays c Group companies contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has functional currency different from the presentation currency are no further payment obligations once the contributions have been translated into the presentation currency as follows: paid.
The contributions are recognized as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognized as i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet: payments is available.
ii income and expenses for each consolidated statement of b Share based compensation comprehensive income item are translated at average exchange The Group operated various equity-settled, share based compensation rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the plans during the year.
cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the dates of the For shares or share options granted after 7 November 2002 and transactions : and vested after 1 January 2005 the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the shares or options is iii all resulting exchange differences are recognized as a separate recognized as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the component of equity.
vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares or options granted.
Non-market vesting conditions are included On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to the net investment in foreign entities are taken to other become exercisable.
Market vesting conditions are taken into account comprehensive income.
when determining the fair value of the options at grant date.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognizes the foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate, with the exception for goodwill impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, and a corresponding adjustment arising before 1 May 2004 which is treated as an asset of the to equity over the remaining vesting period.
Company and expressed in the Companys functional currency.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Summary of significant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2013 continued d Exchange rates d Intangible assets arising on business combinations The most important foreign currencies for the Group are pounds Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at sterling, the Euro and Japanese Yen.
The exchange rates used are as cost less accumulated amortization.
Amortization is charged to the follows: consolidated statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of each intangible asset.
Intangible 2013 2012 assets are amortized from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives will vary for each category of asset acquired Average Closing Average Closing and to date are as follows: 1 $ 1.57 1.55 1.59 1.63 1 $ 1.29 1.31 1.37 1.32 Purchased software Thr ee to five years 100 Yen $ 0.84 0.98 0.79 0.80 Development costs Thr ee years Trade names Thr ee years Technology Five to ten years H Intangible assets Customer relationships T wo to ten years a Goodwill Non-compete agreements Thr ee to five years Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the I Property, plant and equipment date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less in intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
losseson the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or ofgoodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Each probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will ofthose cash-generating units represents the Groups investment in flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
each area of operation by each primary reporting segment.
All other repairs and maintenance expenditures are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income during the financial As permitted under IFRS 1, the Group has elected to deem the period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation is calculated using the UKGAAP net book value at 1 May 2004 as the IFRS cost of goodwill straight-line method to write off the cost of each asset to its residual at transition date.
value over its estimated useful life as follows: b Computer software Land and buildings Thirty years Computer software licences are capitalized on the basis of the costs Leasehold improvements Thr ee to ten years incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These Fixtures and fittings Five to seven years costs are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated Computer equipment One to five years useful lives of three to five years.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted c Research and development if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount Research expenditure is recognized as an expense as incurred.
Costs is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets incurred on development projects relating to the developing of new carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
computer software programmes and significant enhancement of Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the existing computer software programmes are recognized as intangible disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the assets when it is probable that the project will be a success, consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
considering its commercial and technological feasibility, and costs can be measured reliably.
Only direct costs are capitalized which are the J Impairment of non-financial assets software development employee costs.
Development costs previously Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a amortization and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subsequent period.
Development costs are amortized from the subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events commencement of the commercial production of the product on a or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may straight-line basis over the period of its expected benefit, typically not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognized for the amount being three years.
by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 44 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information K Inventories Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
The cost of finished goods comprises software for resale and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial packaging materials.
Net realizable value is the estimated selling statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business selling expenses.
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred When work has been performed and the revenue is not yet income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been recognized, the direct costs of third party contractors and staff will enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and are be treated as work in progress where the probability of invoicing expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized and evidence of collectability can be demonstrated.
or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit L Trade receivables will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized.
Trade receivables are initially recognized at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost less provisions for Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not ofthe temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between foreseeable future.
the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount Current tax is recognized based on the amounts expected to be paid of the provision is recognized in the consolidated statement of or recovered under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or comprehensive income.
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
M Cash and cash equivalents Q Ordinary shares, share premium and dividend distribution Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with oroptions are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are recognized as a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which N Borrowings the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing Interim dividends are recognized when they are paid.
borrowings are stated at amortized cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognized in the consolidated R Financial instruments and hedge accounting statement of comprehensive income over the period of borrowing Financial assets and liabilities are recognized in the Groups balance on an effective interest basis.
sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provision of the instrument.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are O Leases stated at their fair value less the amount of any appropriate provision Leases where the lessor retains a significant portion of the risks and for irrecoverable amounts.
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments are stated at their fair value.
made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the lessor, are charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not typically income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
hold or issue derivative financial instruments for hedge accounting or trading purposes.
P Taxation Current and deferred tax are recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with directly in equity.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 Summary of significant accounting policies for the year ended 30 April 2013 continued S Provisions t '34 A$POTPMJEBUFE 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT BQQMJFT GPS QFSJPET beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
"Provisions for onerous leases, restructuring costs and legal claims are recognized when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outflow of t '34 A PJOU ""SSBOHFNFOUT BQQMJFT GPS QFSJPET CFHJOOJOH PO resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has or after 1 January 2014. been reliably estimated."
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Provisions t '34 A%JTDMPTVSFT PG OUFSFTUT JO 0UIFS &OUJUJFT BQQMJFT GPS are not recognized for future operating losses.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an t '34 A'BJS 7BMVF.
FBTVSFNFOU BQQMJFT GPS QFSJPET CFHJOOJOH outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering on or after 1 January 2013. the class of obligations as a whole.
"A provision is recognized even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in t ""4 3FWJTFE A4FQBSBUF 'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOUT BQQMJFT the same class of obligations may be small."
for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
"Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures t ""4 3FWJTFE A""TTPDJBUFT BOE PJOU 7FOUVSFT BQQMJFT GPS expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation."
"The increase in the provision t ""NFOENFOU UP ""4 A'JOBODJBM OTUSVNFOUT 1SFTFOUBUJPO due to the passage of time is recognized as an interest expense."
applies to periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
T Adoption of new and revised International Financial The directors anticipate that the future introduction of those Reporting Standards standards, amendments and interpretations listed above will not The accounting policies adopted in these consolidated financial have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
statements are consistent with those of the annual financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2012, with the exception II Critical accounting estimates and assumptions of the following standards, amendments to or interpretations of In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Group has published standards adopted during the year: made its best estimates and judgements of certain amounts included in the financial statements, giving due consideration to materiality.
a The following standards, interpretations and amendments to The Group regularly reviews these estimates and updates them as existing standards are now effective and have been adopted by required.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
"Unless the Group: otherwise indicated, the Group does not believe that it is likely that materially different amounts would be reported related to the t ""NFOENFOUT UP '34 A'JOBODJBM JOTUSVNFOUT %JTDMPTVSFT PO accounting estimates and assumptions described below."
The Group Derecognition for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2011. considers the following to be a description of the most significant These amendments arise from the IASBs review of off-balance estimates, which require the Group to make subjective and complex sheet activities and will promote transparency in the reporting judgements, and matters that are inherently uncertain.
a Impairment of goodwill b The following standards, interpretations and amendments to The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any existing standards are not yet effective, have not yet been endorsed impairment in accordance with the accounting policy 1J.
The by the EU and have not been adopted early by the Group: recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use t '34 A'JOBODJBM OTUSVNFOUT GPS QFSJPET CFHJOOJOH PO PS BGUFS of estimates.
"Details of the Groups impairment review and sensitivities 1 January 2015. to changes in assumptions are disclosed in note 9. t ""NFOENFOU UP ""4 A ODPNF 5BYFT BQQMJFT GPS QFSJPET b Income taxes beginning on or after 1 January 2013."
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
"Significant judgement is required in determining the worldwide t ""NFOENFOU UP ""4 A&NQMPZFF #FOFUT GPS QFSJPET provision for income taxes."
There are many transactions and beginning on or after 1 January 2013. calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
"The Group recognizes liabilities for anticipated settlement of tax issues based on estimates of whether t ""NFOENFOU UP ""4 A'JOBODJBM 4UBUFNFOU 1SFTFOUBUJPO BQQMJFT for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2013. additional taxes will be due."
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
The Group carries appropriate provision, based on best estimates, until tax computations are agreed with the taxation authorities.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 46 2013 overview Management and governance Company financial statements and notes Business review Consolidated financial statements and notes Additional information c Acquisitions b Foreign currency risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign When making acquisitions, the Group has to make judgements and best estimates about the fair value allocation of the purchase price.
exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with Appropriate advice is sought from professional advisors before making respect to UK sterling, the Yen and the Euro.
Foreign exchange risk such allocations.
The valuation of goodwill and other intangibles is arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and tested annually or whenever there are changes in circumstances liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Foreign exchange indicating that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
These risk arises when future commercial transactions, recognized assets and tests require the use of estimates.
Note 9 gives details of the Groups liabilities are denominated in a currency that is not the entitys impairment reviews.
d Development expenditure There were no hedging transactions in place at 30 April 2013.
The Group invests in the development of future products in accordance with the accounting policy H c. The assessment as to The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net whether this expenditure will achieve a complete product for which assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
the technical feasibility is assured is a matter of judgement, as is the forecasting of how the product will generate future economic benefit.
c Interest rate risk Finally, the period of time over which the economic benefit associated The Groups income and operating cash flows are substantially with the expenditure occurred will arise is also a matter of judgement.
independent of changes in market interest rates.
These judgements are made by evaluating the development plan prepared by the research and development department and approved The Groups interest rate risk arises from short-term borrowings.
by management, regularly monitoring progress by using an established Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow set of criteria for assessing technical feasibility and benchmarking to interest rate risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
The Group does not use interest rate swaps to manage its cash flow interest rate risk at the present time due to low market rates.
III Financial risk factors The Groups multi-national operations expose it to a variety of financial d Liquidity risk risks that include the effects of changes in credit risk, foreign currency Central treasury carries out cash flow forecasting for the Group to risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
Risk management is carried out ensure that it has sufficient cash to meet operational requirements by a central treasury department under policies approved by the board and to allow the repayment of the bank facility.
Group treasury identifies and evaluates financial risks alongside the Groups operating units.
The board provides written Surplus cash in the operating units over and above what is required principles for risk management together with specific policies covering forworking capital needs is transferred to Group treasury.
These funds areas such as foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and are used to repay bank borrowings or invested in interest bearing liquidity risk, use of derivative financial instruments and non-derivative current accounts, time deposits or money market deposits ofthe financial instruments as appropriate, and investment of excess funds.
appropriate maturity period determined by consolidated cashforecasts.
In accordance with the treasury policy, the Group does not typically hold or issue derivative financial instruments.
Trade payables arise in the normal course of business and are allcurrent.
a Credit risk Financial instruments which potentially expose the Group to a Borrowings relate to our unsecured $275m bank facility see note 16. concentration of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash The balance is considered current as it is a revolving credit facility equivalents and accounts receivable.
Cash equivalents are deposited renewable each month.
with high-credit quality financial institutions.
The Group provides credit to customers in the normal course of business.
Collateral is Onerous lease provisions are expected to mature between less than not required for those receivables, but ongoing credit evaluations of twelve months and six years.
customers financial conditions are performed.
The Group maintains a provision for impairment based upon the expected collectability of accounts receivable.
The Group sells products and services to a wide range of customers around the world and therefore believes there is no material concentration of credit risk.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47
