Anite plc 120 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Glossary of terms continued Net cash GCF Global Certification Forum a regulatory body to give operators Cash and cash equivalents less bank borrowings.
confidence in the interworking of new mobile terminals.
Performance testing Measuring how a wireless device performs under difference usage GSM Global System for Mobile communications the dominant global conditions for characterisations such as data download speed, audio 2G wireless telephony standard.
Interoperability testing IOT RAN5 Phase associated with testing to ensure suitable interworking between A team of experts within one of 3GPPs Technical Specification specific wireless devices and mobile networks.
Groups that specialises in the definition of test specifications for LTE and 3G wireless devices.
Inter-RAT The interworking of 3G and LTE with older Radio Access Technology Smartphone RAT such as GSM, to provide coverage in areas where the newer Mobile phone which incorporates advanced capabilities, including technology is yet to be deployed.
LTE Spectrum Long Term Evolution is the latest standard in mobile air interface  airwaves that companies license to transmit technology.
It is a project of the Third Generation Partnership wireless signals on certain frequency allocations.
Tablet LTE-ADVANCED LTE-A A lightweight, wireless internet-enabled computer, operated via Long Term Evolution Advanced LTE 4G evolution enabling even higher an integrated touchscreen interface with a similar appearance and data rates.
operation to a smartphone, but differentiated by its larger size.
LTE FDD Test script Frequency Division Duplexing LTE utilising paired spectrum.
A defined procedure used to verify device functionality.
LTE TDD VoLTE Time Division Duplexing LTE variant that is being adopted in China.
Voice over LTE is an IMS IP Multimedia Subsystembased specification enabling voice to be carried through an IP cellular system.
M2M Machine-to-machine refers to technologies that allow both wireless and wired systems to communicate autonomously without human intervention.
