Anite plc 68 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Notes to the accounts 1 Corporate information c Business combinations Anite plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for under the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the and domiciled in England and Wales whose ordinary shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Transaction costs are statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The principal expensed as incurred.
activities of the Companys principal subsidiaries are described in note 17.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, The Groups consolidated financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 1 July 2013. the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during 2 Summary of significant accounting policies the measurement period to reflect the new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if a Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The Directors continue to adopt the going concern The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and basis of accounting as explained on page 60 in the Governance section.
The Group has prepared its financial statements in accordance with circumstances that existed of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum of one year.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Where an acquisition includes a contingent consideration arrangement, adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations and those parts this is measured at its fair value on the date of acquisition.
Subsequent changes to the fair value that are made within the measurement period of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 are adjusted against the cost of acquisition.
d Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the excess The significant accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time in the current period Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least and have been adopted by the Group with no significant impact on its financial performance or position.
annually see note 2 g. Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Amendment to IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures On disposal or closure of a previously acquired business, the amount Amendment to IAS 12 Income Taxes of goodwill attributable is included in determining the profit or loss on disposal or closure.
b Basis of consolidation e Intangible assets The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of i Software licences the Company and entities controlled by the Company, all of which are Software licences are initially measured at cost.
Cost includes made up to 30 April each year.
Control is achieved where the Company the purchase price of the assets and the directly attributable costs of has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating bringing the asset into its intended use.
After initial recognition, the policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The intangible asset is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation less financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged evenly year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
over the assets estimated useful life which is typically three years.
The results of companies acquired are consolidated from the date on which control passes to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred from the Group.
All intra Group transactions balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
