Anite plc 69 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements 2 Summary of significant accounting policies continued Costs relating to short leasehold properties, office equipment and ii Separately identifiable intangible assets arising on business combinations fixtures and fittings and vehicles are included in the plant, fixtures, equipment and motor vehicles category see note 16.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognised at their fair value on the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition the intangible asset is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation less The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is any accumulated impairment losses.
The useful lives of assets such as determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
customer lists and relationships, technology and R&D are assessed over the period that benefits are expected to accrue to the Group.
The useful g Impairment of assets economic lives are reviewed regularly to ensure the recoverability of these intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be The amortisation period ranges from five to ten years and is based impaired.
Tangible and intangible assets with finite useful lives are tested for impairment at each reporting date where there is an indication that on equal annual instalments over the assets estimated useful life.
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets is charged as a separate an asset may be impaired.
line item in the income statement.
When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of the net present value of the iii Research and development expenditure Expenditure on research activities as defined in IFRS is recognised in the expected cash flows value in use of the relevant cash-generating unit CGU or asset and the fair value less cost to sell.
In assessing value in income statement as an expense as incurred.
use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of Expenditure on development activities is capitalised only when its future recoverability can be reasonably assured and both its technical feasibility the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In the event that an asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from and commercial viability can be demonstrated.
The capitalised expenditure represents costs directly attributable to the development other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
of the asset from the point at which the above criteria are met up to the point at which the product is ready to use.
If the qualifying conditions are Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable not met, such development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income The intangible asset is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
less any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the related asset which h Other investments management estimate to be no more than three years.
Other investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
f Property, plant and equipment and depreciation Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated i Inventories and work in progress Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, after depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
making allowance for slow-moving and obsolete items.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets and freehold properties at rates calculated to write off the cost over the estimated Cost represents the expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their present location and condition.
The cost is useful lives, on a straight-line basis, as follows: calculated on a FIFO basis.
Freehold properties 2% per annum of cost excluding land Short leasehold properties Length of lease Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all Office equipment and fixtures estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, and fittings 10% to 50% per annum of cost selling and distribution.
Vehicles 25% per annum of cost Computer equipment 33% per annum of cost
