Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 101 32.
Contingent liabilities The Company is party with other group companies to cross guarantees of each others bank and other borrowings, commitments and overdrafts of 551.3m 2012: 390.8m.
The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, party to legal proceedings and claims that are in the ordinary course of business.
The Directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the groups financial position.
Deferred contingent consideration relating to acquisitions has been accrued at the Directors best estimate of the likely future obligation of 8.0m 2012: 1.2m per Note 26.
The actual amounts payable may vary up to a maximum of 8.0m 2012: 1.2m dependent upon the results of the acquired businesses.
In addition, the group and its subsidiaries have provided guarantees and indemnities in respect of performance, issued by financial institutions on its behalf, amounting to 30.6m 2012: 33.2m in the ordinary course of business.
These are not expected to result in any material financial loss.
Operating lease arrangements The group as lessee 2013 2012 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year 15.8 13.2 At the balance sheet date, the group had total outstanding aggregate commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2013 2012 m m Within one year 22.0 11.7 In the second to fifth years inclusive 32.2 22.5 After five years 3.5 4.7 57.7 38.9 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the group for certain of its office properties and hire of vehicles and other equipment.
These leases have average durations ranging from three to ten years.
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
During the year, Management took the decision to perform a sale and operating leaseback on its commercial vans.
Approximately 1,830 vehicles were sold and leased back.
These vehicles had a carrying value of 15.6m and were sold for a fair market value of 17.8m.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share option schemes The Company has six share option schemes: Discretionary share plans: The MITIE Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP was introduced in 2007.
The awards of shares or rights to acquire shares the awards are offered to a small number of key senior management.
Where offered as options the exercise price is nil.
The vesting period is three years.
If the awards remain unexercised after a period of four years from the date of grant, the awards expire.
The awards may be forfeited if the employee leaves the group.
Before the awards can be exercised, a performance condition must be satisfied: the number of awards that vest is determined by a sliding scale based on growth in earnings per share over a three-year period.
The group also awards performance-related bonuses for Executive Directors which are deferred in shares and are accounted for as a share-based payment charge.
The MITIE Group PLC 2001 Executive share option scheme The Executive share option scheme exercise price is equal to the average market value of the shares over the five-day period immediately preceding the date of grant.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant the options expire.
Options may be forfeited if the employee leaves the group.
Before options can be exercised, a performance condition must be satisfied: the performance condition is linked to the percentage growth in earnings per share over a three-year period.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
