110 Notes to the Company financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 38.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by company law.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards and law.
As more fully detailed in the Directors report: Corporate governance statement, the Companys financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of the assets over their estimated useful lives and is calculated on a straight-line basis as follows: Plant and vehicles 310 years Software and development costs 510 years The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of tangible fixed assets is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is charged to the profit and loss account, net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
