70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
As more fully detailed in the Directors report, the groups financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The groups financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments which are required to be measured at fair value.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012.
The following amendments and interpretations are effective for the first time in the current year but have had no impact on the results or financial position of the group: Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures transfers of financial assets: Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes recovery of underlying assets: The following standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements: IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements presentation of items of Other Comprehensive Income: Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities: Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities: Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities: and Amendments resulting from May 2012 Improvements to IFRSs.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material financial impact on the groups financial statements in the period of initial application except as follows: Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits will impact the measurement of various components representing movements in the defined benefit pension obligation and associated disclosures, but not the groups total obligation.
The group will also be required to make additional narrative disclosures.
In the year ended 31 March 2014, comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2013 will be restated on a revised IAS 19 basis, which will result in a total pension cost of 5.4m and therefore a reduction in profit before tax of 2.5m.
There will be compensating adjustments in other comprehensive income, leaving equity unchanged.
It is estimated that the total pension cost relating to defined benefit schemes recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2014 will be approximately 7m on a revised IAS 19 basis.
This is an increase of 1.6m on the restated 2013 total pension cost of 5.4m, and an increase of 4.1m on the reported 2013 total pension cost of 2.9m.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards and interpretations at this stage.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
