70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Basis of preparation The groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore the group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
As more fully detailed in the Directors report, the groups financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The groups financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments which are required to be measured at fair value.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012.
The following amendments and interpretations are effective for the first time in the current year but have had no impact on the results or financial position of the group: Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures transfers of financial assets: Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes recovery of underlying assets: The following standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet effective and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements: IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement: Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements presentation of items of Other Comprehensive Income: Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities: Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities: Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities: and Amendments resulting from May 2012 Improvements to IFRSs.
The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material financial impact on the groups financial statements in the period of initial application except as follows: Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits will impact the measurement of various components representing movements in the defined benefit pension obligation and associated disclosures, but not the groups total obligation.
The group will also be required to make additional narrative disclosures.
In the year ended 31 March 2014, comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2013 will be restated on a revised IAS 19 basis, which will result in a total pension cost of 5.4m and therefore a reduction in profit before tax of 2.5m.
There will be compensating adjustments in other comprehensive income, leaving equity unchanged.
It is estimated that the total pension cost relating to defined benefit schemes recognised in the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2014 will be approximately 7m on a revised IAS 19 basis.
This is an increase of 1.6m on the restated 2013 total pension cost of 5.4m, and an increase of 4.1m on the reported 2013 total pension cost of 2.9m.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards and interpretations at this stage.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 71 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Significant accounting policies under IFRS The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the groups IFRS financial information are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of MITIE Group PLC and all its subsidiaries.
The financial statements of the parent company and subsidiaries are prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice with the exception of a small number of acquired entities.
Adjustments are made in the consolidated accounts to bring into line any dissimilar accounting policies that may exist between UK GAAP and IFRS.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from inter-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the group.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the group.
Interests of non-controlling interest shareholders are measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Changes in a parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for within shareholders equity.
No gain or loss is recognised on such transactions and goodwill is not re-measured.
Any difference between the change in the non-controlling interest and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Foreign currency The financial statements of each of the groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of nonmonetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the groups overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on their acquisition, are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated into sterling at average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity in the groups hedging and translation reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation shall be recognised in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue represents income recognised in respect of services provided during the period stated net of value added tax and is earned predominantly within the United Kingdom.
Revenue from a contract to provide services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract at the balance sheet date.
Revenue from time and material contracts is recognised at the contractual rates as labour hours and tasks are delivered and direct expenses incurred.
In other cases, where services provided reflect a contractual arrangement to deliver an indeterminate number of acts over the contract term, revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis unless this is not an accurate reflection of the work performed.
Where a straight-line basis is not appropriate, for example if specific works on contracts represent a significant element of the whole, revenue is recognised based on the percentage of completion method, based on the proportion of costs incurred at the balance sheet date relative to the total estimated cost of completing the contracted work.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 72 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Revenue from long-term contracts represents the sales value of work done in the year, including fees invoiced and estimates in respect of amounts to be invoiced after the year end.
Profits are recognised on long-term contracts where the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty.
In calculating this, the percentage of completion method is used based on the proportion of costs incurred to the total estimated cost.
Cost includes direct staff costs and outlays.
Full provision is made for all known or anticipated losses on each contract immediately such losses are forecast.
Gross amounts due from customers are stated at the proportion of the anticipated net sales value earned to date less amounts billed on account.
To the extent that fees paid on account exceed the value of work performed, they are included in creditors as gross amounts due to customers.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
It is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 73 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost less expected residual value of the assets over their estimated useful lives and is calculated on a straight-line basis as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property 50 years Leasehold improvements period of the lease Plant and vehicles 310 years Annually the group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Intangible assets Intangible assets identified in a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Software and development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset if the asset created can be identified, if it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits and if the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that they may be impaired.
Amortisation expense is charged to administrative expenses in the income statement on a straight-line basis over its useful life.
Joint ventures and associates The group has an interest in joint ventures which are entities in which the group has joint control of financial and operating policies.
The group also has an interest in associates which are entities in which the group has significant influence.
The group accounts for its interest in joint ventures and associates using the equity method.
Under the equity method the groups share of the post-tax result of joint ventures and associates is reported as a single line item in the consolidated income statement.
The groups interest in joint ventures and associates is carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the groups share of net assets.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs represent materials, direct labour and overheads incurred in bringing the inventories to their present condition and location.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and estimated selling costs.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Bid, mobilisation and pre-contract costs Rendering of services All bid costs are expensed through the income statement up to the point where contract award or full recovery of the costs is virtually certain.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 74 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies The confirmation of the preferred bidder for a contract by a client is the point at which the award of a contract is considered to be virtually certain.
Costs incurred after that point, but before the commencement of services under the contract, are defined as mobilisation costs.
These costs are capitalised and included within trade and other receivables on the balance sheet provided that the costs relate directly to the contract, are separately identifiable, can be measured reliably and that the future net cash inflows from the contract are estimated to be no less than the amounts capitalised.
The capitalised mobilisation costs are amortised over the life of the contract, generally on a straight-line basis, or on a basis to reflect the profile of work to be performed over the life of the contract if the straight-line basis is not considered to be appropriate for the specific contract to which the costs relate.
If the contract becomes loss making, any unamortised costs are written off immediately.
Construction contracts In the case of construction contracts, pre-contract costs that are direct costs associated with securing a contract and which can be separately identified and measured reliably are included in the cost of the contract when the realisation of income from the contract is virtually certain.
Their treatment is as for mobilisation costs above.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the groups balance sheet when the group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The group derecognises financial assets and liabilities only when the contractual rights and obligations are discharged or expire.
Assets that are assessed not to be individually impaired are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables includes the groups past experience of collecting payments, the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets comprise loans and receivables and are measured at initial recognition at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities comprise trade payables and financing liabilities including bank and other borrowings and are measured at initial recognition at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost with the exception of derivative financial instruments which are either classified as fair value through profit and loss or may be accounted for using hedge accounting.
Bank and other borrowings are stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The group uses derivative financial instruments including cross currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts to manage the groups exposure to financial risks associated with interest rates and foreign exchange.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value at the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value, determined by reference to market rates, at each balance sheet date and included as financial assets or liabilities as appropriate.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The group may designate certain hedging instruments including derivatives as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 75 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Fair value hedges Hedges are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
Cash flow hedges Hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in cash flows that are attributable to a particular risk associated with either a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity within the groups translation and hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the foreign currency exposure to changes in the groups share in the net assets of a foreign operation.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the groups translation and hedging reserve.
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the same way as exchange differences relating to the foreign operation as described above.
Leasing Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any lease incentives are amortised on a straight-line basis over the non-cancellable period for which the group has contracted to lease the asset, together with any further terms for which the group has the option to continue to lease the asset if, at the inception of the lease, it is judged to be reasonably certain that the group will exercise the option.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 76 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where applicable, the consideration for an acquisition includes any assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they result from additional information, obtained within one year from the acquisition date, about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are recognised in accordance with IAS 39, either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
Any business combinations prior to 1 April 2010 were accounted for using the standards in place prior to the adoption of IFRS 3 revised 2008 which differ in the following respects: transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs: contingent consideration was recognised if, and only if, the group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable: and subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
Share-based payments The group operates a number of executive and employee share option schemes.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value as at the date of grant is calculated using the Black-Scholes model and the corresponding expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Save As You Earn SAYE options are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme, resulting in an acceleration of the remainder of the related expense.
The group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 in respect of equity-settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 April 2005.
Retirement benefit costs The group operates and participates in a number of defined benefit schemes.
In respect of the schemes in which the group participates, the group accounts for its legal and constructive obligations over the period of its participation which is for a fixed period only.
In addition, the group operates a number of defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for all qualifying employees.
Payments to the defined contribution and stakeholder pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For the defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside profit and loss and presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
