GENERAL Shareholder Information Registered office and registered number Enquiring about your shareholding Moneysupermarket House If you want to ask, or need any information, about your shareholding, St Davids Park please contact our registrar see contact details in the opposite Ewloe column.
Alternatively, if you have internet access, you can access the Chester CH5 3UZ Groups shareholder portal at www.
6160943 where you can view and manage all aspects of your shareholding securely.
com Investor relations website The investor relations section of our website, Company Secretary www.
com, provides further information for Darren Drabble anyone interested in the Group.
In addition to the Annual Report and share price, Company announcements including the half year Financial advisors stockbrokers and full year results announcements and associated presentations Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited are also published there.
One Cabot Square London E14 4QJ Dividend mandates If you wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank or building UBS Limited society account, you should contact our registrar see contact 1 Finsbury Avenue details in the opposite column or visit the Groups shareholder London EC2M 2PP portal at www.
com where you can set up or amend a dividend mandate.
This method of payment Auditor removes the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post KPMG Audit Plc and ensures that your account is credited on the due date.
St James Square Manchester M2 6DS Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP You can choose to reinvest dividends received to purchase further Solicitors shares in the Company through a DRIP.
A DRIP application form is Herbert Smith Freehills LLP available from our registrar see contact details on the left.
Exchange House Primrose Street Share dealing service London EC2A 2HS You can buy or sell the Companys shares in a simple and convenient way via the Capita share dealing service either online Addleshaw Goddard LLP www.
Calls cost 100 Barbirolli Square 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open Manchester M2 3AB 8.00am-4.30pm Monday-Friday.
Principal bankers Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking to Lloyds Banking Group plc encourage shareholders to either buy or sell shares in the City Office Company.
Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take are PO Box 1000, BX1 1LT recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial advisor authorised by the Financial Services and Markets Financial PR Act 2000.
The Maitland Consultancy Limited Orion House Electronic communications 5 Upper St. Martins Lane You can elect to receive shareholder communications London electronically by contacting our registrar see contact details in the WC2H 9EA opposite column.
This will save on printing and distribution costs, creating environmental benefits.
When you register, you will be Registrar sent a notification to say when shareholder communications are Capita Asset Services available on our website and you will be provided with a link to The Registry that information.
34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements Kent BR3 4TU This Annual Report includes statements that are forward looking in nature.
Forward looking statements involve known and unknown Telephone: 0871 200 1536 UK risks, assumptions, uncertainties and other factors which may Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the are open 8.30am-5.30pm Monday-Friday Group to be materially different from any future results, 44 0 20 3008 2245 overseas performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements.
Except as required by the Listing Rules, E-mail: @capita.
co. uk Disclosure and Transparency Rules and applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update, revise or change any forward looking statements to reflect events or developments occurring on or after the date of this Annual Report.
com Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81
