180 Other information Glossary and denitions Business, financial and accounting ADASA Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary Corporate The UK Corporate Governance Code published by the of the Group incorporated in Chile and operating the Governance Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 and applicable Water concession in Chiles Antofagasta Region acquired Code to listed companies for reporting years beginning on from ECONSSA.
The code replaced the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance and ADR American Depositary Receipt.
wasrstapplied by the Group for the year ended AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate.
AMSA Antofagasta Minerals, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Desalant Desalant S. A. former owner of a desalination plant Group incorporated in Chile which acts as the corporate located in Antofagasta and acquired by the Group centre for the mining division.
Annual report The Annual Report and Financial Statements Directors The Directors of the Company.
Duluth Duluth Metals Limited, incorporated in Canada which has Antucoya Copper project located approximately 45 km east a 60% non-controlling interest in the Groups subsidiary ofMichilla.
The project is 70% owned by the Group.
ATI Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. a 30%-owned EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and associate of the Group incorporated in Chile and Amortisation.
operating the port in the city of Antofagasta.
ECONSSA Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. Australian Australian currency.
theChilean state-owned company which previously dollars operated the regulated and non-regulated water Banco fide Chile Banco fide Chile, a subsidiary of Quienco.
distribution business in Chiles Antofagasta Region Barrick Gold Barrick Gold Corporation, the joint venture partner of the formerly known as ESSAN.
El Tesoro Minera El Tesoro, a 70%-owned subsidiary of the Group Capex Capital expenditure s. incorporated in Chile a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Cash costs A measure of the cost of operational production Group until 25 August 2008, before the Marubeni expressed in terms of dollars per pound of payable transaction.
Cash costs are stated net of ENAP Empresa Nacional del Petrleo, the 40% joint venture by-product credits and include tolling charges for partner of the Group in Energa Andina S. A. concentrates for Los Pelambres and Esperanza.
Cash Encuentro Copper oxides and sulphide prospect located in the costs exclude depreciation, financial income and Centinela Mining District held through Compaa expenses, hedging gains and losses, exchange gains Contractual Minera Encuentro, a wholly-owned and losses and corporation tax.
subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile, formerly CCU Compaa fide Cerveceras Unidas S. A. an associate known as Caracoles.
Energa Energa Andina S. A. a 60%-owned joint venture entity Centinela Copper district located in the Antofagasta Region Andina S. A. of the Group incorporated in Chile.
Mining District ofChile, where El Tesoro and Esperanza are located.
Formerly known as the Sierra Gorda district.
Equatorial Equatorial Mining Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary CGU Cash-Generating Unit.
ofthe Group incorporated in Australia.
Esperanza Minera Esperanza, a 70%-owned subsidiary of the 2008 Combined The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance Group incorporated in Chile.
Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in June Esperanza Sur Copper prospect located in the Centinela Mining District 2008, which was applicable to listed companies for held through Esperanza.
reporting years beginning on or after 29 June 2008.
ESSAN Empresa fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. former name TheCombined Code was replaced with the 2010 UK ofECONSSA.
Compaa Compaa Minera Milpo S. A.
A. of Peru is a former owner FCA Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. a 50%-owned Minera Milpo of a 18.5% interest in Caracoles, acquired by the Group subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Bolivia.
FCAB Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, the Chilean name for Companies Principal legislation for United Kingdom company law.
the Antofagasta Railway Company plc, a wholly-owned Act 2006 subsidiary of the Group incorporated in the United Company Antofagasta plc.
Kingdom and operating a rail network in Chiles Continental Water which comes from the interior of land masses Antofagasta Region.
water including rain, snow, streams, rivers, lakes and FSA Financial Services Authority.
FTSE All-Share A  weighted index representing the Index performance of all eligible companies listed on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 181 FTSE 100 Index A  weighted index representing Quienco Quienco S. A. a Chilean financial and industrial theperformance of the 100 largest UK-domiciled blue conglomerate under the control of the Luksic family chip companies.
andlisted on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice or Generally Realised prices Effective sale price achieved comparing revenues Accepted Accounting Principles.
grossed up for tolling charges for concentrate with sales volumes.
Government The Government of the Republic of Chile.
Reko Diq Reko Diq is a substantial copper-gold porphyry district in Group Antofagasta plc and its subsidiary companies.
The Groups interest is held through Hedge Accounting treatment for derivatives financial instrument Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50-50 joint venture accounting permitted under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: with Barrick Gold Corporation of Canada.
Recognition and Measurement, which recognises the Run-of-river A type of hydroelectric plant using the ow of a stream offsetting effects on profit or loss of changes in the fair as it occurs and having little or no reservoir capacity values of a hedging instrument and the hedged item.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board.
SVS Superintendencia fide Valores y Seguros fide Chile, the IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Chilean securities regulator.
Telgrafo The former name of the Encuentro copper prospect IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
held through Esperanza and located in the Centinela Inversiones Inversiones Hornitos S. A. a 40%-owned associate of the Mining District.
Hornitos Group incorporated in Chile which owns the 150MW Tethyan Tethyan Copper Company Limited, a 50%-owned joint Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones in venture entity of the Group incorporated in Australia.
TSR Total Shareholder Return, being the movement in the IVA Impuesto al Valor Agregado, or Chilean Value Added Tax Companys share price plus reinvested dividends.
Turnbull The revised guidance on internal control for directors Key Persons with authority and responsibility for planning, Guidance onCombined Code issued by the Turnbull Review Group Management directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Personnel Twin Metals Twin Metals Minnnesota LLC, a 40%-owned subsidiary KPI Key performance indicator.
of the Group incorporated in the United States.
LIBOR London Inter Bank Offer Rate.
2010 UK The UK Corporate Code published by the Financial Los Pelambres Minera Los Pelambres, a 60%-owned subsidiary of the Corporate Reporting Council in May 2010 and applicable to listed Group incorporated in Chile.
Governance companies for reporting years beginning on or after LSE London Stock Exchange.
The code replaced the 2008 Combined LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate.
Madeco Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority.
Marubeni Marubeni Corporation, the Groups 30% minority partner US United States.
in El Tesoro, Esperanza and Antucoya.
US dollars United States currency.
Michilla Minera Michilla S. A. a 74.2%-owned subsidiary of the Group incorporated in Chile.
Mirador Copper oxide deposit which forms part of the El Tesoro operation.
Mulpun Coal gasication project located near Valdivia in southern Chile.
Provisional A sales term in several copper and molybdenum pricing concentrate sale agreements and cathodes sale agreements which provides for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average LME copper price or monthly average molybdenum price for specic future periods, normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer.
For the purposes of IAS 39, the provisional sale is considered to contain an embedded derivative ie the forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently adjusted which is separated from the host contract ie the sale of metals contained in the concentrate or cathode at the provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted.
182 Other information Glossary and denitions Mining industry Browneld A development or exploration project in the vicinity Oxide and Different kinds of ore containing copper.
Oxide ore project of an existing operation.
Sulphide ores occurs on the weathered surface of ore-rich lodes and normally results in the production of cathode copper By-products Products obtained as result of copper processing.
Sulphide ore comes credits in LosPelambres and Esperanza receive credit for the from an unweathered parent ores process and normally copper goldand silver content in the copper concentrate sold.
results in the production of concentrate through a concentrates Los Pelambres also produces molybdenum concentrate.
otation process which then requires smelting and Concentrate The product of a physical concentration process, such rening to produce cathode copper.
as otation or gravity concentration, which involves Payable copper The proportion or quantity of contained copper for which separating ore minerals from unwanted wasted rock.
payment is received after metallurgical deduction.
Concentrates require subsequent processing such as smelting or leaching to break down or dissolve the ore Porphyry A large body of rock which contains disseminated minerals and obtain the desired elements, usually metals.
chalcopyrite and other sulphide minerals.
Such a deposit is mined in bulk on a large scale, generally in open pits, Contained The proportion or quantity of copper contained in a given for copper and its by-product molybdenum.
copper quantity of ore or concentrate.
Price Part of the tolling charges for copper concentrate under Copper cathode Rened copper produced by electrolytic rening participation a sales agreement, usually in addition to TC RCs and ofimpure copper by electro-winning.
calculated as a percentage of the difference between Cut-off grade The lowest grade of mineralised material considered the copper price at final pricing and an agreed reference economic to process and used in the calculation of ore copper price, and which may result in an increase or reserves and mineral resources.
Flotation A process by which chemicals are added to materials Price sharing Tolling charges calculated under a sales agreement ina solution which are attracted to bubbles and oat, asan agreed percentage of the price for the metal while other materials sink, resulting in the production contained in copper concentrate, as an alternative to ofconcentrate.
TC RCs and or price participation.
Grade A copper Highest quality copper cathode LME registered and Run-of-Mine A process for the recovery of copper from ore, typically cathode certicated in the case of El Tesoro and Michilla.
ROM used for low-grade ores.
The mined, uncrushed ore is Greeneld The development or exploration of a new project not leached with a chemical solution.
The metal is then project previously examined.
recovered from the solution through the SX-EW process.
Heap-leaching A process for the recovery of copper from ore.
Stockpile Material extracted and piled for future use.
Thecrushed material is laid on a slightly sloping, SX-EW Solvent-Extraction and Electro-Winning.
A process for impermeable pad and leached by uniformly trickling extracting metal from an ore and producing pure metal.
gravity fed chemical solution through the beds to First the metal is leached into solution: the resulting ponds.
The metal is then recovered from the solution solution is then puried in the solvent-extraction process: through the SX-EW process.
the solution is then treated in an electro chemical JORC Joint Ore Reserves Committee of Australia.
process electro-winning to recover cathode copper.
Leaching The process by which a soluble mineral can be Tailings dam Construction used to deposit the rock waste which economically recovered by dissolution.
remains as a result of the concentrating process after LOM or The remaining life of a mine expressed in years, the recoverable minerals have been extracted in LifeofMine calculated by reference to scheduled production rates concentrate form.
ie comparing the rate at which ore is expected to be TC RCs Treatment and rening charges, being terms used to set extracted from the mine to current dened reserves.
the smelting and rening charge or margin for processing Mineral Material of intrinsic economic interest occurring in such copper concentrate and normally set either on an annual resources form and quantity that there are reasonable prospects basis or on a spot basis.
Mineral resources are Tolling charges Charges or margins for converting concentrate into stated inclusive of ore reserves, as dened by JORC.
These include TC RCs, price participation MW Megawatts one million watts.
and price sharing for copper concentrate and roasting Open pit Mine working or excavation which is open to the surface.
Ore Rock from which metal s or mineral s can be Tpd Tonnes per day, normally with reference to the quantity economically and legally extracted.
of ore processed over a given period of time expressed as a daily average.
Ore grade The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal content in an ore body or quantity of processed ore.
Underground Natural or man-made excavation under the surface mine of the Earth.
Ore reserves Part of Mineral Resources for which appropriate assessments have been carried out to demonstrate at agiven date extraction could be reasonably justied andwhich include consideration of and modication byrealistically assumed mining, metallurgical, economic, marketing, legal, environmental, social and governmental factors.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 183 Currency abbreviations $ US dollar.
Denitions and conversion of weights and measures lb pound.
