Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 113 Notes to the financial statements The Group has elected to early adopt the following standards, which have been 1 Basis of preparation endorsed by the European Union but which are only mandatory for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014: a Accounting standards applied IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International IFRS 11 Joint arrangements Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and with those parts of the Companies IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
For these purposes, IFRS comprise the standards issued by the International Accounting Standards IAS 27 Separate financial statements Board IASB and Interpretations issued by the International Financial IAS 28 Investment in associates and joint ventures Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC that have been endorsed by The nature and impact on the financial statements of the Group of those new theEuropean Union EU.
standards, amendments and interpretations are described below: The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Details of the factors which have been taken into account in assessing IAS 19 revised Employee benets the Groups going concern status are set out within the corporate IAS 19R includes a number of changes to the accounting for dened benefit governance report.
The principal change for the Group is the requirement for all actuarial gains and losses to be recognised immediately At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following through comprehensive income.
As the Groups plan which relates to Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial severance indemnity obligations is unfunded, the amendments to the standard statements were in issue but not yet effective: relating to the accounting for plan assets have not had an effect on the financial IFRS 9 Financial instruments statements of the Group.
IFRS 10 and 12 and IAS 27 Investment entities The standard has been applied retrospectively according to the transitional amendments provisions of the standard.
For the year ended 31 December 2012 actuarial IAS 36 amendments Recoverable amount disclosures for losses of $7.6 million have been reclassied from the income statement and non-financial assets included in other comprehensive income.
In the year ended 31 December IAS 39 amendments Novation of derivatives and continuation 2013 an actuarial loss of $10.4 million has been included in other of hedge accounting comprehensive income.
IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies IFRS 13 Fair value measurement The adoption of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classication and IFRS 13 establishes a single framework for measuring fair value.
When an item measurement of the Groups financial assets in particular as the standard is required or permitted to be measured at fair value by another standard, the introduces new classications of financial assets.
fair value is determined according to the framework established in IFRS 13.
IFRS 10 and 12 and IAS 27 amendments, issued in October 2012, IFRS 13 includes a new denition of fair value that emphasises that fair value introduced an exception to the principle in IFRS 10 that all subsidiaries shall be is a market-based measurement.
The main impact of this for the Group has consolidated.
The amendments define an investment entity and require a parent been to incorporate an element of own credit risk in the valuation of financial that is an investment entity to measure its investments in particular subsidiaries liabilities.
In accordance with the transitional provisions of IFRS 13 the amended at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9.
The Group does valuation methodology has been applied prospectively from 1 January 2013, not expect this will have a significant impact.
and accordingly has not impacted the prior period comparative gures.
The net impact in the year ended 31 December 2013 in comparison with the previous IAS 36 amendments requires the disclosure of information about the fair value methodology has been a gain of $0.3 million in equity relating to the recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value less Groups interest rate swaps and a loss of less than $0.1 million in profit and loss costs of disposal.
relating to the Groups commodity derivatives.
IAS 39 amendments sets out amendments to IAS 39 Financial Instruments: The application of IFRS 13 has not had a significant impact on any other items Recognition and Measurement when the hedging relationship in which a measured at fair value.
derivative has been designated as a hedging instrument in accordance with IFRS 13 requires specic disclosures on fair values.
The Group provides these IAS39 in a circumstance in which that derivative is novated to a central disclosures in Note 24. counterparty CCP following the introduction of a new law or regulation.
The Group is assessing the impact of the adoption of IAS 39 amendments IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine butdoes not expect it to have a significant impact.
IFRIC 20 claries the requirements for stripping costs in the production phase IFRIC interpretation 21 addresses the accounting for a liability to pay a levy if ofa surface mine.
that liability is within the scope of IAS 37.
It also addresses the accounting for a The adoption of IFRIC 20 has not had a significant impact on the accounting for liability to pay a levy whose timing and amount is certain.
The Group does not operational stripping costs by the Group.
The ongoing mining and development expect it to have a significant impact.
of the Groups open-pit mines is generally performed via a succession of individual phases.
The costs of extracting material from an open-pit mine b Adoption of new accounting standards are generally allocated between ore and waste-stripping in proportion to the The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations became tonnes of material extracted.
Waste-stripping costs are generally absorbed into effective in the current reporting period: inventory and expensed as that inventory is processed and sold.
Where the stripping costs relate to a significant stripping campaign which is expected to IAS 19 revised Employee benets provide improved access to an identiable component of the ore body typically IFRS 13 Fair value measurement an individual phase within the overall mine plan, the costs of removing waste IFRIC 20 Stripping costs in the production phase of a surface mine in order to improve access to that part of the ore body are capitalised within mining properties within property, plant and equipment.
The capitalised costs 114 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements IFRS 11 Joint arrangements and IAS 28 Investment in associates 1 Basis of preparation continued and joint ventures are then amortised on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Joint ventures and establishes principles for financial ore extracted compared with the total ore contained in the component of the pit reporting by parties to a joint arrangement.
Under IFRS 11 the classication to which the stripping campaign relates.
of joint arrangements has changed.
Investments in joint arrangements are classied as either joint ventures or joint operations based on the rights and The standard has been applied retrospectively with effect from 1 January obligations of the parties to the arrangement.
2012 according to the transitional provisions of the standard.
As at 1 January 2012 the Group did not have any capitalised or deferred operational stripping In assessing the joint arrangements to which the Group is currently party, costs.
During 2012 the Group had capitalised $56.6 million of operational consideration was given to the legal form of the arrangement, the terms of the stripping costs.
These amounts have been reviewed and are in compliance contractual arrangement and any relevant facts and circumstances.
The Group with the requirements of IFRIC 20, and accordingly no restatement of the prior has determined its interests in joint arrangements to be joint ventures in terms period comparative gures has been required by the adoption of the new ofIFRS 11.
In the year ended 31 December 2013 a further $99.6 million Under the superseded IAS 31 the Group applied the option to account for ofoperational stripping costs has been capitalised by the Group.
joint ventures using proportionate consolidation.
IFRS 11 removes this option and requires joint arrangements that are joint ventures to be accounted for IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements and IAS 27 Separate using the equity method.
The standard has been applied retrospectively in financial statements accordance with the transitional provisions of the standard.
The impact on the IFRS 10 replaces the parts of IAS 27 that dealt with consolidated financial Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 are set out statements.
IFRS 10 includes a new denition of control that contains three inthetable below.
elements: a power over an investee: b exposure, or rights, to variable returns from the investment with the investee: and c the ability to use its power IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities over the investee to affect the amount of the investors returns.
The adoption IFRS 12 includes disclosure requirements for entities that have interests in of IFRS10 has not had an impact on the consolidation of investments by subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates or unconsolidated structured the Group.
The Group has included additional disclosures to comply with the newrequirements set out in IFRS 12.
Impact of accounting standards, amendments and interpretations on prior period comparatives The following table sets out the impact of retrospectively applying IFRS 11 and IAS 19R for the year ended 31 December 2012: Year ended 31.12.12 Year ended as previously 31.12.12 stated IFRS 11 IAS 19R restated $m $m $m $m Adjustments to Consolidated income statements Total operating costs 3,901.7 27.5 7.6 3,866.6 Share of results from associates and joint ventures 6.7 27.5 20.8 Income tax expense 1,020.6 1.6 1,022.2 profit for the financial year 1,733.6 6.0 1,739.6 Adjustments to the Consolidated statements of comprehensive income profit for the financial period 1,733.6 6.0 1,739.6 Actuarial losses on dened benefit plans 7.6 7.6 Tax on items recognised directly that will not be reclassied 1.6 1.6 Total comprehensive income for the period 1,761.5 1,761.5 Adjustments to the Consolidated balance sheets Investment in associates and joint ventures 107.6 1.1 106.5 Trade and other receivables 801.9 0.4 801.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1,815.9 4.6 1,811.3 Trade and other payables 710.2 5.7 704.5 Post-employment benefit obligations 81.9 0.4 81.5 Net assets 8,804.8 8,804.8 Adjustments to Consolidated cash ow statements Cash ow from operations 3,806.2 19.8 3,826.0 Capital contribution to associates and joint ventures 19.6 24.4 44.0 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 467.3 4.6 462.7 Adjustments to non-GAAP data EBITDA 3,829.3 27.5 7.6 3,864.4 The 2012 comparative gures in the notes to the financial statements have accordingly been restated to reect the impact of the adoption of IFRS II and IAS 19R.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 115 c Investments in associates 2 Principal accounting policies An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise a Accounting convention significant inuence, but not control or joint control, through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of that entity.
These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these convention as modied by the use of fair values to measure certain financial consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
instruments, principally provisionally priced sales as explained in Note 2 f and This requires recording the investment initially at cost to the Group and then, in financial derivative contracts as explained in Note 2 y. subsequent periods, adjusting the carrying amount of the investment to reect the Groups share of the associates results less any impairment and any other b Basis of consolidation changes to the associates net assets such as dividends.
When the Groups The financial statements comprise the consolidated financial statements of share of losses of an associate exceeds the Groups interest in that associate Antofagasta plc the Company and its subsidiaries collectively the Group.
the Group discontinues recognising its share of further losses.
Additional losses i Subsidiaries A subsidiary is an entity over which the Group has are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or power to govern the operating and financial policies in order to obtain constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
The consolidated financial statements include d Joint arrangements all the assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash ows of the Company and its subsidiaries after eliminating inter-company balances A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have and transactions.
For partly-owned subsidiaries, the net assets and joint control.
Joint arrangements are accounted depending on the nature net earnings attributable to non-controlling shareholders are presented ofthe arrangement.
as Non-controlling interests in the consolidated balance sheet and i Joint ventures are accounted for using equity method in accordance consolidated income statement.
with IAS 28 2011 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures as Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle described in Note 2 c. their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the ii Joint operations are accounted for recognising directly the assets, event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the obligations, revenues and expenses of the joint operator in the joint non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts arrangement.
The assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are of the acquirees identiable net assets.
The choice of measurement accounted for in accordance with the relevant IFRS.
basis is made on an  basis.
Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, When a Group entity transacts with its joint arrangements, profits and losses on the basis specified in another IFRS.
Subsequent to acquisition, the resulting from the transactions with the joint arrangements are recognised in the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those Groups consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of joint arrangements that are not related to the Group.
Total comprehensive income is attributed e Currency translation to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as Changes in the Groups ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity as equity transactions.
The carrying amounts of the Groups interests are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reect the changes in Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the functional currency are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
Gains and amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair losses on retranslation are included in net profit or loss for the period within value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity other finance items.
and attributed to owners of the Company.
The presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is Company is the US dollar.
On consolidation, income statement items for entities recognised in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference between with a functional currency other than the US dollar are translated into US dollars i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the at average rates of exchange.
Balance sheet items are translated at period-end fair value of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount exchange rates.
Exchange differences on translation of the net assets of such ofthe assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any entities are taken to equity and recorded in a separate currency translation non-controlling interests.
When assets of the subsidiary are carried at reserve.
Cumulative translation differences arising after the transition date to revalued amounts or fair values and the related cumulative gain or loss IFRS are recognised as income or as expenses in the income statement in the has been recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated period in which an operation is disposed of.
in equity, the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive On consolidation, exchange gains and losses which arise on balances between income and accumulated in equity are accounted for as if the Group had Group entities are taken to reserves where that balance is, in substance, part of directly disposed of the relevant assets ie reclassied to profit or loss or the net investment in a foreign operation, ie where settlement is neither planned transferred directly to retained earnings as specified by applicable IFRSs.
nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
All other exchange gains and losses The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the on Group balances are dealt with in the income statement.
date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition Fair value adjustments and any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign for subsequent accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: entity are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the periodRecognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the cost on initial end rate.
recognition of an investment in an associate or a jointly controlled entity.
Acquisitions and disposals are treated as explained in Note 2 g relating to business combinations and goodwill.
116 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with 2 Principal accounting policies continued corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the f Revenue recognition measurement period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
Revenue represents the value of goods and services supplied to third parties during the year.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent or receivable, and excludes any applicable sales tax.
consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments A sale is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have depends on how the contingent consideration is classied.
This is generally when title and any insurance risk has passed to the consideration that is classied as equity is not remeasured at subsequent customer, and the goods have been delivered to a contractually agreed location reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
or when any services have been provided.
Contingent consideration that is classied as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39, or IAS 37 Provisions, Revenue from mining activities is recorded at the invoiced amounts with an Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate.
adjustment for provisional pricing at each reporting date, as explained below.
For copper and molybdenum concentrates, which are sold to smelters and When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously held roasting plants for further processing, the invoiced amount is the market value equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date of the metal payable by the customer, net of deductions for tolling charges.
ie the date when the Group obtains control and the resulting gain or loss, if Revenue includes amounts from the sale of by-products.
any, is recognised in profit or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode comprehensive income are reclassied to profit or loss where such treatment sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
of shipment, with final pricing based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange LME copper price or the monthly average market molybdenum If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from one to five months of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports after delivery to the customer.
Such a provisional sale contains an embedded provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
derivative which is required to be separated from the host contract.
The host Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period contract is the sale of metals contained in the concentrate or cathode at the see above, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reect new provisional invoice price less tolling charges deducted, and the embedded information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the derivative is the forward contract for which the provisional sale is subsequently acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised adjusted.
At each reporting date, the provisionally priced metal sales together atthat date.
with any related tolling charges are marked-to-market, with adjustments Goodwill arising in a business combination is measured as the excess of both gains and losses being recorded in revenue in the consolidated income the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling statement and in trade debtors in the balance sheet.
Forward prices at the interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity period end are used for copper concentrate and cathode sales, while periodinterest in the acquiree if any over the next identiable assets acquired and end average prices are used for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the liabilities assumed.
Any goodwill on the acquisition of subsidiaries is separately absence of a futures market.
disclosed, while any goodwill on the acquisition of associates is included within Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal investments in equity accounted entities.
Internally generated goodwill is not outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that recognised.
Where the fair values of the identiable net assets acquired exceed exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life the sum of the consideration transferred, the surplus is credited to the profit or ofthenancial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
loss in the period of acquisition as a bargain purchase gain.
Dividend income from available-for-sale investments and associates The Group often enters into earn-in arrangements whereby the Group acquires is recognised when the shareholders right to receive payment has an interest in a project company in exchange for funding exploration and been established.
evaluation expenditure up to a specified level of expenditure or a specified stage in the life of the project.
Funding is usually conditional on the achievement of g Business combinations and goodwill key milestones by the partner.
Typically there is no consideration transferred or funding liability on the effective date of acquisition of the interest in the project Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
company and no goodwill is recognised on this type of business combination.
The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair The results of businesses sold during the year are included in the consolidated value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of financial statements for the period up to the effective date of disposal.
Gains or the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the losses on disposal are calculated as the difference between the sales proceeds former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in net of expenses and the net assets attributable to the interest which has exchange for control of the acquiree.
The results of businesses acquired during been sold.
Where a disposal represents a separate major line of business or the year are brought into the consolidated financial statements from the effective geographical area of operations, the net results attributable to the disposed date of acquisition.
The identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities entity are shown separately in the income statement.
of a business which can be measured reliably are recorded at their provisional fair values at the date of acquisition.
Provisional fair values are nalised within h Exploration and evaluation expenditure 12 months of the acquisition date.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Exploration and evaluation costs, other than those incurred in acquiring When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination exploration licences, are expensed in the year in which they are incurred.
includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration When a mining project is considered to be commercially viable normally when arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date the project has completed a pre-feasibility study, and the start of a feasibility fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business study has been approved all further directly attributable pre-production combination.
Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 117 expenditure is capitalised.
Capitalisation of pre-production expenditure ceases An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic when commercial levels of production are achieved.
benets are expected from use or disposal.
Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between the Costs incurred in acquiring exploration licences are accounted for as intangible net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are recognised assets in accordance with the policy in Note 2 j and are stated at cost less inprot or loss when the asset is derecognised.
k Property, plant and equipment i Stripping costs The costs of mining properties and leases, which include the costs of acquiring Pre-stripping and operational stripping costs are incurred in the course of the and developing mining properties and mineral rights, are capitalised as development and operation of open-pit mining operations.
property, plant and equipment in the year in which they are incurred, when Pre-stripping costs relate to the removal of waste material as part of the a mining project is considered to be commercially viable normally when the initial development of an open-pit, in order to allow access to the ore body.
project has completed a pre-feasibility study, and the start of a feasibility study These costs are capitalised within mining properties within property, plant and has been approved.
The cost of property, plant and equipment comprises equipment.
The capitalised costs are depreciated once production commences the purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in tothe location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the the year compared with total proven and probable reserves for that pit at the manner intended.
Once a project has been established as commercially viable, beginning of the year.
related development expenditure is capitalised.
This includes costs incurred Operational stripping costs relate to the costs of extracting waste material as in preparing the site for mining operations, including pre-stripping costs.
part of the ongoing mining process.
The ongoing mining and development Capitalisation ceases when the mine is capable of commercial production, of the Groups open-pit mines is generally performed via a succession of withthe exception of development costs which give rise to a future benefit.
The costs of extracting material from an open-pit mine are Interest on borrowings directly related to construction or development of generally allocated between ore and waste-stripping in proportion to the tonnes projects is capitalised, until such time as the assets are substantially ready of material extracted.
The waste-stripping costs are generally absorbed into fortheir intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, is when inventory, and expensed as that inventory is processed and sold.
Where the they are capable of commercial production.
stripping costs relate to a significant stripping campaign which is expected to provide improved access to an identiable component of the ore body typically l Depreciation of property, plant and equipment an individual phase within the overall mine plan, the costs of removing waste and amortisation of intangible assets in order to improve access to that part of the ore body will be capitalised within mining properties within property, plant and equipment.
The capitalised costs Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the will then be amortised on a unit of production basis, in proportion to the volume remaining life of the operation if shorter, to residual value.
The major categories of ore extracted compared with the total ore contained in the component of the of property, plant and equipment are depreciated as follows: pit to which the stripping campaign relates.
i Land freehold land is not depreciated unless the value of the land is considered to relate directly to a particular mining operation, in which j Intangible assets case the land is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected Intangible assets with nite useful lives that are acquired separately are mine life.
Any leasehold land is depreciated on a straight-line basis over carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment the life of the lease.
Intangible assets include the cost of acquiring exploration licences.
ii Mining properties mining properties, including capitalised nancing Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful costs, are depreciated on a unit of production basis, in proportion to lives.
The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the volume of ore extracted in the year compared with total proven and the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
being accounted for on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets with indefinite iii Buildings and infrastructure straight-line basis over 10 to 25 years.
useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated iv Railway track including trackside equipment straight-line basis impairment losses.
Infrastructure assets relating to the Water concession are recorded within v Wagons and rolling stock straight-line basis over 10 to 20 years.
intangible assets, as part of concession rights.
Concession rights also include an amount recognised in respect of the right to use those assets not recognised vi Machinery, equipment and other assets are depreciated on a as their lives extend substantially beyond the period of the concession.
unit ofproduction basis, in proportion to the volume of ore material Concession rights are measured as the difference between the cost of the processed or straight-line basis over 5 to 20 years.
concession and the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised on vii Assets under construction no depreciation until asset is available acquisition plus the fair value of any further assets transferred to the Group by for use.
way of concession subsequent to acquisition.
viii Assets held under finance lease are depreciated over the shorter Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised separately ofthe lease term and their useful life.
from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date Residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at which is regarded as their cost.
least annually, and changes to residual values and useful lives are accounted Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business for prospectively.
combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortisation and The concession right is amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets concession, or the useful life of any component part if less.
118 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements production cost and for raw materials and consumables it is purchase price.
2 Principal accounting policies continued Production cost includes: labour costs, raw material costs and other costs directly attributable to m Impairment of property, plant and equipment theextraction and processing of ore: and intangible assets excluding goodwill depreciation of plant, equipment and mining properties directly involved Property, plant and equipment and nite life intangible assets are reviewed intheproduction process: and for impairment if there is any indication that the carrying amount may not be an appropriate portion of production overheads.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is Stockpiles represent ore that is extracted and is available for further processing.
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment if any.
Where the Costs directly attributable to the extraction of ore are generally allocated asset does not generate cash ows that are independent from other assets, the aspart of production cost in proportion to the tonnes of material extracted.
Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which Operational stripping costs are generally absorbed into inventory, and therefore the asset belongs.
Any intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for expensed as that inventory is processed and sold.
If ore will not be processed impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may within 12 months of the statement of financial position date it is included within be impaired.
If there is significant uncertainty as to when any stockpiled Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in ore will be processed it is expensed as incurred.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash ows are discounted to their present value, using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market p Taxation assessments of the time value of money and the risks specic to the asset for which estimates of future cash ows have not been adjusted.
Tax expense comprises the charges or credits for the period relating to both current and deferred tax.
For mining properties, estimates of future cash ows are based on assumptions as to expected production levels, commodity prices, cash costs of production Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit may differ from and capital expenditure.
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets includes a number of net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of restrictions on the future cash ows that can be recognised in respect of future income or expense that are taxable and deductible in different years and also restructurings and improvement-related expenditure.
When calculating value excludes items that are not taxable or deductible.
The liability for current tax is in use, it also requires that calculations should be based on exchange rates calculated using tax rates for each entity in the consolidated financial statements current at the time of assessment.
For operations with a functional currency which have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
other than the US dollar, the impairment review is conducted in the relevant Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary functional currency.
differences ie differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount is reduced to the recoverable sheet liability method and is provided on all temporary differences with certain amount.
An impairment charge is recognised in the income statement limited exceptions as follows: immediately.
Where an impairment subsequently reverses, the carrying amount is increased to the revised estimate of recoverable amount, but so that the i tax payable on undistributed earnings of subsidiaries, associates and increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying value that would have joint ventures is provided except where the Group is able to control the been determined if no impairment had previously been recognised.
A reversal remittance of profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance isrecognised in the income statement immediately.
ofpast profits earned in the foreseeable future: ii deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of an asset or n Investment property liability in a transaction that does not affect accounting profit or taxable Investment property is property held to earn rentals and or for capital profit and is not a business combination: nor is deferred tax provided on appreciation and includes land held for a currently undetermined future subsequent changes in the carrying value of such assets and liabilities, use.
The Group has elected to adopt the cost model in IAS 40 Investment for example where they are depreciated: and Property.
Accordingly, investment property is measured initially at cost, which iii the initial recognition of any goodwill.
includes transaction costs for the acquisition of the property and, as detailed Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that they inNote 2 l relating to property, plant and equipment, is not depreciated.
will be recovered through sufficient future taxable profit.
The carrying amount ofdeferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
o Inventory Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the Inventory consists of raw materials and consumables, work-in-progress and period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged nished goods.
Work-in-progress represents material that is in the process or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged of being converted into nished goods.
The conversion process for mining orcredited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also taken directly operations depends on the nature of the copper ore. For sulphide ores, to equity.
processing includes milling and concentrating and results in the production of copper concentrate.
For oxide ores, processing includes leaching of stockpiles, q Provisions solution extraction and electro-winning and results in the production of copper Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or cathodes.
Finished goods consist of copper concentrate containing gold and constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be silver at Los Pelambres and Esperanza and copper cathode at El Tesoro and required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the Michilla.
Los Pelambres also produces molybdenum as a by-product.
Inventory is valued at the lower of cost, on a weighted average basis, and The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration net realisable value.
Net realisable value represents estimated selling price required to settle the present obligation at the end of the reporting period, taking less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Cost of nished goods and work-in-progress is Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 119 provision is measured using the cash ows estimated to settle the present value ofthe severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses are obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash ows when immediately recognised in other comprehensive income.
the effect of the time value of money is material.
v Cash and cash equivalents When some or all of the economic benets required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, deposits held on call with asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount banks, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of the receivable can be measured reliably.
of cash and which are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value, net of bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand.
Cash and cash equivalents r Provisions for decommissioning and restoration costs normally have a maturity period of 90 days or less.
An obligation to incur decommissioning and restoration costs occurs when w Liquid investments environmental disturbance is caused by the development or ongoing production of a mining property.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan Liquid investments represent highly liquid current asset investments that do and are subject to regular formal review.
not meet the IAS 7 denition of cash and cash equivalents, normally because even if readily accessible, the underlying investments have an average maturity Such costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation prole greater than 90 days from the date first entered into.
These assets are work, discounted to their net present value, are provided and capitalised at designated as fair value through profit or loss.
the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These decommissioning costs are charged against profits over the life of the x Leases mine, through depreciation of the asset and unwinding or amortisation of the discount on the provision.
Depreciation is included in operating costs while Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the income statement the unwinding of the discount is included as nancing costs.
Changes in the account in equal annual amounts over the term of the lease.
measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site Assets under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at inception preparation work are added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset of the lease at the lower of fair value or the present value of the minimum in the current period.
lease payments derived by discounting at the interest rate implicit in the lease.
The costs for restoration of site damage, which is created on an ongoing basis The interest element is charged within nancing costs so as to produce a during production, are provided for at their net present values and charged constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
against operating profits as extraction progresses.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to site damage created during production is charged against y Other financial instruments operating profit.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of s Provision for termination of Water concession the instrument.
Under the terms of the Water concession from ECONSSA, certain items of i Investments Investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or working capital recognised by Aguas fide Antofagasta are to be transferred joint ventures are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
to the state-owned operator ECONSSA at the end of the concession period Investments are classied as either held for trading or available-forfor nil consideration.
Provision is made for the estimated net present value of sale, and are normally measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair these assets and liabilities which are expected to be in existence when the value.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 25 b. concession comes to an end.
The unwinding of the discount is charged within Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price nancing costs.
in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are t Share-based payment measured at cost.
Securities are classied as held-for-trading when they are acquired principally for the purpose of sale in the short term, For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for the goods and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At the profit or loss for the period.
Other investments are classied as availableend of each reporting period until the liability is settled, and at the date of for-sale, and gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with any changes in fair recognised directly in equity, within the Fair value reserve, until the value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
The Group currently does not security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time haveanyequity share-based payments to employees or third parties.
the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in profit or loss for the period.
Dividends on available-for-sale equity u Post-employment benets investments are recognised in the income statement when the right The Group operates dened contribution schemes for a limited number of toreceive payment is established.
For such schemes, the amount charged to the income statement ii Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables do not isthe contributions paid or payable in the year.
generally carry any interest and are normally stated at their nominal Employment terms may also provide for payment of a severance indemnity value less any impairment.
Impairment losses on trade receivables when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate arerecognised within an allowance account unless the Group considers of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as that no recovery of the amount is possible, in which case the carrying to the number of qualifying years of service and based on final salary level.
value of the asset is reduced directly.
The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded dened benefit iii Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are generally plan, and the calculation is based on valuations performed by an independent notinterest-bearing and are normally stated at their nominal value.
actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present 120 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash ows, 2 Principal accounting policies continued discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Any impairment loss is iv Borrowings loans and preference shares Interest-bearing loans recognised in profit or loss immediately.
and bank overdrafts are initially recorded at the proceeds received, net The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables.
using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised With the exception of available-for-sale equity instruments, if, in a on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through loss is reversed through profit or loss immediately to the extent that the the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed period.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals impairment not been recognised.
In respect of available-for-sale equity basis using the effective interest rate method.
Amounts are either instruments, any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss recorded as nancing costs in profit or loss or capitalised in accordance is recognised directly in equity.
with the accounting policy set out in Note 2 k. Finance charges are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they 3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources are not settled in the period in which they arise.
of estimation uncertainty The sterling-denominated preference shares issued by the Company carry a xed rate of return without the right to participate in any surplus.
Determining many of the amounts included in the financial statements involves They are accordingly classied within borrowings and translated into US the use of judgement and or estimation.
These judgements and estimates dollars at period-end rates of exchange.
Preference share dividends are are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and included within finance costs.
circumstances having regard to prior experience, but actual results may differ v Equity instruments Equity instruments issued are recorded at the from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments of the judgements and estimates is included in the principal accounting policies in Company comprise its sterling denominated issued ordinary share Note 2 or the other notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are capital and related share premium.
As explained in Note 2 e, the setout below.
presentational currency of the Group and the functional currency of the Company is US dollars, and ordinary share capital and share premium a Capitalisation of property, plant and equipment and are translated into US dollars at historical rates of exchange based on of project costs dates of issue.
As explained in Note 2 k the costs of developing mining properties are vi Derivative financial instruments As explained in Note 24 d, the capitalised as property, plant and equipment in the year in which they Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce exposure to foreign are incurred, when the mining project is considered to be commercially exchange, interest rate and commodity price movements.
Management reviews amounts capitalised to ensure that the does not use such derivative instruments for trading purposes.
treatment of that expenditure as capital rather than operating expenditure is The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 reasonable, in particular in respect of the commercial viability of the project.
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The effective Commercial viability is normally considered to be demonstrable when the portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments project has completed a pre-feasibility study, and the start of a feasibility that are designated and qualify as hedges of future cash ows have studyhas been approved.
been recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in profit or loss in the period when the hedged item affects b Useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit and ore reserves estimates or loss.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised in profit or loss are recorded within revenue.
The time value element As explained in Note 2 l, mining properties, including capitalised nancing of changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from the costs, are depreciated in proportion to the volume of ore extracted in the year designated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in compared with total proven and probable reserves at the beginning of the year.
profit or loss within other finance items.
Derivatives embedded in other There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves, and financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate assumptions that were valid at the time of estimation may change when derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related new information becomes available.
These include assumptions as to grade to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at fair estimates and cut-off grades, recovery rates, commodity prices, exchange value.
Changes in fair value are reported in profit or loss for the period.
rates, production costs, capital costs, processing and reclamation costs and The treatment of embedded derivatives arising from provisionally-priced discount rates.
The actual volume of ore extracted and any changes in these commodity sales contracts is set out in further detail in Note 2 f relating assumptions could affect prospective depreciation rates and carrying values.
The majority of other items of property, plant and equipment are depreciated vii Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives.
Management reviews fair value through profit or loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment the appropriateness of useful economic lives at least annually and, again, any at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is changes could affect prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
objective evidence that as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash ows of the investment have been impacted.
For loans and receivables the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information A An nt to of fa agas gasta ta p pl lc c A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l Stta atte em me en ntts s 20 201 13 3 121 Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and in the case c Impairment of assets of capitalised decommissioning costs amortise these estimated costs over the As explained in Note 2 m, the Group reviews the carrying value of its intangible life of the mine.
The ultimate cost of decommissioning and site rehabilitation is assets and property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is uncertain and cost estimates can vary in response to many factors including any indication that those assets are impaired.
In making assessments for changes to relevant legal requirements, the emergence of new restoration impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash ows are allocated techniques or experience at other mine sites.
to an appropriate cash-generating unit CGU.
The recoverable amount of The expected timing and extent of expenditure can also change, for example those assets, or CGU, is measured at the higher of their fair value less costs in response to changes in ore reserves or processing levels.
As a result, there tosell and value in use.
could be significant adjustments to the provisions established which would Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets to CGUs, affect future financial results.
in estimating the probability, timing and value of underlying cash ows and in selecting appropriate discount rates to be applied within the value in use e Deferred taxation calculation.
The key assumptions are set out in Note 2 m and Note 5.
As explained in Note 2 p, deferred tax is not provided for future tax payable Subsequent changes to CGU allocation, licencing status, reserves and on undistributed earnings where the Group is able to control the remittance of resources, price assumptions or other estimates and assumptions in the value profits and it is probable that there will be no remittance of past profits earned in use calculation could impact the carrying value of the respective assets.
d Provisions for decommissioning and site restoration costs Management uses its judgement in estimating the probability of such remittances.
These are based on Group forecasts and include assumptions As explained in Note 2 r, provision is made, based on net present values, as to future profits and cash ows which depend on several factors including for decommissioning and site rehabilitation costs as soon as the obligation commodity prices, operating costs, production levels, capital expenditures, arises following the development or ongoing production of a mining property.
interest costs, debt repayment and tax rates and cash requirements which The provision is based on a closure plan prepared with the assistance of may also depend on several factors including future dividend levels.
the assumptions used or in the estimate as to the probability that past profits will be remitted would impact the deferred tax charge and balance sheet provision.
4 Exceptional item The exceptional item in the years ended 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 and their impact on the results are set out below.
Operating profit profit before tax Earnings per share 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 $m $m $m $m US cents US cents Before exceptional item 2,172.1 3,373.5 2,083.5 3,261.8 66.9 140.7 Provision against carrying value of assets 500.0 500.0 35.5 After exceptional item 2,172.1 2,873.5 2,083.5 2,761.8 66.9 105.2 2012 Provision against the carrying value of assets Development of the Antucoya project was temporarily suspended in December 2012 while a review of the project was undertaken.
An impairment review was performed in respect of the project as at 31 December 2012, and as a consequence an impairment of $500 million was recognised in respect of the projects assets at that date.
The Groups attributable share of the impairment was $350 million.
No tax credit was recorded relating to the impairment.
The recoverable amount in the impairment review was determined by a value in use calculation prepared using managements forecasts as to capital expenditure, future commodity prices, operating costs and production volumes.
The present value of the forecast future cash ows was calculated using a post-tax real discount rate of 7.5%.
The resumption of the project was announced on 27 March 2013 following conclusion of the project review.
There has been no adjustment to the impairment provision recorded in 2012 during the current year.
122 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 5 Segment information The Groups reportable segments are as follows: Los Pelambres Esperanza El Tesoro Michilla Antucoya Exploration and evaluation Railway and other transport services Water concession Corporate and other items For management purposes, the Group is organised into three business divisions based on their products Mining, Railway and other transport services and the Water concession.
The mining division is split further for management reporting purposes to show results by mine and exploration activity.
Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla are all operating mines and Antucoya is a development project.
Los Pelambres produces primarily copper concentrate and molybdenum as a by-product.
Esperanza produces primarily copper concentrate containing gold as a by-product.
El Tesoro and Michilla both produce copper cathodes.
The transport division provides rail cargo based in Chile and Bolivia and road cargo based in Chile together with a number of ancillary services based in Chile.
The water division produces and distributes potable water to domestic customers and untreated water to industrial customers in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
The Exploration and evaluation segment incurs exploration and evaluation expenses.
Corporate and other items also comprise costs incurred by the Company and Antofagasta Minerals, the Groups mining corporate centre, that are not allocated to any individual business segment.
Consistent with its internal management reporting, the Groups corporate and other items are included within the mining division.
Management monitors the operating results of business segments separately for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated and of assessing performance.
Segment performance is evaluated based on the operating profit of each of the segments.
Operating profit excludes the share of net loss from associates and joint venture of $14.4 million year ended 31 December 2012 net loss of $20.8 million.
Operating profit is shown after exceptional items see Note 4. ii Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
Revenue from the Railway and other transport services is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of $2.1 million year ended 31 December 2012 $6.2 million.
Revenue from the Water concession is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales to the mining division of $7.2 million year ended 31 December 2012 $6.8 million and after eliminating sales to the Railway and other transport services of $0.2 million year ended 31 December 2012 $0.2 million.
Revenue from Esperanza is stated after eliminating inter-segmental sales of the Run-of-Mine oxides to El Tesoro of $6.3 million year ended 31 December 2012 $4.8 million.
iii Revenue includes the effect of both final pricing and mark-to-market adjustments to provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates and copper cathodes.
Further details of such adjustments are given in Note 6. iv Revenue includes a realised gain at Michilla of $25.2 million year ended 31 December 2012 gain of $6.1 million and a realised gain at El Tesoro of $0.2 million year ended 31 December 2012 gain of $0.2 million relating to commodity derivatives.
In the prior year ended 31 December 2012 revenue also included a realised loss at Los Pelambres of $5.9 million relating to commodity derivatives.
Further details of such gains or losses are given in Note 24 d. v The copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges.
Tolling charges for copper and molybdenum concentrates are detailed in Note 6. vi The exceptional item affecting operating profit in 2012 relates to provision against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment relating to the Antucoya Project see Note 4.
124 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 5 Segment information continued vii The effects of tax and non-controlling interests on the expenses within the Exploration and evaluation segment are allocated to the mine that the exploration work relates to.
viii T he assets of the Railway and transport services segment includes $91.9 million year ended 31 December 2012 $80.8 million relating to the Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. Inversiones Hornitos, which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones in Chiles Antofagasta Region and $6.7 million year ended 31 December 2012 $4.8 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Antofagasta Terminal International S. A. ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
The assets of Corporate and other items segment includes $24.4 million year ended 31 December 2012 $22.0 million relating to the Groups 30% interest in Parque Elico El Arrayn S. A. an energy company which has been formed to construct and operate a wind farm in Chile and $51.9 million year ended 31 December 2012 nil relating to the Groups 40% interest in Alto Maipo SpA, a hydroelectric project located in the upper section of the Maipo River, approximately 50 km to the south-east of Santiago, with a total installed capacity of 531MW.
b Entity-wide disclosures Revenue by product 2013 2012 $m $m Copper Los Pelambres 2,821.0 3,091.3 Esperanza 1,121.7 1,249.0 El Tesoro 747.4 851.0 Michilla 307.9 307.4 Molybdenum Los Pelambres 180.3 314.7 Gold Los Pelambres 77.0 85.7 Esperanza 305.5 415.5 Silver Los Pelambres 51.1 62.0 Esperanza 27.2 39.7 Total Mining 5,639.1 6,416.3 Railway and transport services 196.6 190.4 Water concession 135.9 133.4 5,971.6 6,740.1 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 125 Revenue by location of customer 2013 2012 $m $m Europe United Kingdom 15.8 35.2 Switzerland 143.9 77.3 Spain 208.2 225.7 Germany 146.4 24.4 Rest of Europe 232.4 385.6 Latin America Chile 375.3 386.7 Rest of Latin America 186.4 237.4 North America United States 320.1 258.9 Asia Japan 1,984.5 2,390.5 China 1,423.9 1,508.9 Rest of Asia 934.7 1,209.5 5,971.6 6,740.1 Information about major customers In the year ended 31 December 2013 the Groups mining revenues included $1,035.8 million related to one large customer that individually accounted for more than 10% of the Groups revenues year ended 31 December 2012 one large customer representing $1,143.8 million.
Non-current assets by location of assets 2013 2012 $m $m Chile 7,962.4 6,924.1 Bolivia 37.0 34.1 USA 94.7 93.8 Other 1.3 0.4 8,095.4 7,051.6 The above non-current assets disclosed by location of assets exclude financial instruments, available-for-sale investments and deferred tax assets.
126 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 6 Revenues An analysis of the Groups total revenue is as follows: 2013 2012 $m $m Sales of goods 5,782.8 6,558.3 Rendering of services 188.8 181.8 Group revenue 5,971.6 6,740.1 Other operating income included within net operating costs 18.7 14.3 Investment income 12.6 24.6 Total revenue 6,002.9 6,779.0 Copper and molybdenum concentrate sale agreements and copper cathode sale agreements generally provide for provisional pricing of sales at the time of shipment, with final pricing being based on the monthly average London Metal Exchange copper price or monthly average molybdenum price for specified future periods.
This normally ranges from one to five months after shipment to the customer.
The provisional pricing mechanism within the sale agreements is an embedded derivative under IFRS.
Gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and to trade debtors in the balance sheet.
The Group determines mark-to-market prices using forward prices at each period end for copper concentrate and cathode sales, and period-end month average prices for molybdenum concentrate sales due to the absence of a futures market in the market price references for that commodity in the majority of the Groups contracts.
In addition to mark-to-market and final pricing adjustments, revenue also includes realised gains and losses relating to derivative commodity instruments.
Details of these realised gains or losses are shown in the tables below.
Further details of derivative commodity instruments in place at the period end are given in Note 24.
Copper and molybdenum concentrate sales are stated net of deductions for tolling charges, as shown in the tables below.
For the year ended 31 December 2013 Los Los Los El Tesoro Michilla Pelambres Esperanza Pelambres Pelambres Esperanza Copper Copper Copper Copper Gold in Gold in Molybdenum concentrate concentrate cathodes cathodes concentrate concentrate concentrate $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 3,042.9 1,237.3 750.0 285.9 82.7 331.3 210.0 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 1.8 0.5 0.2 0.1 1.2 0.4 Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the previous year 31.5 14.4 1.1 0.2 4.1 5.6 0.1 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in the current year 33.3 13.9 1.3 0.3 4.1 4.4 0.5 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the current year 72.8 37.1 5.1 3.4 1.4 15.8 14.9 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 27.1 8.8 1.0 0.1 4.5 1.1 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices 45.7 28.3 4.1 3.5 1.4 20.3 16.0 Total pricing adjustments 79.0 42.2 2.8 3.2 5.5 24.7 15.5 Realised gains on commodity derivatives 0.2 25.2 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 2,963.9 1,195.1 747.4 307.9 77.2 306.6 194.5 Tolling charges 142.9 73.4 0.2 1.1 14.2 Revenue net of tolling charges 2,821.0 1,121.7 747.4 307.9 77.0 305.5 180.3 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 127 For the year ended 31 December 2012 Los Los Los Pelambres Esperanza El Tesoro Michilla Pelambres Esperanza Pelambres Copper Copper Copper Copper Gold in Gold in Molybdenum concentrate concentrate cathodes cathodes concentrate concentrate concentrate $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Provisionally invoiced gross sales 3,144.8 1,298.1 852.8 303.1 89.8 416.5 362.5 Effects of pricing adjustments to previous year invoices Reversal of mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the previous year 18.0 4.3 0.2 0.2 1.6 0.1 Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the previous year 75.8 29.5 4.0 1.3 0.2 1.5 1.3 Total effect of adjustments to previous year invoices in the current year 93.8 25.2 4.2 1.5 0.2 3.1 1.4 Effects of pricing adjustments to current year invoices Settlement of copper sales invoiced in the current year 23.5 11.7 6.0 3.2 4.1 1.6 29.6 Mark-to-market adjustments at the end of the current year 1.8 0.5 0.2 0.1 1.2 0.4 Total effect of adjustments to current year invoices 21.7 12.2 6.2 3.3 4.1 2.8 30.0 Total pricing adjustments 72.1 13.0 2.0 1.8 3.9 0.3 28.6 Realised losses gains on commodity derivatives 5.9 0.2 6.1 Revenue before deducting tolling charges 3,211.0 1,311.1 851.0 307.4 85.9 416.8 333.9 Tolling charges 119.7 62.1 0.2 1.3 19.2 Revenue net of tolling charges 3,091.3 1,249.0 851.0 307.4 85.7 415.5 314.7 i Copper concentrate The typical period for which sales of copper concentrate remain open until settlement occurs is a range of approximately three to five months from shipment date.
At 31 December 2013 sales totalling 172,000 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $3.34 lb compared with an average provisional invoice price of $3.25 lb.
At 31 December 2012 sales totalling 203,400 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $3.60 lb compared with an average provisional invoice price of $3.59 lb.
ii Copper cathodes The typical period for which sales of copper cathodes remain open until settlement occurs is approximately one month from shipment date.
At 31 December 2013, sales totalling 13,500 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $3.34 lb compared with an average provisional invoice price of $3.31 lb.
At 31 December 2012, sales totalling 13,400 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $3.59 lb compared with an average provisional invoice price of $3.60 lb.
iii Gold concentrates The typical period for which sales of gold in concentrate remain open is approximately one month from shipment date.
At 31 December 2013, sales totalling 52,800 ounces remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $1,189 oz compared with an average provisional invoice price of $1,274 oz.
At 31 December 2012, sales totalling 42,400 ounces remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $1,676.9 oz compared with an average provisional invoice price of $1,704.8 oz.
128 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 6 Revenues continued iv Molybdenum concentrate The typical period for which sales of molybdenum remain open is approximately two months from shipment date.
At 31 December 2013, sales totalling 1,800 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $9.7 lb compared with an average provisional invoice price of $10.0 lb.
At 31 December 2012, sales totalling 1,700 tonnes remained open as to price, with an average mark-to-market price of $11.4 lb compared with an average provisional invoice price of $11.5 lb.
As detailed above, the effects of gains and losses from the marking-to-market of open sales are recognised through adjustments to revenue in the income statement and to trade debtors in the balance sheet.
The effect of mark-to-market adjustments on the balance sheet at the end of each period are as follows: Effect on debtors of year end mark-to-market adjustments 2013 2012 $m $m Los Pelambres copper concentrate 27.1 1.8 Los Pelambres molybdenum concentrate 1.1 0.4 Esperanza copper concentrate 8.8 0.5 Esperanza gold in concentrate 4.5 1.2 El Tesoro copper cathodes 1.0 0.2 Michilla copper cathodes 0.1 0.1 31.2 0.6 7 profit for the year Operating profit from subsidiaries and total profit from operations and associates and joint ventures is derived from Group revenue by deducting operating costs as follows: 2013 2012 $m $m Group revenue 5,971.6 6,740.1 Cost of sales 2,859.5 2,464.5 Gross profit 3,112.1 4,275.6 Administrative and distribution expenses 563.0 596.0 Closure provision 71.0 0.3 Severance charges 16.0 14.2 Provision against carrying value of assets exceptional item 500.0 Exploration and evaluation cost 274.9 283.4 Other operating income 18.7 14.3 Other operating expenses 33.8 23.1 Operating profit from subsidiaries 2,172.1 2,873.5 Share of results from associates and joint ventures 14.4 20.8 Total profit from operations, associates and joint ventures 2,157.7 2,852.7 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 129 profit for the year is stated after charging crediting: 2013 2012 $m $m Foreign exchange gains losses included in net finance costs 2.9 4.8 included in income tax expense 0.4 0.3 Amortisation of intangible asset included in cost of sales 11.7 14.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets 496.7 470.6 assets held under finance leases 9.3 9.0 Property and equipment written-off 23.0 6.0 Impairments of property, plant and equipment exceptional item 500.0 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 2,035.1 1,753.1 Employee benefit expense 418.7 390.9 Auditors remuneration audit and audit-related services 1.2 1.3 non-audit services 0.3 0.8 A more detailed analysis of auditors remuneration on a worldwide basis is provided below: 2013 2012 $000 $000 Audit fees Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 235 229 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 285 279 the audit of the Companys subsidiaries as part of the audit of the consolidated financial statements 309 302 Total audit fees 829 810 Audit-related services 420 522 Total fees for audit and audit-related services 1,249 1,332 Other non-audit fees Tax compliance services 22 13 Other taxation advisory services 50 18 Other services 193 807 Total other non-audit service fees 265 838 Total auditors remuneration 1,514 2,170 Audit-related services of $0.4 million in 2013 $0.5 million in 2012 relate mainly to reviewing of the half-yearly financial report pursuant to legislation, training support inrespect to IFRS IFRIC 4 and IFRS 39 and other audit-related assurance services.
Other services of $0.2 million in 2013 relates mainly to an evaluation of the risk management process $0.8 million in 2012, mainly fees paid by Los Pelambres forenvironmental advisory services relating to monitoring of compliance with environmental commitments.
Details of Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reason why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity was safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 85.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
130 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 8 Employees a Average number of employees 2013 2012 Number Number Los Pelambres 945 878 Esperanza 1,283 1,032 El Tesoro 626 571 Michilla 792 709 Antucoya 199 77 Exploration and evaluation 56 54 Corporate and other employees Chile 262 246 United Kingdom 9 12 Other 49 48 Mining 4,221 3,627 Railway and other transport services 1,565 1,662 Water concession 312 286 6,098 5,575 i The average number of employees for the year includes all the employees of subsidiaries.
The average number of employees does not include contractors who are not directly employed by the Group.
ii The average number of employees does not include employees from associates and joint ventures.
iii The average number of employees includes the Executive Director but does not include Non-Executive Directors.
b Aggregated remuneration The aggregated remuneration of the employees included in the table above was as follows: 2013 2012 $m $m Wages and salaries 421.6 389.6 Social security costs 17.6 15.1 Post-employment benets severance charge in the year 16.8 12.1 Long-term incentive plan charge in the year 1.7 4.5 457.7 421.3 During 2013, the amount relating to Minera Antucoya of $20.5 million $13.8 million in 2012 on wages, salaries and social security cost and $0.8 million $0.4 million in 2012 of severance charge has been capitalised.
c Key management personnel In accordance with IAS 24, key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities ofthe Group, directly or indirectly, including any Directors Executive and Non-Executive of the Company.
Key management personnel who are not Directors have been treated as responsible senior management at the Corporate Centre and for the running of the key business divisions of the Group.
Compensation for key management personnel including Directors was as follows: 2013 2012 $m $m Salaries and short-term employee benets 19.0 23.0 Post-employment benets severance charge in the year 0.6 0.5 Long-term incentive plan charge in the year 1.3 2.3 20.9 25.8 Disclosures on Directors remuneration required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 including those specified for audit by that Schedule are included in the Remuneration report on pages 90 to 100.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 131 9 Net finance expense 2013 2012 $m $m Investment revenue Interest receivable 9.0 19.6 Fair value through profit or loss 3.6 5.0 12.6 24.6 Interest expense Interest payable 61.8 85.7 Preference dividends 0.2 0.2 62.0 85.9 Other finance items Time value effect of derivatives 13.5 12.4 Unwinding of discount on provisions 14.2 12.4 Foreign exchange 2.9 4.8 24.8 29.6 Net finance expense 74.2 90.9 At 31 December 2013 an expense of $6.4 million relating to net interest expense and other finance items at Antucoya was capitalised at 31 December 2012 $1.3 million had been capitalised andsubsequently impaired.
10 Taxation The tax charge for the year comprised the following: 2013 2012 $m $m Current tax charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 382.6 546.7 Mining tax Royalty 90.5 177.5 Withholding tax 208.0 147.7 Exchange losses gains on corporate tax balances 0.4 0.3 681.5 871.6 Deferred tax credit charge Corporate tax principally first category tax in Chile 72.4 156.5 Mining tax Royalty 8.7 0.1 Withholding tax 81.1 6.0 162.2 150.6 Total tax charge Income tax expense 843.7 1,022.2 The rate of corporate first category tax in Chile is 20% 2012 20%.
The Groups mining operations are also subject to a mining tax royalty.
From 1 January 2013 production from Los Pelambres, the Tesoro Central and Mirador pits at El Tesoro and Michilla have been subject to the mining tax at a rate of 4% applied to taxable operating profit, and Esperanza has been subject to a rate of 5%.
Production from the Tesoro North-East pit and the Run-of-Mine processing at El Tesoro has been subject to a rate of 514% of taxable operating profit based on a sliding scale with minimum rate of 5% applying to operations with an operating profit margin of below 35% and maximum rate of 14% applied to operations with an operating profit margin above 85%.
During 2012 production from Los Pelambres, Esperanza, the Tesoro Central and Mirador pits at El Tesoro and Michilla were subject to a rate of between 49% of taxable operating profit, and production from the Tesoro North-East pit and the Run-of-Mine processing at El Tesoro was subject to a rate of between 514%, depending on the level of operating profit margin.
In addition to first category tax and the mining tax, the Group incurs withholding taxes on any remittance of profits from Chile and deferred tax is provided on undistributed earnings to the extent that remittance is probable in the foreseeable future.
Withholding tax is levied on remittances of profits from Chile at 35% less first category ie corporate tax already paid in respect of the profits to which the remittances relate.
Prior to 2011 the rate of first category tax had been 17% for a number of years.
Accordingly, withholding tax will be levied at a rate of 18% in respect of remittances of profits earned in previous years when the 17% rate applied.
Withholding tax will be levied at a rate of 15% in respect of remittances of profits earned from 2011 onwards when the current rate of corporation first category tax of 20% is applied.
132 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 10 Taxation continued 2013 2012 $m % $m % profit before tax 2,083.5 2,761.8 Tax at the Chilean corporate tax rate of 20% 416.7 20.0 552.4 20.0 Tax effect of share of results of associates and joint ventures 2.9 0.1 4.2 0.2 Provision against carrying value of assets not recognised for deferred tax 100.0 3.6 Items not subject to or deductible from first category tax 35.4 1.7 21.2 0.8 Effect of increase in first category tax rate on deferred tax balances 67.8 2.5 Royalty 99.2 4.8 177.6 6.4 Withholding taxes provided in year 289.1 13.9 141.7 5.1 Exchange differences 0.4 0.3 Tax expense and effective tax rate for the year 843.7 40.5 1,022.2 37.0 In 2013 the total charge was $843.7 million, with an overall effective tax rate of 40.5% compared with the statutory rate of corporate tax of 20%.
The effective rate of corporate tax was 21.8%, principally due to the impact of exploration expenditure in particular in countries outside of Chile which did not give rise to tax credits.
In addition, the overall effective tax rate reects the Chilean mining tax charge of $99.2 million and the withholding tax charge of $289.1 million.
In 2012 the total charge was $1,022.2 million, with an overall effective tax rate of 37.0% compared with the statutory rate of corporate tax of 20%.
The effective rate of corporate tax was 25.5%, principally due to the impact of the $500 million exceptional impairment provision, which did not give rise to a tax credit, and a deferred tax charge of $67.8 million as a result of the permanent increase in the first category tax rate in Chile from 17% to 20%.
In addition, the overall effective tax rate reected the Chilean mining tax charge of $177.6 million and the withholding tax charge of $141.7 million.
11 Earnings per share 2013 2012 $m $m profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company Net earnings 659.6 1,037.2 profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company Net earnings excluding exceptional items 659.6 1,387.2 2013 2012 Number Number Ordinary shares in issue throughout each year 985,856,695 985,856,695 2013 2012 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 66.9 105.2 Basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items 66.9 140.7 Basic earnings per share is calculated as profit after tax and non-controlling interests, based on 985,856,695 ordinary shares.
There was no potential dilution of earnings per share in either year set out above, and therefore diluted earnings per share did not differ from basic earnings pershareas disclosed above.
Basic earnings per share excluding exceptional items is calculated on profit after tax and non-controlling interest giving net earnings, excluding exceptional items andrelated tax and non-controlling interest, of $659.6 million 2012 $1,387.2 million.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 133 12 Dividends Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: 2013 2012 2013 2012 US cents US cents $m $m per share per share Final dividend paid in June proposed in relation to the previous year ordinary 123.2 118.3 12.5 12.0 special 764.1 236.6 77.5 24.0 887.3 354.9 90.0 36.0 Interim dividend paid in October ordinary 87.7 83.8 8.9 8.5 87.7 83.8 8.9 8.5 975.0 438.7 98.9 44.5 The proposed final dividend for each year, which is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has therefore not been included as a liability in these financial statements, is as follows: 2013 2012 2013 2012 US cents US cents $m $m per share per share Final dividend proposed in relation to the year ordinary 848.8 123.2 86.1 12.5 special 764.1 77.5 848.8 887.3 86.1 90.0 This gives total dividends proposed in relation to 2013 including the interim dividend of 95.0 cents per share or $936.5 million 2012 98.5 cents per share or $971.1 million.
In accordance with IAS 32, preference dividends have been included within interest expense see Note 9 and amounted to $0.2 million 2012 $0.2 million.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend of 86.1 cents will be paid on 23 May 2014 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close ofbusiness on 25 April 2014.
Shareholders can elect on or before 28 April 2014 to receive this interim dividend in US dollars, pounds sterling or euro, andtheexchange rate to be applied to interim dividends to be paid in pounds sterling or euro will be set as soon as reasonably practicable after that date whichiscurrently anticipated to be on 1 May 2014.
Further details of the currency election timing and process including the default currency of payment are available on the Antofagasta plc website www.
co. uk or from the Companys registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC on 44 870 702 0159.
Further details relating to dividends for each year are given in the Directors report.
134 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 13 Intangible assets Total intangible Concession right $m Cost At 1 January 2012 241.8 Additions 3.9 Foreign currency exchange difference 20.7 At 31 December 2012 and 1 January 2013 266.4 Foreign currency exchange difference 22.7 At 31 December 2013 243.7 Amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2012 86.5 Charge for the year 14.6 Foreign currency exchange difference 7.7 At 31 December 2012 and 1 January 2013 108.8 Charge for the year 11.7 Foreign currency exchange difference 9.8 At 31 December 2013 110.7 Net book value At 31 December 2013 133.0 At 31 December 2012 157.6 The concession right relates to the 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile which the Groups wholly-owned subsidiary, Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. acquired in December 2003 and any other subsequent additions or acquisitions subject to the terms of the concession.
This intangible asset is being amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the concession, or the useful life of any component part if less.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 135 14 Property, plant and equipment Land and Wagons Machinery, mining Buildings and Railway and rolling equipment Assets under properties infrastructure track stock and others construction Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cost At 1 January 2012 1,048.5 3,241.4 67.5 141.9 3,964.1 244.3 8,707.7 Additions 101.4 2.6 3.9 6.7 38.8 850.1 1,003.5 Decommissioning provisions capitalised 59.6 59.6 Reclassications 4.1 154.9 2.7 129.1 284.6 2.0 Asset disposals 0.6 0.3 4.7 16.2 0.2 22.0 Foreign currency exchange difference 3.7 4.1 0.2 8.0 At 31 December 2012 and 1 January 2013 1,145.2 3,402.3 71.4 146.6 4,179.5 809.8 9,754.8 Additions 223.0 8.3 0.1 2.8 5.4 1,219.1 1,458.7 Decommissioning provisions capitalised 31.8 31.8 Reclassications 23.7 125.4 3.0 9.5 317.0 443.3 12.1 Asset disposals 4.3 2.2 8.5 32.7 5.1 52.8 Foreign currency exchange difference 3.6 2.5 0.4 6.5 At 31 December 2013 1,344.5 3,528.1 72.3 150.4 4,498.5 1,580.1 11,173.9 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2012 445.8 739.7 14.8 74.4 986.0 4.0 2,264.7 Charge for the year 50.1 146.7 2.4 11.2 269.2 479.6 Depreciation capitalised 8.1 8.1 Provision against carrying value of assets see Note 5 56.4 443.6 500.0 Reclassications 2.4 0.1 2.3 Asset disposals 0.1 3.5 12.4 16.0 Foreign currency exchange difference 4.7 0.5 5.2 At 31 December 2012 and 1 January 2013 552.3 893.4 17.2 82.0 1,249.1 447.6 3,241.6 Charge for the year 52.2 152.8 2.5 10.9 287.6 506.0 Depreciation capitalised in inventories 5.5 5.5 Depreciation capitalised in property, plant and equipment 34.4 34.4 Reclassications 0.2 7.1 7.3 Asset disposals 4.7 1.3 4.5 19.3 29.8 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.7 0.6 1.3 604.5 1,040.8 18.4 88.2 1,549.6 447.6 3,749.1 At 31 December 2013 Net book value At 31 December 2013 740.0 2,487.3 53.9 62.2 2,948.9 1,132.5 7,424.8 At 31 December 2012 592.9 2,508.9 54.2 64.6 2,930.4 362.2 6,513.2 Assets under finance leases included in the totals above Net book value At 31 December 2013 27.3 22.0 49.3 At 31 December 2012 28.0 30.1 58.1 The Group has pledged assets with a carrying value of $3,365.2 million 2012 $2,123 million as security against bank loans provided to the Group.
At 31 December 2013 the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment amounting to $842.8 million 2012 $748.0 million of which $421.0 million were related to the development of Antucoya project.
Compensation from insurance companies related to property, plant and equipment included in the consolidated income statement was $0.5 million in 2013 2012$1.3 million.
At 31 December 2013 $39.9 million 2012 $8.1 million of depreciation in respect of assets relating to Los Pelambres, Esperanza, El Tesoro and Michilla has been capitalised within property, plant and equipment or inventory, and accordingly is excluded from the depreciation charge recorded in the income statement as shown in Note 5 a.
The $500.0 million provision in 2012 against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment relates to the Antucoya project.
Further details in respect of this are set out in Note 4.
136 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 15 Investment property 2013 2012 $m $m Cost Balance at the beginning of the year 3.5 3.1 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.2 0.4 Balance at the end of the year 3.3 3.5 Investment property represents the Groups forestry properties, which are held for long-term potential and accordingly classied as investment property and held atcost as permitted by IAS 40.
The fair value of the Groups investment property at 31 December 2012 was $11.0 million 2011 $11.0 million, based on an independent valuation carried out during 2008 by Gabriel Durn, who is not connected with the Group.
Mr Durn is a Forestry Engineer, Valuer and Assessor of forestry properties for Banco Itau in Chile, with extensive experience of valuation in the region where the assets are located.
The valuation was based on market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
Direct operating expenses principally ongoing maintenance costs arising on these properties amounted to $0.2 million 2011 $0.2 million.
16 Investments in subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries of the Group, the percentage of equity owned and the main country of operation are set out below.
These interests are consolidated within these financial statements.
The Group has restricted the information to its principal subsidiaries as full compliance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 would result in a statement of excessive length.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the next annual return of Antofagasta plc tobe led with the Registrar of Companies.
Country of incorporation Country of operations Nature of business Economic interest Direct subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Railway Company plc UK Chile Railway 100% Chilean Northern Mines Limited UK Chile Investment 100% Antofagasta Investment Company Limited Jersey Jersey Investment 100% Indirect subsidiaries of the Parent Company Antofagasta Minerals Chile Chile Mining 100% Minera Los Pelambres Chile Chile Mining 60% Minera El Tesoro Chile Chile Mining 70% Minera Michilla S. A. Chile Chile Mining 74.2% Minera Esperanza Chile Chile Mining 70% Minera Antucoya Limitada Chile Chile Mining 70% Twin Metals Minnesota LLC USA USA Mining 40% Antofagasta Minerals Canada Canada Canada Mining 100% Anaconda Peru Peru Peru Mining 100% Antofagasta Minerals Australia Pty Australia Australia Mining 100% Antofagasta Services Limited UK UK Group services 100% Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. Chile Chile Water distribution 100% Atacama Aguas y Tecnologa Limitada Chile Chile Water distribution 100% Ferrocarril Antofagasta a Bolivia Agency Chile Chile Railway 100% Servicios fide Transportes Integrados Limitada Chile Chile Road transport 100% Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. Bolivia Bolivia Railway 50% Forestal S. A. Chile Chile Forestry 100% The Group exercises control over the Boards of Empresa Ferroviaria Andina S. A. and Twin Metals Minnesota LLC.
Accordingly, these investments are treated as subsidiaries and are consolidated in these Group financial statements.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 137 17 Investment in associates and joint ventures Inversiones Alto Energa Tethyan Hornitos ATI El Arrayn Maipo Andina Copper Total Total 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 80.8 4.8 22.0 1.4 2.5 106.5 86.8 Capital contribution 52.6 21.6 7.0 81.2 44.0 Gains losses in fair value of cash ow hedges deferred in reserves of associates 2.3 0.4 1.9 1.8 Interest expense capitalised by associate payable to subsidiary 0.6 Share of net profit loss before tax 13.6 2.4 0.1 0.4 21.9 5.3 11.5 18.6 Share of tax 2.5 0.5 0.1 2.9 2.2 Share of income loss from associates 11.1 1.9 0.1 0.3 21.9 5.3 14.4 20.8 Dividends received 1.1 Balance at the end of the year 91.9 6.7 24.4 51.9 1.1 0.8 175.2 106.5 The investments which are included in the $175.2 million balance at 31 December 2013 are set out below: Investment in associates i The Groups 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos S. A. which owns the 165MW Hornitos thermoelectric power plant in Mejillones, in Chiles Antofagasta Region.
The Group has power purchase agreements with Inversiones Hornitos for the provision of up to 150MW of electricity for Esperanza and Tesoro.
Share of income from associates for the year ended 31 December 2013 included $5.2 million 2012 $3.4 million for the Groups share of an additional insurance compensation as a result of business interruption that occurred between 20 September 2012 and 28 December 2012. ii The Groups 30% interest in ATI, which operates a concession to manage installations in the port of Antofagasta.
iii The Groups 30% interest in Parque Eolico el Arrayan SPA El Arrayn, which will develop and operate an 115MW wind power plant.
Construction of the plant commenced in July 2012 with the expectation to achieve commercial operation during the third quarter of 2014.
The Group has 20-year power purchase agreements with El Arrayn for the provision of up to 40MW of electricity for Los Pelambres.
iv The Groups interest in Alto Maipo SPA Alto Maipo, which will develop, construct, own and operate two run-of-river hydroelectric power stations located in the upper section of the Maipo River, approximately 50 km to the south-east of Santiago, with a total installed capacity of 531MW.
The Group has two 20-year power purchase agreements PPAs with Alto Maipo for the provision of up to 160MW of electricity for Los Pelambres.
In July 2013, the Group exercised an option to acquire a 40% interest in Alto Maipo for a consideration of $50.2 million, and will be responsible for its share of development costs.
During the year, the Group contributed an additional $2.4 million for a total contribution of $52.6 million in 2013.
The balance due from Alto Maipo to the Group at 31 December 2013 was $47.0 million representing loan nancing with an interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus 4.25%.
Investment in joint ventures v The Groups 60% interest in Energa Andina, which is a joint venture with Origin Energy Geothermal Chile Limitada Origin for the exploration and exploitation of potential sources of geothermal energy.
The Group has classied its 60% interest as a joint venture as the terms and conditions of the partnership agreement mean that control over Energa Andina is exercised jointly by the Group and Origin.
vi The Groups 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Limited Tethyan, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation over Tethyans mineral interests in Pakistan, which is now subject to international arbitration as set out in Note 36.
138 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 17 Investment in associates and joint ventures continued Summarised financial information for the associates and joint ventures is as follows: Inversiones Alto Energa Tethyan Hornitos ATI El Arrayn Maipo Andina Copper Total Total 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalent 35.1 0.7 1.2 49.1 4.9 2.6 93.6 42.9 Current assets 82.0 14.2 18.4 21.7 0.3 2.3 138.9 119.2 Non-current assets 324.1 93.3 255.9 193.9 867.2 497.7 Current liabilities 49.6 16.3 6.5 73.4 1.9 6.3 154.0 96.8 Non-current liabilities 163.4 69.6 199.3 64.1 1.4 0.3 498.1 286.9 Revenue 174.3 45.0 219.3 178.7 profit loss after tax 28.2 6.3 1.0 0.7 37.1 5.1 9.4 28.6 Other comprehensive income 6.6 1.4 5.2 1.6 Total comprehensive income 28.2 6.3 5.6 2.1 37.1 5.1 4.2 27.0 Notes to the summarised financial information i The summarised financial information is based on the amounts included in the IFRS financial statements of the associate or joint venture ie 100% of the results or balances of the associate or joint venture, rather than the Groups proportionate share, after the Groups fair value adjustments.
18 Available-for-sale investments 2013 2012 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 44.5 36.5 Additions 2.1 1.5 Movements in fair value 28.2 5.4 Foreign currency exchange difference 1.8 1.1 Balance at the end of the year 16.6 44.5 Available-for-sale investments represent those investments which are not subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and are not held for trading purposes.
The fair value of all equity investments are based on quoted market prices.
19 Inventories 2013 2012 $m $m Current: Raw materials and consumables 201.3 192.7 Work-in-progress 214.7 243.4 Finished goods 60.5 58.8 476.5 494.9 Non-current: Work-in-progress 178.3 162.5 178.3 162.5 Total 654.8 657.4 Non-current work-in-progress represents inventory expected to be processed more than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Inventories with a carrying amount of $144.9 million 2012 $126.3 million have been pledged as security for the Esperanza project nancing.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 139 20 Trade and other receivables Due in one year Due after one year Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 $m $m $m $m $m $m Trade debtors 752.8 599.4 0.5 0.6 753.3 600.0 Other debtors 151.8 202.1 180.3 107.7 332.1 309.8 904.6 801.5 180.8 108.3 1,085.4 909.8 The largest balances of trade receivables are held with equity participants in the key mining projects.
Many other significant trade receivables are secured by letters of credit or other forms of security.
The average credit period given on sale of goods and rendering of service is 45 days 2012 32 days.
There is no material element which is interest-bearing.
Trade debtors include mark-to-market adjustments in respect of provisionally priced sales of copper and molybdenum concentrates which remain open as to final pricing.
Where these have resulted in credit balances, they have been reclassied to trade creditors.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts were as follows: 2013 2012 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 6.1 3.9 Charge for the year 1.4 2.3 Amounts written off 0.1 Unused amounts reversed 1.5 0.3 Foreign currency exchange difference 0.3 0.2 Balance at the end of the year 5.6 6.1 The ageing analysis of the trade receivables balance is as follows: Past due but not impaired 36 months More than Neither past due nor Up to 3 months impaired past due past due 6 months past due Total $m $m $m $m $m 2013 1,071.9 7.4 2.3 3.8 1,085.4 2012 900.0 6.6 1.4 1.8 909.8 With respect to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations.
The carrying value of the trade receivables recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
At 31 December 2013, the other debtors include $13.6 million 2012 $11.8 million relating to prepayments.
21 Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments The fair value of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments are not materially different from the carrying values presented.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was comprised of: 2013 2012 $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 613.7 1,811.3 Liquid investments 2,071.4 2,480.6 2,685.1 4,291.9 At 31 December 2013 and 2012 there is no cash which is subject to restriction.
140 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 21 Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments continued The currency exposure of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments was as follows: 2013 2012 $m $m US dollars 2,505.2 4,086.7 Chilean pesos 175.0 201.6 Australian dollars 1.3 1.6 Sterling 1.0 0.9 Other 2.6 1.1 2,685.1 4,291.9 Details of cross-currency swaps in place at the end of the year are given in Note 24 d ii.
22 Borrowings a Analysis by type of borrowing Borrowings may be analysed by business segment and type as follows: 2013 2012 Notes $m $m Los Pelambres Corporate loans i 222.7 357.8 Finance leases ii 17.9 29.1 Esperanza Project nancing senior debt iii 593.2 893.8 Shareholder loan subordinated debt iv 190.7 238.1 Finance leases v 0.7 5.2 El Tesoro Corporate loan vi 131.5 214.6 Finance leases vii 0.2 0.9 Antucoya Shareholder loan subordinated debt viii 171.6 102.0 Finance leases ix 1.8 Corporate and other items Finance leases x 35.6 39.3 Railway and other transport services Bonds xi 3.0 4.7 Short-term loans xii 1.7 0.5 Other Preference shares xiii 3.3 3.2 Total 1,373.9 1,889.2 i Corporate loans at Los Pelambres are unsecured and US dollar denominated.
These loans have a remaining term between one and three years and have an interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus margins between 0.91.6%.
ii Finance leasing at Los Pelambres are US dollar denominated, comprising $15.6 million at xed rate of 5.48% and $2.3 million at LIBOR three-month plus3.0%, with remaining duration of one to four years.
iii Senior debt at Esperanza comprises $593.2 million in respect of syndicated loans.
These loans are for a remaining term of five years and have aninterestrate of LIBOR six-month plus margins between 1.3753.000%.
T he Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the oating rate interest for xed rate interest.
At 31 December 2013 the current notional amount hedged of the senior debt at Esperanza was $191.3 million.
iv This balance includes long-term subordinated debt provided to Esperanza by Marubeni Corporation with duration of eight years and weighted average interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus 3.75%.
Long-term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Esperanza has been eliminated on consolidation.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 141 v F inance leases at Esperanza are US dollar denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of three months and with an average interest rate ofapproximately LIBOR three-month plus 2.8%.
vi T he corporate loan at El Tesoro is unsecured and US dollar denominated.
This loan has approximately two years remaining, with an interest rate over thelife of the loan of LIBOR six-month plus 2.8%.
vii F inance leases at El Tesoro are US dollar denominated, with a maximum remaining duration of two years and with an average interest xed rate atapproximately 1.5%.
viii This balance includes long-term subordinated debt provided to Antucoya by Marubeni with a remaining duration of 11 years and an interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus 3.65%.
Long-term subordinated debt provided by Group companies to Antucoya has been eliminated on consolidation.
The project finance was closed in December 2013 and its disbursements will start during 2014. ix F inance leases at Antucoya are US dollar denominated, with a maximum duration of one year and with an average interest rate of approximately LIBOR three-month plus 2.8%.
x Finance leases at Corporate and other items are denominated in Unidades fide Fomento ie ination-linked Chilean pesos and have a remaining duration of 14 years and a xed rate of 5.29%.
xi Railway and other transport services includes a balance of $3.0 million related to bonds issued in the Bolivian stock market to renance short-term loans with a xed interest rate of 5.5% and duration of one year.
xii Short-term loans at Railway and other transport services mainly comprise $1.5 million from local banks with an average duration of six months and with axed interest rate of 5.0%.
xiii The preference shares are sterling-denominated and issued by the Company.
There were 2,000,000 shares of 1 each authorised, issued and fully paid at 31 December 2013.
The preference shares are non-redeemable and are entitled to a xed cumulative dividend of 5% per annum.
On winding-up they are entitled to repayment and any arrears of dividend in priority to ordinary shareholders, but are not entitled to participate further in any surplus.
Each preference share carries 100 votes in any general meeting of the Company.
b Analysis of borrowings by currency The exposure of the Groups borrowings to currency risk is as follows: 2013 Pesos Sterling Other US dollars Total At 31 December 2013 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 947.4 947.4 Other loans including short-term loans 1.3 365.7 367.0 Finance leases 33.9 22.3 56.2 Preference shares 3.3 3.3 33.9 3.3 1.3 1,335.4 1,373.9 2012 Pesos Sterling US dollars Total At 31 December 2012 $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,466.1 1,466.1 Other loans including short-term loans 345.5 345.5 Finance leases 37.8 36.6 74.4 Preference shares 3.2 3.2 37.8 3.2 1,848.2 1,889.2 142 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 22 Borrowings continued c Analysis of borrowings by type of interest rate The exposure of the Groups borrowings to interest rate risk is as follows: 2013 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2013 $m $m $m Corporate loans 947.4 947.4 Other loans including short-term loans 4.6 362.4 367.0 Finance leases 52.2 4.0 56.2 Preference shares 3.3 3.3 60.1 1,313.8 1,373.9 2012 Fixed Floating Total At 31 December 2012 $m $m $m Corporate loans 1,466.2 1,466.2 Other loans including short-term loans 5.2 340.2 345.4 Finance leases 60.2 14.2 74.4 Preference shares 3.2 3.2 68.6 1,820.6 1,889.2 The above oating rate corporate loans include the project nancing at Esperanza, where the Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the oating rate interest for xed rate interest.
At 31 December 2013 the current notional amount hedged of the senior debt was $191.3 million 2012 $395.2 million.
d Maturity prole The maturity prole of the Groups borrowings is as follows: Within Between Between After 2013 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2013 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 326.2 188.5 377.3 55.4 947.4 Other loans 3.2 1.4 362.4 367.0 Finance leases 11.6 6.2 14.0 24.4 56.2 Preference shares 3.3 3.3 341.0 196.1 391.3 445.5 1,373.9 Within Between Between After 2012 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total At 31 December 2012 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 330.1 330.4 472.9 332.7 1,466.1 Other loans 104.2 1.5 1.5 238.2 345.4 Finance leases 12.7 10.3 21.3 30.2 74.5 Preference shares 3.2 3.2 447.0 342.2 495.7 604.3 1,889.2 The amounts included above for finance leases are based on the present value of minimum lease payments.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 143 The total minimum lease payments for these finance leases may be analysed as follows: 2013 2012 $m $m Within 1 year 14.2 15.7 Between 12 years 8.3 13.2 Between 25 years 18.8 27.9 After 5 years 30.8 38.6 Total minimum lease payment 72.1 95.4 Less amounts representing finance charges 15.9 20.9 Present value of minimum lease payment 56.2 74.5 All leases are on a xed payment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
e Borrowings facilities The undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at the end of each year, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at those dates, wereas follows: 2013 2012 $m $m Expiring in one year or less 1,320.9 1,254.6 Expiring in more than one but not more than two years 313.3 Expiring in more than two years 17.8 135.4 1,652.0 1,390.0 The available facilities comprise general working capital facilities at the Groups operating subsidiaries all of which were undrawn at the end of each year.
Of these facilities, $1,290.2 million 2012 $1,122.7 million are denominated in US dollars, $280.9 million 2012 $33.3 million in Unidades fide Fomento ie ination-linked Chilean pesos, $9.7 million 2012 $22.3 million in Euros and $71.2 million 2012 $211.7 million in Chilean pesos.
23 Trade and other payables Due in one year Due after one year Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 $m $m $m $m $m $m Trade creditors 390.6 361.1 390.6 361.1 Other creditors and accruals 386.0 343.4 4.7 7.4 390.7 350.8 776.6 704.5 4.7 7.4 781.3 711.9 Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 47 days 2012 32 days.
144 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements Total Total 24 Financial instruments and financial risk Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2013 2012 management $m $m $m $m $m Financial assets a Categories of financial instruments Derivatives in designated The Groups financial instruments, grouped according to the categories dened hedge accounting in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, are as follows: relationships 12.9 12.9 43.3 Available-for-sale 2013 2012 investments 16.6 16.6 45.9 $m $m Debtors mark-to-market 36.9 36.9 1.8 Financial assets Fair value through profit Derivatives in designated hedge accounting andloss 2,071.4 2,071.4 2,480.6 relationships 12.9 43.3 Financial liabilities Available-for-sale investments 16.6 44.5 Derivatives in designated Loans and receivables at amortised cost including hedge accounting cash and cash equivalents 1,699.1 2,721.1 relationships 9.8 9.8 19.3 Fair value through profit and loss liquid Creditors mark-to-market 5.7 5.7 2.4 investments 2,071.4 2,480.6 2,088.0 34.3 2,122.3 2,549.9 Financial liabilities Derivatives in designated hedge accounting There were no transfers between level 1 and 2 during the year.
relationships 9.8 19.3 c Financial risk management Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 2,155.2 2,601.1 1,635.0 2,669.1 The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including commodity price risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and other price b Fair value of financial instruments risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, in general to reduce exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined interest rate movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments as follows: for speculative trading purposes.
the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms The Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the Groups risk and conditions and traded on active liquid markets are determined with management framework.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with reference to quoted market prices: its review of the effectiveness of the risk management process, and monitoring the fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities excluding of key risks and mitigations.
Internal Audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc derivative instruments are determined in accordance with generally accepted reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are pricing models based on discounted cash ow analysis using prices from reported to the Audit and Risk Committee.
observable current market transactions: and i Commodity price risk the fair values of derivative instruments are calculated using quoted prices.
The Group generally sells its copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper Where such prices are not available, use is made of discounted cash cathodes output at prevailing market prices, subject to final pricing adjustments ow analysis based on the applicable yield curve for the duration of the which may range from one to five months after delivery to the customer, and it instruments for non-optional derivatives, and option pricing models for is therefore exposed to changes in market prices for copper and molybdenum optional derivatives.
both in respect of future sales and previous sales which remain open as to final The fair value of each category of financial asset and liability is not materially pricing.
In 2013, sales of copper and molybdenum concentrate and copper different from the carrying values presented for either 2013 or 2012. cathodes represented 86.7% of Group turnover and therefore revenues and earnings depend signicantly on LME and realised copper prices.
The following table provides an analysis of the financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into levels The Group uses futures, min-max instruments and options to manage its 1to3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: exposure to copper prices.
These instruments may give rise to accounting volatility due to uctuations in their fair value prior to the maturity of the level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices instruments.
Details of those copper and molybdenum concentrate sales and unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: copper cathode sales which remain open as to final pricing are given in Note6.
level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than Details of commodity rate derivatives entered into by the Group are given in quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or Note 24 d. liability, either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices : and level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 145 Commodity price sensitivity The currency exposure of the Groups cash, cash equivalents and liquid The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the copper investments is given in Note 21, and the currency exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 22.
The effects of exchange gains and losses price on the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
A movement in the copper forward price as at the reporting date will affect the final pricing included in the income statement are given in Note 7.
Exchange differences adjustment to sales which remain open at that date, impacting the trade on translation of the net assets of entities with a functional currency other than receivables balance and consequently the income statement.
A movement in the US dollar the most material of which is Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A. are the copper forward price will also affect the valuation of commodity derivatives, taken to the currency translation reserve and are disclosed in the Consolidated impacting the hedging reserve in equity if the fair value movement relates to an Statement of Changes in Equity on page 110. effective designated cash ow hedge, and impacting the income statement if Currency sensitivity it does not.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as currency The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the US rates, remain constant.
dollar Chilean peso exchange rate on the financial instruments held as at the If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had increased by reporting date.
10 cents, net earnings would have increased by $17.3 million 2012 The impact on profit or loss is as a result of the retranslation of monetary increase by $13.3 million and hedging reserves in equity would have financial instruments including cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments, decreased by $5.0 million 2012 decrease by $4.6 million.
trade receivables, trade payables and borrowings.
The impact on equity is as If the copper forward price as at the reporting date had decreased by a result of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments which are effective 10 cents, net earnings would have decreased by $20.0 million 2012 designated cash ow hedges, and changes in the fair value of available-for-sale decrease by $23.2 million and hedging reserves in equity would have equity investments.
The calculation assumes that all other variables, such as increased by $10.9 million 2012 increase by $18.5 million.
In addition, a movement in the average copper price during the year would If the US dollar had strengthened by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the impact revenue and earnings.
A 10 cents change in the average copper price reporting date, net earnings would have increased by $0.5 million 2012 during the year would have affected net earnings by $77.8 million 2012 decrease in $2.8 million : and hedging reserves in equity would have decreased $74.8 million and earnings per share by 7.9 cents 2012 7.6 cents, by $5.2 million 2012 decrease by $3.7 million.
If the US dollar had weakened based on production volumes in 2013, without taking into account the by 10% against the Chilean peso as at the reporting date, net earnings would effects of provisional pricing and hedging activity.
A $1 change in the have decreased by $0.6 million 2012 increase in $3.4 million : and hedging average molybdenum price for the year would have affected net earnings by reserves in equity would have increased by $6.3 million 2012 increase by $9.1 million 2012 $11.8 million, and earnings per share by 0.9 cents 2012 $4.5 million.
1.2 cents, based on production volumes in 2013, and without taking into iii Interest rate risk account the effects of provisional pricing.
A $100 change in the average gold The Groups policy is generally to borrow and invest cash at oating rates.
price for the year would have affected net earnings by $14.9 million 2012 Fluctuations in interest rates may impact the Groups net finance income $15.6 million, and earnings per share by 1.5 cents 2012 1.6 cents, based or cost, and to a lesser extent on the value of financial assets and liabilities.
on production volumes in 2013, and without taking into account the effects The Group occasionally uses interest rate swaps and collars to manage interest ofprovisional pricing.
rate exposures on a portion of its existing borrowings.
Details of any interest rate ii Currency risk derivatives entered into by the Group are given in Note 24 d. The Group is exposed to a variety of currencies.
The US dollar, however, is Interest rate exposure of the Groups borrowings is given in Note 22. the currency in which the majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs are inuenced by the countries in which the Groups operations Interest rate sensitivity are based principally in Chile as well as those currencies in which the costs The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in interest rates of imported equipment and services are determined.
After the US dollar, the in relation to the financial instruments held as at the reporting date.
The impact Chilean peso is the most important currency inuencing costs and to a lesser on profit or loss reects the impact on annual interest expense in respect of the extent sales.
oating rate borrowings held as at the reporting date, and the impact on annual interest income in respect of cash and cash equivalents held as at the reporting Given the signicance of the US dollar to the Groups operations, this is date.
The impact on equity is as a result of changes in the fair value of derivative the presentational currency of the Group for internal and external reporting.
instruments which are effective designated cash ow hedges.
The calculation The USdollar is also the currency for borrowing and holding surplus cash, assumes that all other variables, such as currency rates, remain constant.
although a portion of this may be held in other currencies, notably Chilean pesos and sterling, to meet short-term operational and capital commitments If the interest rate increased by 1%, based on the financial instruments held as and dividend payments.
at the reporting date, net earnings would have increased by $11.9 million 2012 increase in $20.5 million and hedging reserves in equity would have increased When considered appropriate, the Group uses forward exchange contracts and by $2.1 million 2012 increase in $3.5 million.
This does not include the effect currency swaps to limit the effects of movements in exchange rates in foreign on the income statement of changes in the fair value of the Groups liquid currency denominated assets and liabilities.
The Group may also use these investments relating to the underlying investments in xed income instruments.
instruments to reduce currency exposure on future transactions and cash ows.
Details of any exchange rate derivatives entered by the Group in the year are iv Other price risk given in Note 24 d. The Group is exposed to equity price risk on its available-for-sale equity investments.
146 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements vii Liquidity risk 24 Financial instruments and financial risk The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves management continued andnancing facilities, through the review of forecast and actual cash ows.
The Group typically holds surplus cash in demand or term deposits or highly Equity price sensitivity liquid investments, which typically can be accessed or liquidated within The sensitivity analysis below shows the impact of a movement in the equity 24hours.
values of the available-for-sale financial assets held as at the reporting date.
The majority of borrowings comprise corporate loans at Los Pelambres, If the value of the available-for-sale investments had increased by 10% as at repayable over periods of up to three years, corporate loans at Esperanza, thereporting date, equity would have increased by $1.7 million 2012 increase repayable over approximately six years, corporate loans at El Tesoro repayable in $4.6 million.
There would have been no impact on the income statement.
over approximately two years, and Antucoya long-term subordinated debt v Cash ow risk repayable over approximately 12 years.
The Groups future cash ows depend on a number of factors, including At the end of both 2013 and 2012, the Group was in a net cash position, as commodity prices, production and sales levels, operating costs, capital disclosed in Note 32.
Details of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments expenditure levels and financial income and costs.
Its cash ows are therefore are given in Note 21, while details of borrowings including the maturity prole subject to the exchange, interest rate and commodity price risks described are given in Note 22.
Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities are above as well as operational factors and input costs.
To reduce the risk of alsogiven in Note 22. potential short-term disruptions to the supply of key inputs such as electricity The following table analyses the maturity of the Groups contractual commitments and sulphuric acid, the Group enters into mediumand long-term supply in respect of its financial liabilities and derivative financial instruments.
The table contracts to help ensure continuity of supply.
Long-term electricity supply has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash ows on the earliest date contracts are in place at each of the Groups mines, in most cases linking the on which the Group can be required to pay.
The table includes both interest cost of electricity under the contract to the current cost of electricity on the andprincipal cash ows.
The Group seeks to lock in supply of sulphuric acid for future periods of a year or longer, with contract prices agreed in the latter part of the year, to be applied to purchases of acid in the following year.
Further information on production and sales levels and operating costs are given in the Operational review on pages 34 to 49. vi Credit risk Credit risk arises from trade and other receivables, cash, cash equivalents, liquid investments and derivative financial instruments.
The Groups credit risk is primarily to trade receivables.
The credit risk on cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments and on derivative financial instruments is limited as the counterparties are financial institutions with high credit ratings assigned by international credit agencies.
All customers are subject to credit review procedures, including the use of external credit ratings where available.
Credit is provided only within set limits, which are regularly reviewed.
Outstanding receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis.
The carrying value of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the maximum exposure to credit risk.
The amounts presented inthebalance sheet are net of allowances for any doubtful receivables.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 147 Between Less than 6 months Between After 2013 6 months to 1 year 12 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2013 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 178.6 176.4 211.0 468.3 1,034.3 Other loans including short-term loans 3.1 1.5 579.5 584.1 Finance leases 6.9 5.5 9.3 48.7 70.4 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 Trade and other payables 774.3 2.3 3.5 1.2 781.3 Derivative financial instruments 1.1 2.3 3.6 2.8 9.8 961.0 189.7 229.1 1,100.5 2,480.3 Between Less than 6 months Between After 2012 6 months to 1 year 12 years 2 years Total At 31 December 2012 $m $m $m $m $m Corporate loans 187.7 185.6 363.8 888.0 1,625.1 Other loans including short-term loans 105.2 0.2 1.5 239.7 346.6 Finance leases 7.7 8.3 13.2 66.0 95.2 Preference shares 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.4 Trade and other payables 702.3 2.2 3.5 3.9 711.9 Derivative financial instruments 1.6 4.6 5.1 8.0 19.3 1,004.6 201.0 387.3 1,205.6 2,798.5 The preference shares pay an annual dividend of 100,000 $160.334 in perpetuity, and accordingly it is not possible to determine total amounts payable for periods without a xed end date.
viii Capital risk management The Groups objectives are to return capital to shareholders while leaving the Group with sufficient funds to progress its short, medium and long-term growth plansas well as preserving the financial exibility to take advantage of opportunities as they may arise.
The Group monitors capitalon the basis of net cash dened as cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments less borrowings which was $1,311.2 million at 31 December 2013 2012 $2,402.7 million, as well as gross cash dened as cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments which was $2,685.1 million at 31 December 2013 2012 $4,291.9 million.
The Groups total cash is held in a combination of on demand and term deposits and managed funds investing in high-quality, xed incomeinstruments.
Some of the managed funds have been instructed to invest in instruments with average maturities greater than 90 days.
These amounts are presented as liquid investments but are included in net cash for monitoring and decision-making purposes.
The Group has a risk averse investment strategy.
The Groups borrowings are detailed in Note 22.
Additional project finance or shareholder loans are taken out by the operating subsidiaries to fund projects onacase-by-case basis.
d Derivative financial instruments The Group occasionally uses derivative financial instruments, in general to reduce its exposure to commodity price, foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
The Group does not use such derivative instruments for speculative trading purposes.
The Group has applied the hedge accounting provisions of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash ows have been recognised directly in equity, with such amounts subsequently recognised in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses on commodity derivatives recognised in the income statement have been recorded within revenue.
The time value element of changes in the fair value of derivative options is excluded from the designated hedging relationship, and is therefore recognised directly in the income statement within other finance items.
Realised gains and losses and changes in the fair value of exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items for those derivatives where hedge accounting has not been applied.
When hedge accounting has been applied the realised gains and losses on exchange and interest derivatives are recognised within other finance items and interest expense respectively.
148 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 24 Financial instruments and financial risk management continued i Mark-to-market adjustments and income statement impact The gains or losses recorded in the income statement or in reserves during the year, and the fair value recorded on the balance sheet at the end of the year in respect of derivatives are as follows: For the year ended 31 December 2013 Fair value recorded Impact on income statement Impact on reserves on balance sheet Gains losses Gains resulting from resulting from markmark-to-market to-market Realised adjustments on Total net adjustments on Net financial gains losses hedging instruments gain loss hedging instruments liability asset 2013 2013 2013 2013 31.12.2013 $m $m $m $m $m Commodity derivatives El Tesoro 0.2 0.2 0.8 0.4 Michilla 25.2 13.5 11.7 1.3 11.2 Exchange derivatives Michilla 7.2 7.2 5.3 1.7 Interest derivatives Esperanza 7.8 7.8 8.7 9.4 Energy derivatives Los Pelambres 0.8 0.8 10.3 25.6 13.5 12.1 7.4 3.1 For the year ended 31 December 2012 Fair value recorded Impact on income statement Impact on reserves on balance sheet Gains losses Losses resulting from resulting from markmark-to-market to-market Realised adjustments on Total net adjustments on Net financial gains losses hedging instruments loss gain hedging instruments liability asset 2012 2012 2012 2012 31.12.2012 $m $m $m $m $m Commodity derivatives Los Pelambres 5.9 5.9 El Tesoro 0.2 0.2 1.7 1.2 Michilla 6.1 12.4 6.3 20.0 26.0 Exchange derivatives Michilla 0.7 0.7 14.8 7.0 Interest derivatives Esperanza 13.7 13.7 8.9 18.1 Energy derivatives Los Pelambres 10.3 10.3 12.6 12.4 25.0 12.3 24.0 The gains losses recognised in reserves are disclosed before non-controlling interests and tax.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 149 The net financial asset liability resulting from the balance sheet mark-to-market adjustments are analysed as follows: 2013 2012 $m $m Analysed between: Non-current assets 8.0 Current assets 12.9 35.3 Current liabilities 3.4 6.2 Non-current liabilities 6.4 13.1 3.1 24.0 ii Outstanding derivative financial instruments Commodity derivatives The Group periodically uses commodity derivatives to reduce its exposure to uctuation in the copper price.
a Min-max instruments At 31.12.13 For instruments held at 31.12.13 Weighted average remaining Copper period from Covering a Weighted Weighted production 1 January period average average hedged 2014 up to: oor cap tonnes Months US cents US cents Michilla 36,000 6.5 31-12-14 331.7 433.0 b Futures arbitrage The Group also has futures for copper production, to buy and sell copper production with the effect of swapping COMEX prices for LME prices without eliminating underlying market price exposure.
For instruments held at At 31.12.13 31.12.13 Weighted average remaining Copper period from Covering a production 1 January period hedged 2014 up to: tonnes Months El Tesoro 10,600 7.0 31-01-15 Michilla 605 1.0 31-01-14 Exchange derivatives The Group periodically uses foreign exchange derivatives to reduce its exposure to uctuations in the exchange rates inuencing operating costs and the fair value ofnon-US dollar denominated assets or liabilities.
Cross-currency swaps The Group has used cross-currency swaps to swap Chilean pesos for US dollars.
At 31.12.13 For instruments held at 31.12.13 Weighted Principal average value of remaining crossperiod from Covering a Weighted currency 1 January period average swaps held 2014 up to: rate $m Months Ch$ US$ Michilla 96.0 6.6 15-12-14 544.4 150 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 24 Financial instruments and financial risk management continued Interest derivatives The Group periodically uses interest derivatives to reduce its exposure to interest rate movements.
Interest rate swaps The Group has used interest rate swaps to swap the oating rate interest relating to the Esperanza nancing for xed rate interest.
At 31 December 2013 the Group had entered into the contracts outlined below.
Maximum Weighted notional average Maturity amount xed rate Start date date $m % Esperanza 2-15-2011 8-15-2018 191.3 3.372 The actual notional amount hedged depends upon the amount of the related debt currently outstanding.
25 Long-term incentive plan The long-term incentive plan the Plan was introduced at the end of 2011.
Awards granted pursuant to the Plan form part of the remuneration of senior managers in the Group.
Directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan.
Details of the Awards Under the Plan, the Group may grant awards based on the price of ordinary shares in the Company and cannot grant awards over actual shares.
Restricted Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares, subject tothe relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Restricted Award vests.
Performance Awards: These awards are conditional rights to receive cash payment by reference to a specified number of the Companys ordinary shares subject to both the satisfaction of a performance condition and the relevant employee remaining employed by the Group when the Performance Award vests.
When awards vest under the Plan, participants become entitled to receive a cash payment by reference to the number and portion of awards that have vested andthe market value of the Companys ordinary shares on the date of vesting.
There is no exercise price payable by participants in respect of the awards.
Restricted Awards can only vest in full if participants remain employed by the Group for three years from the date that Restricted Awards are granted.
In ordinary circumstances, the first one-third of a Restricted Award will vest after one year, the second one-third will vest after two years and the remaining one-third will vest after three years.
There are no performance criteria attached to Restricted Awards.
The fair value of Restricted Awards granted under the Plan is recorded as a compensation expense over the vesting periods, with a corresponding liability recognised for the fair value of the liability at the end of each period until settled.
Performance Awards only vest if certain performance criteria are met.
The performance criteria reect a number of factors including total shareholder return, earnings levels, growth in the Groups reserves and resources and project delivery targets.
The fair value of Performance Awards under the Plan is recorded asacompensation expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding liability at the end of each period until settled.
A One-off Award was granted to Diego Hernndez, the CEO of Antofagasta Minerals, following his appointment during 2012.
This award was granted for the same purpose as the awards granted under the LTIP but by reference to metrics which are specic to the participants role as Chief Executive officer ofAntofagasta Minerals.
Valuation process and accounting for the awards The fair value of the awards is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The inputs into the Monte Carlo simulation model are as follows: 2013 2012 Weighted average forecast share price at vesting date USD 7.09 USD 21.25 Expected volatility 41.48% 18.45% Expected life of awards 3 years 3 years Expected dividend yields 1.60% 1.64% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the previous five years.
The expected life of awards used in the model has been adjusted based on managements best estimate for the effects of non-transferability and compliance of the objectives determined according to the characteristic of each plan.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 151 The number of awards outstanding at the end of the period is as follows: Restricted Performance One-off Awards Awards Award Outstanding at 1 January 2013 234,274 234,274 83,496 Granted during the period 305,319 305,319 Cancelled during the period 35,071 48,559 Payments during the period 78,093 Outstanding at 31 December 2013 426,430 491,035 83,496 Number of awards that have vested 167,877 The Group has recorded a liability for $4.8 million at 31 December 2013, of which $3.1 million is due after more than one year 31 December 2012 $4.5 million, ofwhich $3.1 million was due after more than one year and total expenses of $1.7 million for the year 2012 expense of $4.5 million.
26 Post-employment benefit obligations a Dened contribution schemes The Group operates dened contribution schemes for a limited number of employees.
The amount charged to the income statement in 2013 was $0.2 million 2012 $0.1 million, representing the amount paid in the year.
There were no outstanding amounts which remain payable at the end of either year.
b Severance provisions Employment terms at some of the Groups operations provide for payment of a severance indemnity when an employment contract comes to an end.
This is typically at the rate of one month for each year of service subject in most cases to a cap as to the number of qualifying years of service and based on final salary level.
The severance indemnity obligation is treated as an unfunded dened benefit plan, and the obligation recognised is based on valuations performed by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method, which are regularly updated.
The obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present valueof the severance indemnity obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses are immediately recognised in other comprehensive income.
The most recent valuation was carried out in 2013 by Ernst & Young, a qualied actuary in Santiago-Chile who is not connected with the Group.
The main assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations were as follows: 2013 2012 Average nominal discount rate 5.3% 5.5% Average rate of increase in salaries 3.3% 2.8% Average staff turnover 4.8% 4.8% Amounts included in the income statement in respect of severance provisions are as follows: $m $m Current service cost charge to operating profit 16.0 11.7 Interest cost charge to interest expenses 3.9 3.3 Foreign exchange charge to other finance items 8.0 5.6 Total charge to income statement 11.9 20.6 Movement in the present value of severance provisions were as follows: 2013 2012 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 81.5 61.2 Current service cost 16.0 11.7 Actuarial losses 6.9 9.7 Charge capitalised 0.8 0.4 Interest cost 3.9 3.3 Paid in the year 9.9 10.4 Foreign currency exchange difference 8.0 5.6 Balance at the end of the year 91.2 81.5 152 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 26 Post-employment benefit obligations continued Assumptions description Discount rate The discount rate is the interest rate used to discount the estimated future severance payments to their present value.
The table below shows the principal instruments and assumptions utilised in determining the discount rate: 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Nominal discount rate 5.3% 5.5% 20-year Chilean 20-year Chilean Reference rate name Central Bank Bonds Central Bank Bonds Governmental or corporate rate Governmental Governmental Reference rating AAAA AAAA Corresponds to an issuance market primary or secondary market Secondary Secondary Issuance currency associated to the reference rate Chilean peso Chilean peso Date of determination of the reference interest rate December 04, 2013 December 07, 2012 Source of the reference interest rate Bloomberg Bloomberg Rate of increase in salaries This represents the estimated average rates of future salary increases, reecting likely future promotions and other changes.
This has been based on historical information for the Group for the period from 2009 to 2013.
Turnover rate This represents the estimated average level of future employee turnover.
Sensitive analysis significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the dened obligation are discount rate, expected salary increase and staff turnover.
The sensitive analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
If the discount rate is 100 basis points higher the dened benefit obligation would decrease by $7.1 million.
If the discount rate is 100 basis points lower the dened benefit obligation would increase by $8.1 million.
If the expected salary growth increases by 1% the dened benefit obligation would increase by $6.8 million.
If the expected salary growth decreases by 1% the dened benefit obligation would decrease by $6.3 million.
If the staff turnover increases by 1% the dened benefit obligation would decrease by $1.9 million.
If the staff turnover decreases by 1% the dened benefit obligation would increase by $2.1 million.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 153 27 Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during 2013 and 2012.
Temporary Accelerated differences capital on Withholding Short-term Mining tax allowances provisions tax differences Royalty Tax losses Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m At 1 January 2012 456.5 61.3 156.9 5.5 26.2 2.5 581.3 Charge credit to income 172.7 25.7 6.0 9.2 0.2 1.1 151.5 Charge capitalised 0.3 0.3 Charge deferred in equity 1.2 1.2 At 1 January 2013 628.9 87.0 150.9 13.5 26.4 1.4 731.3 Charge credit to income 91.1 21.0 81.1 0.2 8.6 0.5 160.1 Charge deferred in equity 2.4 2.4 At 31 December 2013 720.0 108.0 232.0 10.9 35.0 0.9 889.0 The charge to the income statement of $160.1 million 2012 $151.5 million charge includes a credit for foreign exchange differences of $2.1 million 2012 includes a charge of $0.9 million.
Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balance after offset : 2013 2012 $m $m Deferred tax assets 76.9 103.8 Deferred tax liabilities 965.9 835.1 Net deferred tax balances 889.0 731.3 At 31 December 2013, the Group had unused tax losses of $235.9 million 2012 $217.6 million available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of$4.5 million has been recognised in respect of these losses in 2013 2012 $7.1 million.
These losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
At 31 December 2013, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised was $5,124.5 million 2012 $4,939.8 million.
No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is likely that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associates are insignicant.
At 31 December 2013, the Group has deductible temporary differences of $500 million 2012 $500 million for which no deferred tax assets were recognised inthe balance sheet.
The amount relates to a provision against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment of the Antucoya project in 2012.
Further details inrespect of this are set out in Note 4.
154 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 28 Decommissioning and restoration and other long-term provisions 2013 2012 $m $m Balance at the beginning of the year 384.6 321.1 Charge to operating profit in the year 71.0 1.8 Release of discount to net interest in the year 10.3 9.1 Actuarial losses gain 3.5 2.1 Capitalised adjustment to provision 31.8 59.6 Utilised in year 5.5 6.0 Foreign currency exchange difference 1.4 1.1 Balance at the end of the year 494.3 384.6 Analysed as follows: Decommissioning and restoration 492.5 383.3 Termination of Water concession 1.8 1.3 Balance at the end of the year 494.3 384.6 a Decommissioning and restoration Decommissioning and restoration costs relate to the Groups mining operations.
Costs are estimated on the basis of a formal closure plan and are subject to regular independent formal review.
It is estimated that the provision will be utilised over a period of up to 46 years based on current mine plans.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the decommissioning and restoration provisions at the Groups mining operations were increased by a net total of $99.2 million, of which $31.8 million related to an increase in decommissioning costs which was capitalised, and a net charge of $67.4 million within operating profit related to an increase in restoration costs.
These net increases mainly reected the impact of increased cost estimates resulting from detailed updated reviews at Los Pelambres and Michilla, partly offset by a reduction in the discounted present value of the provision recognised at Esperanza, as a result of the extension of that operations end of mine life from 2030 to 2059.
The capitalised provision balances are depreciated over the life of the corresponding asset or mine life if shorter.
b Termination of Water concession The provision for the termination of the Water concession relates to the provision for items of plant, property and equipment and working capital items under Aguas fide Antofagastas ownership to be transferred to the previous state-owned operator ECONSSA formerly known as ESSAN at the end of the concession period, andis based on the net present value of the estimated value of those assets and liabilities in existence at the end of the concession.
29 Share capital and other reserves i Share capital The ordinary share capital of the Company is as follows: 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number Number $m $m Authorised Ordinary shares of 5p each 1,300,000,000 1,300,000,000 118.9 118.9 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number Number $m $m Issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 5p each 985,856,695 985,856,695 89.8 89.8 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to xed income.
Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting.
There were no changes in the authorised or issued share capital of the Company in either 2012 or 2013.
Details of the Companys preference share capital, whichisincluded within borrowings in accordance with IAS 32, are given in Note 22a xiii.
ii Other reserves Details of the share premium account, hedging, fair value and translation reserves and retained earnings for both 2012 and 2013 are included within the Consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 110.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 155 30 Non-controlling interests The non-controlling interests of the Group during 2013 and 2012 are as follows: Capital Capital Share of increase contribution Nonprofit loss for on nonfrom nonHedging and controlling the financial controlling controlling Share of actuarial interest At 01.01.13 year interest interest dividends reserves At 31.12.13 %Country $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Los Pelambres 40.0 Chile 980.5 477.7 422.1 5.2 1,030.9 Esperanza 30.0 Chile 397.6 88.1 1.2 486.9 El Tesoro 30.0 Chile 294.2 67.6 30.0 1.1 332.9 Michilla 25.8 Chile 50.8 11.5 1.9 37.4 Antucoya 30.0 Chile 115.6 1.6 91.1 0.1 26.2 Twin Metals 60.0 USA 70.4 39.9 13.3 18.7 62.5 Railway and other transport services 50.0 Bolivia 16.3 0.2 1.4 14.7 Total 1,694.2 580.2 13.3 109.8 452.1 6.3 1,939.1 Capital Capital Share of Change in increase contribution Nonprofit loss for ownership on nonfrom nonHedging and controlling the financial interest in controlling controlling Share of actuarial interest At 01.01.12 year subsidiaries interest interest dividends reserves At 31.12.12 %Country $m $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Los Pelambres 40.0 Chile 953.1 646.5 622.6 3.5 980.5 Esperanza 30.0 Chile 220.0 174.9 2.6 397.5 El Tesoro 30.0 Chile 298.8 71.7 75.0 1.3 294.2 Michilla 25.8 Chile 50.4 2.2 3.9 2.1 50.8 Antucoya i 30.0 Chile 150.6 18.2 16.8 115.6 Twin Metals 60.0 USA 72.1 42.8 31.1 10.1 70.5 Railway and other transport services 50.0 Bolivia 16.8 0.5 1.0 16.3 Total 1,611.2 702.4 18.2 31.1 26.9 702.5 6.91,694.2 Notes to the non-controlling interest i On 14 December 2011, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement with Marubeni Corporation under which Marubeni would become 30% partner in the Antucoya project and fund its 30% share of the development cost.
The transaction closed on 31 July 2012 resulting in $359.6 million being received by the Group.
156 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 30 Non-controlling interests continued Summarised financial position and cash ow for the years ended 2013 and 2012 Los Pelambres Esperanza El Tesoro Michilla Antucoya 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 $m $m $m $m $m Non-controlling interest % 40.0%30.0%30.0% 25.8%30.0% Cash and cash equivalent 192.4 205.9 300.9 34.0 47.1 Current assets 675.2 540.5 290.0 103.8 38.1 Non-current assets 2,881.8 2,627.2 698.2 89.8 680.8 Current liabilities 338.6 797.5 156.5 39.9 694.9 Non-current liabilities 846.8 1,037.1 137.6 54.3 177.9 Accumulated non-controlling interest 1,030.9 486.9 332.9 37.4 26.2 Net cash ow from operating activities 1,168.1 466.1 502.8 41.6 24.6 Net cash ow from investing activities 160.4 217.9 292.5 17.2 574.3 Net cash ow from nancing activities 1,196.2 603.1 183.7 598.1 Los Pelambres Esperanza El Tesoro Michilla Antucoya 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 $m $m $m $m $m Non-controlling interest % 40.0% 30.0% 30.0% 25.8% 30.0% Cash and cash equivalent 380.9 669.8 137.5 9.6 47.9 Current assets 514.1 452.5 432.1 126.5 64.1 Non-current assets 2,796.3 2,518.6 642.3 135.0 1.2 Current liabilities 369.7 1,075.8 177.1 41.5 504.2 Non-current liabilities 883.9 1,320.3 220.8 43.4 1.8 Accumulated non-controlling interest 980.5 397.5 294.2 50.8 115.6 Net cash ow from operating activities 1,985.7 863.9 397.9 6.2 54.2 Net cash ow from investing activities 101.7 302.0 78.3 57.9 293.8 Net cash ow from nancing activities 1,697.4 147.3 331.7 15.0 395.9 Notes to the summarised financial position and cash ow i The amounts disclosed for each subsidiary are based on the amounts included in the consolidated financial statements ie 100% of the results and balances of the subsidiary rather than the non-controlling interest proportionate share before inter-company eliminations.
ii Summarised income statement information is shown in the segment information in Note 6.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 157 31 Notes to the consolidated cash ow statement a Reconciliation of profit before tax to net cash inow from operating activities 2013 2012 $m $m profit before tax 2,083.5 2,761.8 Depreciation and amortisation 517.7 494.2 Provision against carrying value of assets 500.0 Net loss profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 12.4 3.3 Net finance expense 74.2 90.9 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 14.4 20.8 Decrease increase in inventories 1.8 108.8 Increase decrease in debtors 148.2 25.4 Increase in creditors and provisions 103.4 45.0 Cash ows from operations 2,659.2 3,826.0 b Analysis of changes in net cash At 1.1.
12 Cash ows Other Exchange At 31.12.12 $m $m $m $m $m Cash and cash equivalents 1,335.1 462.7 13.5 1,811.3 Liquid investments 1,944.9 535.7 2,480.6 Total cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 3,280.0 998.4 13.5 4,291.9 Bank borrowings due within one year 293.5 192.1 332.9 434.3 Bank borrowings due after one year 1,767.9 68.2 322.5 1,377.2 Finance leases due within one year 8.4 12.7 15.5 1.5 12.7 Finance leases due after one year 67.4 8.5 2.9 61.8 Preference shares 3.1 0.1 3.2 Total borrowings 2,140.3 273.0 17.4 4.5 1,889.2 Net cash 1,139.7 1,271.4 17.4 9.0 2,402.7 158 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements The Chilean Water Regulator Superintendencia fide Servicios Sanitarios 31 Notes to the consolidated cash ow sets domestic tariffs every five years following a regulatory review, including statement continued representations from the operator of the concession.
The last regulatory review was completed during 2011 and there was not significant variation compared c Net cash tothe last regulatory review in 2006.
2013 2012 34 Exchange rates in US dollars $m $m Cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments 2,685.1 4,291.9 Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into dollars and sterling at the period end rates of exchange.
Total borrowings 1,373.9 1,889.2 Results denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into dollars at 1,311.2 2,402.7 the average rate for each period.
2013 2012 32 Operating lease arrangements US$1.6515 1: US$1.6163 1: 2013 2012 Year end rates US$1 Ch$524.61 US$1 Ch$479.96 $m $m US$1.5630 1: US$1.5835 1: Minimum lease payments under operating leases Average rates US$1 Ch$495.00 US$1 Ch$486.75 recognised inincome for the year 23.5 20.5 35 Related party transactions At the balance sheet date, the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related due as follows: parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below.
2013 2012 $m $m The transactions which Group companies entered into with related parties who Within one year 23.8 16.7 are not members of the Group are set out below.
In the second to fifth years inclusive 21.3 20.2 a Quienco S. A.
After five years 2.3 5.2 Quienco S. A. Quienco is a Chilean financial and industrial conglomerate, 47.4 42.1 the shares of which are traded on the Santiago Stock Exchange.
The Group Operating lease payments relate mainly to rental of plant and equipment by and Quienco are both under the control of the Luksic family, and three operating subsidiaries of the Group.
Directors of the Company, Jean-Paul Luksic, Andrnico Luksic and Gonzalo Menndez, are also directors of Quienco.
33 Concession arrangements The following material transactions took place between the Group and the Quienco group of companies, all of which were on normal commercial terms: In 2003, the Group was awarded a 30-year concession to operate the water rights and facilities in the Antofagasta Region of Chile previously controlled the Group sold copper cathodes during the year for $6.8 million 2012 by the state-owned operator ECONSSA formerly known as ESSAN.
$11.1 million to Madeco S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco.
The balance due The concession consists of two businesses, one an unregulated business from Madeco at the end of the year was less than $0.1 million 2012 supplying mines and other industrial users and the other a regulated water $0.1 million : business supplying domestic customers.
The concession contract was signed the Group bought copper wire from Madeco for $0.8 million 2012 and control of the assets and operation assumed on 29 December 2003 for $0.3 million : byAguas fide Antofagasta S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group.
the Group earned interest income of $0.7 million 2012 $2.4 million Under the concession contract, certain assets and liabilities mainly certain duringthe year on deposits with Banco fide Chile S. A. a subsidiary of specic tangible xed assets and working capital items were transferred Quienco.
Deposit balances at the end of the year were $48.7 million toAguas fide Antofagasta by way of sale.
Other assets mainly water rights 2012$83.4 million : and infrastructure were transferred by way of concession and will devolve the Group earned interest income of $1.1 million 2012 $0.7 million toECONSSA at the end of the 30-year period.
during the year on investments with BanChile Corredores fide Bolsa S. A. Aguas fide Antofagasta will also be required to transfer to ECONSSA any asubsidiary of Quienco.
Investment balances at the end of the year were tangible xed assets and working capital items under its ownership at the end $17.3 million 2012 $35.9 million : of the 30-year concession period.
A provision for the termination of the Water the Group bought fuel from ENEX S. A. a subsidiary of Quienco, of concession has been created for the xed assets and working capital items $79.2 million 2012 $74.6 million.
The balance due from ENEX S. A. at the under Aguas fide Antofagastas ownership to be transferred to ECONSSA at the end of the year was nil 2012 $1.7 million : and end of the concession period.
The provision is based on the net present value the Group has contract shipping services from Compaia Sudamericana fide ofthe estimated value of these assets and liabilities in existence at the end of the Vapores S. A. subsidiary of Quienco, of $0.5 million 2012 $6.6 million.
The release of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of future costs is charged to the income statement in each accounting period and is disclosed as a nancing cost.
Further details of this provision are given in Note 28 b.
Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 159 b Compaa fide Inversiones Adritico S. A. i Inversiones Hornitos S. A.
In 2012, the Group leased ofce space on normal commercial terms from As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 40% interest in Inversiones Hornitos Compaa fide Inversiones Adritico S. A. a company controlled by the Luksic S. A. which is accounted for as an associate.
The Group paid $167.8 million family, at a cost of less than $0.7 million 2012 $0.7 million.
year ended 31 December 2012 $129 million to Inversiones Hornitos inrelation to the energy supply contract at Esperanza and El Tesoro.
c Compaa Antofagasta Terminal Internacional S. A. j Sale of 30% interest in Minera Antucoya to Marubeni As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 30% interest in Antofagasta Terminal Corporation Internacional S. A. ATI which is accounted for as an associate.
During 2013, the Group has not received dividends from ATI 2012 $1.1 million.
On 14 December 2011, the Group signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Marubeni Corporation Marubeni pursuant to which Marubeni would d Antomin Limited, Antomin 2 Limited and Antomin become a 30% partner in the Antucoya project for consideration totalling Investors Limited $350 million and a commitment to fund its pro rata share of the development costs of the project.
This transaction closed on 31 July 2012 resulting in The Group holds a 51% interest in Antomin 2 Limited Antomin 2 and $359.6 million being received by the Group, comprising consideration of Antomin Investors Limited Antomin Investors, which own a number of copper $351.8 million base consideration of $350 million plus interest to completion exploration properties.
The Group originally acquired its 51% interest in these of $1.8 million and pre-closing capital contributions attributable to Marubeni properties for a nominal consideration from Mineralinvest Establishment, a of$7.8 million.
company controlled by the Luksic family, which continues to hold the remaining Marubeni holds a 30% interest in Minera Esperanza and Minera El Tesoro.
49% of Antomin 2 and Antomin Investors.
During the year ended 31 December Marubeni is a related party of the Group for the purposes of the Listing Rules 2013 the Group incurred $22.1 million year ended 31 December 2012 of the United Kingdom Listing Authority as it holds a significant interest in these $16.5 million of exploration work at these properties.
two subsidiaries of the Group.
e Tethyan Copper Company Limited k El Arrayn As explained in Note 17 the Group has a 50% interest in Tethyan Copper As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 30% interest in Parque Elico El Company Limited Tethyan, which is a joint venture with Barrick Gold Arrayn S. A. El Arrayn, which is accounted for as an associate.
During 2013 Corporation over Tethyans mineral interests in Pakistan.
During the year the the Group has not contributed to El Arrayn year ended December 2012 Group contributed $7.0 million 2012 $9.9 million to Tethyan, to provide funds $19.6 million.
for Tethyans legal advisory and administrative costs.
The balance due from Tethyan to Group companies at the end of the year was nil 2012 $0.1 million.
l Alto Maipo SpA f Energa Andina S. A.
As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 40% interest in Alto Maipo SpA Alto Maipo, which is accounted for as an associate.
During 2013 the As explained in Note 17, the Group has a 60% interest in Energa Andina, Group contributed $2.4 million to Alto Maipo SpA for a total contribution which is a joint venture with Origin Energy Geothermal Chile Limitada for of $52.6 million in 2013.
The balance due from Alto Maipo to the Group at the exploration and exploitation of potential sources of geothermal energy.
31 December 2013 was $47.0 million representing loan nancing with an The balance due from Energa Andina S. A. to the Group at 31 December interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus 4.25%.
2013 was less than $0.1 million 31 December 2012 less than $0.1 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Group contributed $21.6 million to Energa Andina year ended December 2012 $14.5 million.
36 Litigation g Minera Cerro Centinela S. A. Tethyan Copper Company Pty Limited Minera Cerro Centinela S. A. Centinela, an entity ultimately controlled by The Group holds a 50% interest in Tethyan Copper Company Pty Limited the Luksic family, has an interest of 7.973% in Minera Michilla S. A. Michilla, Tethyan, its joint venture with Barrick Gold Corporation Barrick.
In February a shareholding it has held since Michilla was created through the merger of 2011, Tethyan submitted an application for a mining lease to the government of two predecessor companies on 31 December 1993.
During the year ended Balochistan, which was subsequently rejected in November 2011.
31 December 2013 Michilla has not paid dividends year ended 31 December Tethyan is pursuing two international arbitrations in order to protect its legal 2012 $1.2 million to Centinela.
rights: one against the Government of Pakistan under the auspices of the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes ICSID, and h Directors and other key management personnel another against the Government of Balochistan under the auspices of the Information relating to Directors remuneration and interests are given in International Chamber of Commerce ICC.
Tethyan is seeking monetary the Remuneration report on pages 90 to 100.
Information relating to the damages only and is no longer seeking the grant of a mining lease at Reko Diq.
remuneration of key management personnel including the Directors is given The ICC tribunal has scheduled a hearing on preliminary issues to take place inNote 7. in the week commencing 23 June 2014.
The ICSID tribunal has scheduled a hearing on jurisdiction and liability to take place over a two-week period commencing 6 October 2014.
160 Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 37 Contingent liabilities 38 Events after the balance sheet date Antofagasta plc or its subsidiaries is subject to various claims which arise in During February 2014 Esperanza signed a re-nancing agreement in respect the ordinary course of business.
No provision has been made in the financial of its project nancing senior debt.
As detailed in Note 22, the balance of the statements and none of these claims are currently expected to result in any existing project nancing as at 31 December 2013 was $593 million.
The rematerial loss to the Group.
Details of the principal claims in existence either nancing has resulted in a net increase in the loan balance to $900 million, with during or at the end of the year and the current status is set out below: the borrowings having a remaining term of between four and five years and an interest rate of LIBOR six-month plus 1%.
As a result of this re-nancing Los Pelambres Mauro tailings dam the guarantees in respect of Esperanzas xed assets $2,120.2 million and inventories $144.9 million were released.
As previously announced, during 2008 Los Pelambres entered into binding In March 2014 the Group acquired an additional 25.7% interest in Michilla settlements in respect of litigation relating to the Mauro tailings dam.
Since that for $30.9 million, increasing the Groups interest from 74.2% to 99.9%.
time, Los Pelambres has become aware of further legal proceedings which This included the acquisition of the 7.973% stake held by Minera Cerro had been initiated in first instance courts in Santiago and Los Vilos by Centinela S. A. an entity ultimately controlled by the Luksic family, for certain members of the Caimanes community located near the Mauro valley.
These claims, some of which have already been rejected by the relevant courts, sought to stop the operation of the Mauro tailings dam.
Two of these claims are currently ongoing and Los Pelambres is continuing to take necessary steps to 39 Ultimate Parent Company protect its position.
The immediate parent of the Group is Metalinvest Establishment, which is In the first of these claims, the plaintiffs have argued that the tailings dam affects controlled by E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the Luksic family their alleged water rights and the environment.
This claim was rejected by the are interested.
Court of first instance of Los Vilos in a judgement issued in November 2012, Both Metalinvest Establishment and the E. Abaroa Foundation are domiciled in which was than afrmed by the court of Appeals of La Serena in August 2013.
Information relating to the interest of Metalinvest Establishment An action to vacate this last judgement, based only on the application of the law and the E. Abaroa Foundation are given in the Directors report.
cassation, was later led before the Supreme Court and is currently pending.
In the second claim, the plaintiffs are seeking demolition of the dam on the basis of the risk that its collapse would pose to the community.
This case is still before the Court of first instance of Los Vilos.
In considering its judgement, the Court is taking into account reports prepared by an independent expert at the request of the Court, reports prepared by experts commissioned by Minera LosPelambres and several reports issued by the Chilean Mining Safety Authority SERNAGEOMIN.
