Additional Information: Shareholder Information To set up a new dividend mandate please Registrars details Warning about share fraud log on to shareview.
co. uk or contact our All matters relating to the administration of Share fraud includes scams where investors Registrars, Equiniti Limited, on the shareholder shareholdings in National Express Group PLC, are called out of the blue and offered shares helpline number 0871 384 2152 or such as the loss of a share certificate, dividend that often turn out to be worthless or non- 441214157047 from overseas.
payments or a change of address, should be existent, or an inflated price for shares they directed to our Registrars, Equiniti Limited, own.
These calls come from fraudsters Share dealing service Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West operating in boiler rooms that are mostly A telephone and internet share dealing service, Sussex BN99 6DA: shareholder helpline based abroad.
which provides a simple way to buy and sell number 0871 384 2152 or 44 121 415 7047 shares, is available through our Registrars, While high profits are promised, those who from overseas.
If you are registered for online Equiniti.
For further information log on buy or sell shares in this way usually lose shareholder communications you can contact to shareview.
co. uk dealing or telephone their money.
0845 603 7037 calls to this number The Financial Conduct Authority FCA and are charged by BT at the local rate or Shareholder electronic Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA, which 44 121 415 7560 from overseas.
communications replaced the Financial Services Authority on National Express encourages shareholders 1 April 2013, have found most share fraud Company website to use our online communications service.
victims are experienced investors who lose The Company website at www.
By registering for electronic communications, an average of 20,000, with around 200m nationalexpressgroup.
com has information this provides a faster way to receive information lost in the UK each year.
about the Group, including press releases, and helps us to reduce print, paper and share price data and copies of the half-year postage costs.
How to avoid share fraud results and Annual Report and Accounts If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, as well as corporate responsibility reporting.
co. uk if you would discounted shares, a premium price for shares The Company no longer publishes the like to: you own, or free company or research reports, half-year results in hard copy.
These will you should take these steps before handing register your e-mail so that you are able now only be available via the website.
over any money: to access future shareholder information, including the Annual Report and Accounts ShareGift 1.
Get the name of the person and electronically: ShareGift is an independent charity share organisation contacting you.
check the balance of your shareholding: donation scheme administered by the Orr 2.
Check the FCA Register at www.
uk set up a dividend mandate online: Mackintosh Foundation registered charity register to ensure they are authorised.
change your registered postal address number 1052686.
Those shareholders who or your dividend mandate details: or hold only a small number of shares, the value 3.
Use the details on the FCA Register to submit your vote online prior to of which makes it uneconomic to sell them, contact the firm.
can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide 4.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 To sign up for the first time you should click on range of charities.
Further information about 111 6768 freephone or 44 20 7066 1000 Register and follow the simple instructions ShareGift can be obtained from its website from overseas if there are no contact details on you will need your shareholder reference at sharegift.
org and a ShareGift transfer the Register or you are told they are out of date.
number from your share certificate or dividend form can be downloaded from voucher or any other correspondence sent to 5.
Search the FCAs list of unauthorised firms www.
and individuals to avoid doing business with.
Unclaimed Assets Register If you have any queries, contact our Registrars, 6.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be The Company participates in the Unclaimed Equiniti Limited, on the shareholder helpline true, it probably is!
Assets Register UAR which provides a search number 0871 384 2152 or 44 121 415 7047 facility for shareholdings and other financial If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell from overseas.
assets that may have been forgotten.
shares or other investments, you will not have For further information contact UAR by access to the Financial Ombudsman Service Dividends paid direct to your email at uarenquiries@uk.
com, or Financial Services Compensation Scheme bank account Tel:0844 481 8180 or visit www.
Having dividends paid direct to your bank account has the following advantages: Unsolicited mail Report a scam We are legally obliged to make our register If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell avoids the risk of cheques being lost and of members available, subject to a proper the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at incurring a replacement fee: purpose test, to the public.
uk scams, where you can find out saves you time in presenting the cheque for of this some shareholders might receive more about investment scams, or call the FCA payment: and unsolicited mail.
Shareholders wishing to limit Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. the dividend is credited to your account on the amount of such mail should write to the the payment date.
If you have already paid money to share Mailing Preference Service, FREEPOST 29 fraudsters you should contact ActionFraud Consolidated Tax Vouchers LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
The Company now issues a Consolidated Tax can also register online at www.
Voucher CTV once a year to all shareholders uk or request an application form by calling save for corporate and institutional shareholders.
from within the UK: 0845 703 4599 or by The first CTV is included with the 2014 AGM email to mps@dma.
mailing and will contain the tax and payment information for dividends paid during the tax year 2013 14.
Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
168 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
