36 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Introduction to the financial statements and the cash raised from debt or share issues and other We have adopted a revised presentational format to loan borrowings or repayments Financing activities.
provide shareholders and users of these financial statements with additional information and guidance and Notes to make them easier to understand.
Notes to the financial statements provide additional information required by statute, accounting standards or Throughout these financial statements we have included other regulations to assist in a more detailed Keeping it simple paragraphs, providing commentary in understanding of the primary financial statements.
In many plain English on what the disclosures mean and why they notes we have included an accounting policy that are important to the understanding of our financial describes how the transactions or balance in that note performance and position.
We also include a number of have been measured, recognised and disclosed.
The basis sections highlighting Our strategy in action which draw of preparation section provides details of accounting out the key elements of our business model which is set policies that apply to transactions and balances in general.
out in the Strategic Review on pages 2 to 31 and show how the disclosures reflect this strategy.
Keeping it simple Consolidated financial statements We are required to present certain minimum information in the primary financial statements, which together set out the overview of the results of the business for the year and financial position at year end.
The consolidated income statement shows all revenue earned and costs incurred in the year, with the difference being the overall profit for the year.
The consolidated statement of comprehensive income records certain items as prescribed by the accounting rules.
For us, the majority of the income or expense included here relates to movements in actuarial assumptions on pension schemes and the associated tax impact.
These items are not part of profit for the year, yet are important to allow the reader to gain a more comprehensive picture of our performance as a whole.
The consolidated statement of financial position sets out all the Groups assets and liabilities at the year end, analysed between the net assets we have for use in the business and those held for sale.
As a capital intensive business, we have significant amounts of physical assets and corresponding borrowings.
The consolidated statement of changes in equity shows the additions where it came from and reductions where it went to equity.
For us, the main items included here are the profit earned and dividends paid in the year.
The consolidated cash flow statement shows how the cash balance has moved during the year.
Cash inflows and outflows are presented to allow users to understand how they relate to the day to day operations of the business Operating activities : the money that has been spent or earned on assets in the year, including acquisitions of physical assets or other businesses Investing activities :
