6 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 Operating environment Our operations are influenced and affected by what is going on the significant level of investment required may create in the world around us.
We shape our decision making to try opportunities for growth.
and balance the impact of these external factors, so we can Regulatory developments deliver value for our customers and other stakeholders.
The regulatory focus during the year has been the finalisation of Macroeconomic factors the new RIIO price controls.
RIIO gives greater focus to Our price controls are agreed against the backdrop of the incentives and innovation than the previous regulatory regime.
In addition to the investment required for new connections and In the UK, low economic growth is projected in 2013 and, as a to meet the challenges of changing supply and demand result, it is unlikely that we will see a significant decline in the patterns, we need to replace ageing infrastructure.
Cast iron unemployment rate during 2013. gas mains still in use can be more than 100 years old and over time can create a safety risk and also contribute to greenhouse The environment for infrastructure investment in the UK and gas emissions through leaks.
Europe is evolving, with new investors continuing to be attracted to regulated assets.
Sovereign wealth and Innovation and technology infrastructure funds are becoming more prominent investors in New technology can change the way we do business.
of technological development in the energy sector is accelerating as new technologies take shape and approach Changing energy mix commercial viability.
While carbon-based generation is likely to Our networks exist to transmit and distribute energy from its remain a significant part of the global energy mix, carbon source to its place of use.
Changes to the energy mix and capture and storage technologies may become critical to location of centres of supply and demand will create pressures governments achieving their climate change targets.
We may need to continue to invest in our networks to meet these challenges.
Innovation goes further than new technology.
We need to increase the flexibility of our infrastructure to respond to Some older coal fired power stations are closing to comply with developments as they arise.
This can mean managing energy the Large Combustion Plant Directive and recent fuel prices and networks differently, rather than creating new infrastructure have reduced the economic viability of gas fired power stations to meet supply and demand changes.
to the point where some are now being mothballed or closed.
Looking further ahead, a continued decline in fossil fuel fired electricity generation is to be expected if the governments carbon reduction targets are to be met.
Where gas comes into the UK is changing with forecast reductions in North Sea production and increased reliance on imported gas.
We will need to adapt our network to ensure sufficient capacity is in place to move gas from these different source locations to the demand centres.
Energy policy Policy decisions by governments, government authorities and others can have a direct impact on our business.
They can affect the amount and location of investment required in our networks and the way we operate.
They can also change our compliance obligations.
Understanding the evolving policy environment is important to understanding the challenges and opportunities we have ahead.
Energy policy continues to evolve from the Climate Change Act 2008 which commits the UK government to reducing UK greenhouse gas emissions to a level at least 80% lower than a 1990 baseline by 2050.
At a European level, the three cornerstones of sustainability, security of supply and affordability underpin energy policy.
Greater levels of market integration, interconnection and renewable generation are fundamental to achieving these policy objectives.
While European developments present challenges,
