National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2012 13 43 Recent accounting developments material impact on the Companys consolidated financial New IFRS accounting standards and statements.
interpretations adopted in 2012 13 During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Company has not adopted any new IFRS, IAS or amendments issued by the IASB, or interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, which have had a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
New IFRS accounting standards and interpretations not yet adopted The Company enters into a significant number of transactions that fall within the scope of IFRS 9 on financial instruments.
The IASB is completing IFRS 9 in phases and the Company is evaluating the impact of the standard as it develops.
It is currently expected that the standard will be required to be adopted by the Company on 1 April 2015.
We are currently assessing the likely impact of this standard on the Companys consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 10 on consolidated financial statements, IFRS 11 on joint arrangements, IFRS 12 on disclosures of interests in other entities and IFRS 13 on fair value measurements and consequent amendments to IAS 27 and IAS 28 were issued in May 2011.
These standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The standards are required to be adopted by the Company on 1 April 2013.
The amended version of IAS 19 on employee benets, issued in June 2011 and effective for periods beginning after 1 January 2013, requires net interest to be calculated on the net dened benefit asset liability using the same discount rate used to measure the dened benefit obligation.
Where the expected return on assets exceeds the discount rate, the adoption of the amended standard will result in a reduction in reported net income and an increase in other comprehensive income OCI.
As the Company does not recognise any defined benefit pension obligations within its financial statements, this amended standard will not directly impact on the Companys financial statements.
The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, issued in June 2011 and effective for periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012, require entities to group items presented in OCI based on whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently.
It also requires tax associated with any items presented before tax to be shown separately for each of the two groups of OCI items.
These amendments are presentational only and will not affect the results of the Group when adopted.
Other standards and interpretations or amendments thereto which have been issued, but are not yet effective, are not expected to have a
