888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Operations: Delivering on our plans Success driven by Technology Leadership Technology leadership remains the foundation of and driver for 888s continued growth and success.
Our best-in-breed platform combined with industry-leading back office systems and unique expertise in online marketing, all underpinned by state of the art analytics developed over more than 15 years, delivers a powerful competitive advantage.
Our technical edge and strong analytical capabilities together drive the success of our products from initial development right through to marketing and customer service.
As a result we are able to focus our resources on individual customers to ensure they enjoy the best possible customer experience whilst growing their lifetime value to 888.
We have continued to enhance our comprehensive analytical tools over time including the development and addition of new features to our CRM armoury, allowing our marketing spend to be increasingly effective and resulting in positive customer conversion and retention trends.
Our consistency and leadership was recognised at the 2013 Egaming Review Operator Awards when 888 was the winner Further details of our Research and Development activities in the prestigious Poker Operator of the Year, Casino Operator during the year are set out in the Directors Report on page of the Year and Best Operator of the Year categories.
This was 25. the third consecutive year 888 has won the Poker Operator of the Year award: a notable achievement that is testament B2C to the strength of our platform and our relentless focus on 888 is a global gaming destination with core products in continuous improvement and innovation.
Casino, Poker and Bingo as well as an emerging offering in Sport.
888 has more than a dozen localised offerings Continuous Innovation providing players in more than 100 countries with the games Innovation is central to 888s business and we have continued they want in the languages they speak.
to invest in and develop our technology to maintain the delivery of best-in-class multi-regulation, multi-product and Casino multi-platform offerings.
Casino has enjoyed another strong year across a variety of Successful online gaming destinations offer customers safe, markets, with particularly good growth generated across enjoyable and innovative environments in which to play.
Europe, notably in Italy, the United Kingdom and in Spain, As online gaming evolves, 888 is focused on innovating where we have maintained a market leading position.
This and developing at the fore of the industry to ensure that significant achievement in part reflects the momentum we our players continue to be provided with the compelling have continued to build during the course of the year around and dynamic games that we are known for, thus enhancing Casino 50, our casino offering which was launched in the customer satisfaction and ultimately encouraging repeat first quarter of 2012.
Our teams have continued to evolve and visits.
refresh our offer, enhancing the customer experience, launching new exclusive 888 developed slot games and supporting As well as delivering continuous improvements across our the product with strong marketing campaigns.
We have core product verticals, a key area of focus this year has been remained highly focused on player acquisition and delivered 888s mobile offering.
The increasing use of smartphones and very effective results with active Casino players continuing to tablet devices has resulted in mobile becoming one of the increase against the prior year.
major engines of growth in online gaming.
The rapid rate of adoption and growth in players across this channel presents As well as increasing active customers we aim to further unique challenges and opportunities for the industry as enhance brand loyalty amongst our players, which ultimately operators develop their understandings of customer habits results in increased lifetime value.
We have continued to make and profiles on this relatively immature platform.
progress against this objective this year, in part as a result of the continuous development of our leading games portfolio 888 has been quick to recognise the transformational nature and content, aided by the capabilities of our in-house Games of mobile for the online gaming industry.
In 2013 we focused Studio, ensuring that we remain at the fore significant resources and investment on developing our of the online gaming experience.
products and understanding of this increasingly important channel.
This has included the launch of new iOS and Android Poker Poker and Casino apps during the course of the year along Poker delivered another strong performance with the number with a new and improved mobile Bingo product which has of active players increasing more than 21% in Q4 against the shown good customer traction.
This impressive growth, achieved in what remains a highly competitive market, is a result of the continued and In 2012 we integrated our social gaming business into our relentless execution of our stated poker strategy of focusing technological organisation with our team working alongside on recreational players and providing them with a safe and our excellent product developers.
We have continued to enjoyable ecosystem.
Our poker product is an accepted review our product suite in 2013 and look at new ways to industry leader and we have continued to take market share develop this area of our customer offer.
com Free 88 No Deposit needed SL T S | BL CKJ A CK | R ULETTE | LIVE CA SIN www.
com resulting in 888 rising fr Available for om number four to number two in B2B Android 18 Ts & Cs apply gambleaware.
co. uk the global poker liquidity rankings according to PokerScout Dragonfish, our B2B offering, is a key component of our during the course of the year.
This is an impressive achievement regulated market strategy.
Through our market leading B2C that is testament to our ongoing and meticulous network offering we have built a reputation for developing the best management in combination with our smart marketing possible platform for operation and therefore an incentive strategy.
The increasing popularity of mobile has also for companies to partner with Dragonfish in order to gain a contributed to our strong Poker performance, with mobile foothold in newly regulating territories.
devices ideally suited to the preferences and playing habits 2013 has seen solid growth in this area of the business with of our target recreational players.
Overall, we have delivered revenues up 5% on the prior year as we have developed our a good performance across territories with our leadership B2B bingo platform as well as our Globalcom bingo network, position in the Spanish market being particularly pleasing.
where we remain one of the leading bingo software providers Bingo in the UK market supplying many leading brands, as well as the relationships with our US partners.
The Bingo market remains a highly competitive and mature market that has proved to be challenging for operators over Success in New Markets the course of 2013.
However, at the start of the year we took Our ability to launch in newly regulated markets with proactive action and conducted a strategic review of this impressive results reflects our proven platform and segment along with extensive market research.
As a result, technological systems and provides an excellent base for we have restructured the department into a fully integrated continuing growth.
During the year we have continued to product vertical, replicating the approach we have in Casino build impressively on our success in the recently regulated and Poker, and have readdressed the whole look, shape and Spanish and Italian markets, further establishing the 888 feel of our Bingo customer experience through a number brand in Italy and developing a market-leading position of operational and technical improvements.
revenue for 2013 was 16% lower compared to the prior year, we are delighted to have seen steady progress during the Undoubtedly the key focus for international expansion over second half of the year, with revenue in Q4 up 7% against Q3, the course of 2013 has been the US market as we prepared and feel confident that this improving trend will continue as for the long-awaited regulation of Delaware, Nevada and we enter 2014.
The improvement has also in part been driven New Jersey.
by the re-launch of Bingo on mobile devices during the year As previously outlined, in the run up to regulation in the US which has demonstrated tremendous growth both in terms market we had ensured that through our focused strategy of player recruitment and generating deposits.
and partnerships we would be ideally positioned to leverage Sport own market leading platforms, technological innovation and marketing expertise as the market opened.
Experiences learnt 888sport remains a relatively small part of our business.
from our successful launches in Spain and Italy in recent years However, the sport market is important to our customers, further strengthened our position to execute our US strategy especially around major sporting events, and also acts as an and, by January 2014, our poker platform had built leading important acquisition tool enabling us to build our customer positions in each market.
base and migrate players across products.
Our launch in each state has provided different challenges We continue to recognise both the need to invest in our Sport but has also provided a number of lessons and equipped offering and the growth opportunity in this market.
In May us with new skills on which to build as we launch in further we were delighted to announce that the Group had signed an states as and when regulation occurs.
We have made further agreement with Kambi Sports Solutions, a leading sportsbook investment in the US, supporting our operations with data supplier, to deliver a fully managed sportsbook solution to 888 centres for each of the regulated states and we remain under the 888sport brand.
We have now integrated our sport committed to our objective of becoming the pre-eminent offering into our core platform, which allows us to leverage all online gaming operations and services provider in the key of our market-leading capabilities.
The agreement with Kambi US market as both a B2C operator and a B2B provider has allowed us to offer a broader range of betting materials via Dragonfish.
and products for the UK and other markets through both online and mobile channels.
The improved 888sport offer was launched during the spring supported by an exciting marketing campaign and has delivered positive results with both margin and revenue improvement.
Stock Code: 888 07 23124.04 25 March 2014 6:24 AM Proof 11 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Operations: Delivering on our plans ePayment and Fraud 888s leading payment processing capabilities support 18 languages and a wide variety of currencies with more than 50 payment methods supported.
It is vital that we are able to offer fast, efficient and easy to use payment processing, both to ensure a positive customer experience but also to maximise revenue and convert browsers into players.
However we take our duty as a responsible operator very seriously and take comprehensive steps to minimise fraud.
2014 Focus 2013 has been an incredibly rewarding year.
Not only have we delivered strong growth across our core business but we have firmly cemented our strategy in the regulating US market.
As we entered 2014 our US operations, although still in their very early stages, were starting to build momentum and we are focused on refining and developing our current business as well as working with our partners to explore new opportunities in regulated states.
There is undoubtedly appetite for further regulation across the US with a number of states in advanced talks and throughout the course of the year we will be monitoring these potential markets closely for opportunities for 888.
We firmly believe that through our strategy, growing experience and the investment we are making in the US market for the long term, we are best placed to take advantage as these opportunities come to bear.
Across our core business the year ahead promises some exciting areas for development.
In 2013 a significant amount of resource was focused on delivering in the US and in 2014 we will be able to re-direct a significant portion of this resource to further developing our core products and markets.
The surge in mobile gaming has proved to be an important growth engine during 2013.
Whilst we have made good progress in developing our touch platforms to date, this market is still in its infancy and will offer much more to learn and leverage as it develops.
Following our partnership with Kambi Sports Solutions, our 888sport brand has been revitalised and its performance to date in 2014 has been very encouraging.
In January 2014 we acquired a company holding a license allowing us to launch our Sport offer in the Spanish market, and we feel confident that the forthcoming year will see us take further significant steps forward in this market.
Customer Support and Service In summary, 2014 promises to be another very exciting year We pride ourselves on the strength of our customer in 888s continued development.
relationships and are committed to providing a cost effective and efficient customer service.
First class customer support is offered for each of our brands and white labels through telephone, e-mail and chat to customers around the world in 8 different languages.
We have ensured our customer service capability has been ready to support our growing operations in new and established markets and have not only hired new people Brian Mattingley in this field across the business but are in the process of Chief Executive establishing a dedicated operations centre in New Jersey to 25 March 2014 support our growing business.
