ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2013 OTHER INFORMATION Registered Office Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT Registered in England, no.
4412362 Company website A full copy of this Annual Report, together with those for prior years, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 can be found on the NEXT plc website at www.
co. uk Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 Companies Act 2006, and it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Payment of dividend The recommended final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 1 August 2013 to holders of ordinary shares registered at close of business on 28 June 2013.
The ordinary shares will trade ex-dividend from 26 June 2013.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 9.30 a. m. on Thursday 16 May 2013 at the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester LE19 1SW.
The notice of the meeting on pages 96 to 101 sets out business to be transacted.
Full access is available to the venue for those with special requirements.
Proxy card Completed proxy cards should be sent to our registrars, Equiniti, and must be received by 9.30 a. m. on 14 May 2013 or 48 hours before any adjourned meeting.
As an alternative to completing and returning this form of proxy, you may submit your proxy electronically by accessing the Registrars website www.
You will be asked to enter your unique Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number as printed on your form of proxy.
The use by members of the electronic proxy appointment service will be governed by the terms and conditions of use which appear on the website.
Electronic proxies must be completed and lodged in accordance with the instructions on the website by no later than 48 hours before the Annual General Meeting.
A member must inform the Registrar in writing of any termination of the authority of a proxy.
Share price data Stock Exchange Code: NXT.
L 2013 2012 Share price at financial year end 40.59 26.39 Market capitalisation 6,544m 4,453m Share price movement during year: High mid-market quotation 40.59 28.10 Low mid-market quotation 26.19 18.68 Registrars and transfer office Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Telephone 0871 384 2164.
Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
102 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2013 Discount voucher The Company offers a discount voucher to any first named, registered shareholder holding 500 or more ordinary shares as at 1 April each year.
The voucher entitles the recipient or their immediate family to a 25% discount against most purchases at any one time of full price merchandise in NEXT Retail stores.
It cannot be used in conjunction with any other discount voucher or offer, nor can it be used for the purchase of gift cards, Sale merchandise, electrical goods, non-NEXT branded goods or at any branch of NEXT Clearance or purchases from NEXT Directory.
The voucher has no monetary purchase limit and expires on 31 October of the same year.
Shareholders holding shares in nominee or PEP ISA accounts are also eligible, but must request the voucher through their nominee or PEP ISA account manager who should email alyson wenlock@next.
Shareholder enquiries The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti.
Please contact them if you have any enquiries about your NEXT plc shareholding including the following matters: change of name and address loss of share certificate, dividend warrant or tax voucher if you receive duplicate sets of company mailings as a result of an inconsistency in name or address and wish, if appropriate, to combine accounts.
The Shareview Portfolio service from our registrar, Equiniti, gives you more online information about your NEXT plc shares and other investments.
For direct access to information held for you on the share register, including recent balance movements and a daily valuation of investments held in your portfolio, visit www.
For shareholders with disabilities, Equiniti provides the following: if requested future communications produced by them will be sent in the appropriate format.
textphone number 0871 384 2255 for shareholders with hearing difficulties.
hearing loop facilities in their buildings for use by visiting shareholders.
CREST The Companys ordinary shares are available for electronic settlement.
Payments of dividends to mandated accounts Shareholders who do not at present have their dividends paid directly into a bank or building society may wish to do so.
A mandate form is attached to your dividend warrant and tax voucher or is available to download from the NEXT plc website on www.
co. uk or from Equiniti, telephone 0871 384 2164.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS This Report and Accounts contains forward looking statements which are all matters that are not historical facts, including anticipated financial and operational performance, business prospects and similar matters.
These forward looking statements are identifiable by words such as aim, anticipate, believe, budget, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, plan, project and similar expressions.
These forward looking statements reflect NEXTs current expectations concerning future events and actual results may differ materially from current expectations or historical results.
Any such forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those risks described in Risks & Uncertainties on pages 17 to 19: failure by NEXT to predict accurately customer fashion preferences: decline in the demand for merchandise offered by NEXT: competitive influences: changes in level of store traffic or consumer spending habits: effectiveness of NEXTs brand awareness and marketing programmes: general economic conditions or a downturn in the retail industry: the inability of NEXT to successfully implement relocation or expansion of existing stores: insufficient consumer interest in NEXT Directory: acts of war or terrorism worldwide: work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes: and changes in financial or equity markets.
These forward looking statements do not amount to any representation that they will be achieved as they involve risks and uncertainties and relate to events and depend upon circumstances which may or may not occur in the future and there can be no guarantee of future performance.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward looking statements which speak only as of the date of this document.
NEXT does not undertake any obligation to update publicly or revise forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.
This report has been printed on recycled paper.
103 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2013 104 a You may, if you wish, delete the words Chairman of the meeting and insert Proxy and Admission Card for the Annual General the name of a proxy of your choice in the box, who need not be a member.
Meeting on Thursday 16 May 2013 Please initial that alteration.
b To appoint more than one proxy, additional proxy forms may be obtained 1 by contacting our registrar, Equiniti Limited, on 0871 384 2164 overseas shareholders should call 44 0 121 415 7047 or you may copy this form.
Please indicate in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which the proxy is authorised to act as your proxy.
Please also indicate, by ticking the box provided, if the proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments made.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope to the address on the reverse of this card.
c The form of proxy, and, if relevant, the power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed, or a certified copy of that power or authority, must be received by our registrar, Equiniti Limited, not later than 48 hours before the Annual General Meeting.
d If the member is a corporation, the form of proxy must be executed either under seal or in any other manner having the same effect or under the hand of an officer or the person duly authorised in writing stating their capacity e. g. director, secretary, duly authorised attorney.
e For joint holders, the signature of any one of them will suffice.
The instructions of the senior joint holder will be accepted to the exclusion of those of the If you will be attending the Annual General Meeting to be held at the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority will be determined by the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester, LE19 1SW order in which the names stand in the register of members for the joint at 9.30 a. m. please bring this card with you.
f The address shown opposite is that appearing in the register of members These notes relate to the methods of appointing proxies for the Annual General and form of proxy and attendance card are not transferable.
To be entitled to vote at the meeting and for the purpose of determining the 1.
If you wish to register your proxy appointment electronically through the internet, number of votes that may be cast, shareholders names must be entered in the please use www.
co. uk, where full details of the procedure are given.
register of members at 6.00 p. m. on 14 May 2013.
You will have to enter the Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number shown on this form.
Full details of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting, with explanatory notes, are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
CREST members should please refer to the notice of meeting for instructions regarding CREST electronic proxy appointment services.
A map for your guidance is on the reverse of this card.
If you wish to register your proxy appointment in paper form, please comply with 1 the following notes: Calls to the number above are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines are open 8.30 a. m. to 5.30 p. m. Monday to Friday.
PLEASE TEAR OFF AND RETURN .
indd 1 04 04 2013 10:49:46 22192-05 01 03 20013 Proof 2 0164-079-S Proxy for the Annual General Meeting 2013 Voting ID Task ID Shareholder Reference Number You may submit your proxy electronically at www.
co. uk using the above numbers I We appoint the Chairman of the meeting or the following person see note 3 a as my our proxy to exercise all or any of my our rights to attend, speak and vote in respect of my our voting entitlement on my our behalf at the Annual General Meeting of Next plc to be held at the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester, LE19 1SW on Thursday 16 May 2013 at 9.30 a. m. and at any adjournment.
This form of proxy relates to the resolutions listed below and any other business transacted at the meeting or any adjournment.
I We wish my our proxy to vote on the resolutions proposed at the meeting as instructed on this form.
The proxy will vote, or abstain from voting, at his or her discretion on any resolution listed below if no instruction is given regarding that resolution and on any other business transacted at the meeting or any adjournment.
Please tick here if this proxy appointment is one of The vote withheld option is provided to enable you to instruct the proxy multiple proxy appointments being made.
For the not to vote on any particular resolution.
A vote withheld is not a vote appointment of more than one proxy, please refer to and will not, therefore, be counted in the calculation of the proportion note 3 b on the attached form.
of votes for and against a resolution.
Please indicate your instructions by marking the For, Against or Vote withheld boxes in black ink like this Vote Ordinary Resolutions For Against withheld 1.
To receive and adopt the accounts and reports 2.
To approve the remuneration report 3.
To declare a final dividend of 74p per share 4.
To re-elect John Barton as a director 5.
To re-elect Christos Angelides as a director 6.
To re-elect Steve Barber as a director 7.
To re-elect Christine Cross as a director 8.
To re-elect Jonathan Dawson as a director 9.
To re-elect David Keens as a director 10.
To elect Caroline Goodall as a director 11.
To re-elect Francis Salway as a director 12.
To re-elect Andrew Varley as a director 13.
To re-elect Simon Wolfson as a director 14.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorise the directors to set their remuneration 15.
Directors authority to allot shares Special Resolutions 16.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights 17.
Authority for on-market purchase of own shares 18.
Authority for off-market purchase of own shares 19.
Notice period for general meetings Signature Date Marriott Hotel Directions From the West At the end of the M69, go straight over at the roundabout following directions to Leicester.
Take the slip road for the A563 signposted Leicester and Space Centre.
At the roundabout take first left and head east on the A563 marked Leicester.
Get into right outside lane and at second slip road turn right, signposted Business Park.
50 yards take last exit and hotel is situated at the end of this road.
From the South or North Exit M1 at Junction 21, follow directions for Leicester.
Business Reply Plus Licence Number RTAT-GULY-LJBJ Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road LANCING BN99 8GX .
