ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2013 Environment NEXT recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the impact of its business on the environment both now and in the future.
For a number of years we have measured and reported against environmental targets for NEXT in the UK and Eire.
The targets are measured from 2007 and look forward to 2015.
Key areas of focus are: Energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices 2 Target: Electricity consumption 35% reduction in kg CO e m 2 Progress: 4% reduction compared with last year, and 30% electricity reduction achieved to date Fuel emissions from the transportation of products 2 Target: Retail Distribution 10% reduction in litres of fuel used m Progress: 8% reduction compared with last year, and 16% reduction achieved to date Waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices Target: To send less than 5% of operational waste to landfill Progress: 86% of operational waste diverted from landfill achieved to date, in line with last year NEXT is committed to reducing its carbon footprint by reducing energy consumption throughout its operations, minimising and recycling waste, cutting transport emissions and reducing the packaging in our products.
Community NEXT supports a wide range of charities and organisations, and provided the following financial support during the year: 2013 2012 000 000 Registered charities 911 876 Individual requests, local and national groups and organisations 110 75 Commercial support 83 73 This support was supplemented by the following additional activities: 2013 2012 000 000 NEXT charity events 182 Gifts in kind - product donations 2,187 1,652 Charity linked sales 357 425 Employee fundraising 22 44 No donations were made for political purposes 2012: nil.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING & OTHER MATTERS Notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM is on pages 96 to 101 and includes the following business: Dividends The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 74p per share be paid on 1 August 2013 to shareholders on the register of members at close of business on 28 June 2013.
The Trustee of the NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT has waived dividends paid in the year on the shares held by it, see Note 26.
Directors Caroline Goodall was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 January 2013.
Caroline has 30 years experience in the legal profession, with 20 years as a corporate finance partner at Herbert Smith.
Carolines appointment ensures an appropriate balance of skills, experience and independence is maintained.
21 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REVIEW The UK Corporate Governance Code provides for all directors of FTSE companies to stand for election every year, and all members of the Board will do so at this years AGM.
Their biographical details are set out on page 27.
The Board has formally reviewed the performance of all non-executive directors and concluded that they remain independent, effective and are committed to their roles at NEXT.
In addition, the Board specifically considered the independence of Jonathan Dawson and Christine Cross, who were first appointed to the Board 9 years and 8 years ago respectively, and concluded that they remain independent in both character and judgement, and their knowledge and other business interests continue to enable them to contribute significantly to the work and balance of the Board.
The interests of the directors who held office at 26 January 2013 and their families are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 and 50 to 52.
Auditor Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office and their reappointment will be proposed at the AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditor In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Authority to allot shares Ordinary resolution 15 will, if passed, renew the directors authority pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares until the conclusion of the AGM in 2014 or, if earlier, 1 August 2014.
This resolution will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 5,300,000, representing approximately one third 33.33% of the Companys existing issued share capital as at 19 March 2013.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines, resolution 15 will also allow directors to allot further ordinary shares, in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue, up to a total maximum nominal amount of 10,600,000, representing approximately two thirds 66.67% of the Companys existing issued share capital as at that date.
As at 19 March 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document the Companys issued share capital amounted to 16,123,424, comprising 161,234,237 ordinary shares of 10 pence each, none of which are held in treasury.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Special resolution 16 will, if passed, renew the directors authority pursuant to sections 570 to 573 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
This resolution limits the aggregate nominal value of ordinary shares which may be issued by the directors on a non pre-emptive basis to 806,000, being less than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 19 March 2013.
This authority also allows the directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash, shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
The directors do not have any present intention of exercising this authority which will expire at the AGM in 2014 or, if earlier, 1 August 2014.
The directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company for cash under this or previous authorities in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with shareholders and the Investment Committees of certain shareholder representative organisations.
On-market purchase of own shares NEXT has been returning capital to its shareholders by share repurchases as well as dividend since March 2000 as part of its strategy for delivering sustainable long term growth in earnings per share.
Over this period, and up to 19 March 2013, NEXT has returned over 2.8bn to shareholders by way of share buybacks and almost 1.4bn in dividends.
This buyback activity has enhanced earnings per share, given shareholders the opportunity for capital 22 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2013 as well as revenue returns and has been transparent to the financial markets.
Share buybacks have not been made at the expense of investment in the business.
Over the last five years, NEXT has invested over 570m in capital expenditure to support and grow the business.
Special resolution 17 will renew the authority for the Company to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: a the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased shall be the lesser of 24,169,000 ordinary shares of 10p each being less than 15% of the issued share capital at 19 March 2013 and no more than 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the AGM, such limits to be reduced by the number of any shares to be purchased pursuant to special resolution 18: Off-market purchases of own shares, see below: b the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and not more than 105% of the average of the middle market price according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase or, if higher, the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buyback and Stabilisation Regulation 2003: and c the renewed authority will expire at the AGM in 2014 or, if earlier, 1 August 2014.
The directors intend that this authority to purchase the Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result in an increase in earnings per share and, being in the interests of shareholders generally, it is considered to promote the success of the Company.
The directors will also give careful consideration to financial gearing levels of the Company and its general financial position.
The purchase price would be paid out of distributable profits.
It is the directors present intention to cancel any shares purchased under this authority.
The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp duty liability of the Company at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration paid.
The total number of employee share options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 19 March 2013 was 8,468,294.
This represents 5.3% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to both the existing authority granted at the 2012 AGM which will expire at the 2013 AGM and the authority sought by this resolution, then the total number of options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 19 March 2013 would represent 7.2% of the reduced issued share capital.
Off-market purchases of own shares The directors consider that share buybacks are an important means of returning value to shareholders and maximising sustainable long term growth in EPS.
Contingent contracts for off-market share purchases are an integral part of the Companys buyback strategy and offer a number of additional benefits compared to onmarket share purchases: Contingent contracts allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
Pursuant to the authority granted at the 2012 AGM, and up to 19 March 2013, the Company bought back 650,190 shares for cancellation under such contracts at discounts of up to 6.4%.
Low share liquidity can often prevent the Company from purchasing sufficient numbers of shares on a single day without risk of affecting the prevailing market price.
Contingent contracts enable the Company to purchase shares over time without risk of distorting the prevailing share price, and also spreads the cash outflow.
Contingent contracts entered into prior to any close period allow the Company to purchase shares off-market during these periods.
Clearance from the FSA for use of contingent contracts, including for settlement in close periods, has been obtained.
Competitive tendering involving up to five banks is used which minimises the risk of hidden purchase costs.
The pricing mechanism ensures the Company retains the benefit of declared and forecast dividends.
As with any share buyback decision, the directors would use this authority only after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities and the overall financial position of the Company.
The directors will only purchase shares using such contracts if, based on the contract 23 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT AND BUSINESS REVIEW discounted price rather than any future price, it is earnings enhancing and promotes the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders generally.
Special resolution 18 will give the Company authority to enter into contingent purchase contracts with any of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc and Barclays Bank plc under which shares may be purchased off-market at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
The maximum which the Company would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would be the lower of 5,000,000 shares or a total cost of 200 million.
The principal features of the contracts are set out in Appendix 1 to the Notice of the AGM.
Copies of the agreements the Company proposes to enter into with any of the banks the Programme Agreements will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, and at the offices of Pinsent Masons, 30 Crown Place, Earl Street, London EC2A 4ES during normal working hours from the date of the Notice of the AGM up to the date of the AGM and at the Meeting itself.
Notice of General Meetings The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 for general meetings of the Company is 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
However, the Companys AGM must always be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
At the AGM of the Company held in 2012, shareholders authorised the calling of general meetings other than an AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice and it is proposed that this authority be renewed.
The authority granted by special resolution 19, if passed, will be effective until the Companys AGM in 2014.
In order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company will make electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
The flexibility offered by this resolution will not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the directors consider it appropriate, taking account of the business to be considered at the meeting and the interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation Your directors are of the opinion that all resolutions which are to be proposed at the 2013 AGM will promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of its shareholders as a whole and, accordingly, unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions.
Share capital and major shareholders Details of the Companys share capital are shown in Note 23 to the financial statements.
The Company was authorised by its shareholders at the 2012 AGM to purchase its own shares.
During the year the Company purchased 7,509,924 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 750,992 of which 1,825,190 were purchased off-market, at a cost of 241.3m, representing 4.5% of its issued share capital at the start of the year.
On 26 January 2013 the Company had 161,234,237 shares in issue, which remained the same as at 19 March 2013.
The following information has been received from holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital: Notifications received up to Notifications received after 26 January 2013 26 January 2013 up to 19 March 2013 No.
of % of voting voting Nature voting voting Nature rights rights of holding rights rights of holding FMR LLC Fidelity 23,068,634 14.14 Indirect interest BlackRock, Inc. 22,892,356 13.98 Indirect 20,918,483 12.97 Indirect interest interest Schroders plc 8,817,239 4.79 Indirect interest NEXT plc Employee Share Option Trust 6,881,904 4.21 Direct interest at date of notification 24 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS JANUARY 2013 Additional information Shareholder and voting rights All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held or represented.
It is intended that voting at the 2013 AGM will be on a poll.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 96 to 101 specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods and requirements of the Listing Rules whereby directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
The Companys articles of association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting.
Directors are elected or re-elected by ordinary resolution at a general meeting: the Board may appoint a director but anyone so appointed must be elected by ordinary resolution at the next general meeting.
Directors retire and may offer themselves for re-election at a general meeting at least every three years.
However, in line with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will stand for election at the 2013 AGM.
Change of control The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate solely upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
However, in the event of a change of control, the Companys medium term borrowing facilities may be subject to early repayment if a majority of the lending banks give written notice to the Company within 30 days of the change of control.
In addition, should a change of control cause a downgrading in the credit rating of the Companys 2013, 2016 and 2021 corporate bonds to sub-investment grade which is not rectified within 120 days after the change in control, holders of the bonds have the option to call for redemption of the bonds by the Company at their nominal value together with accrued interest.
This option is only applicable to a downgrade which occurs as a direct consequence of a change in control.
The Companys share option plans, and its long term incentive and share matching plans, contain provisions regarding a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards may vest on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any relevant performance conditions.
Directors service contracts are terminable by the Company on giving one years notice.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for additional compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Corporate governance The corporate governance statement as required by the UK Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
6 comprises the Additional Information section of the Directors Report and the Corporate Governance statement included in this Annual Report.
By order of the Board Andrew McKinlay Secretary 21 March 2013 25 Additional information Parent Company accounts Consolidated accounts Governance Business reports
