NMC Health plc Consolidated financial statements Year ended 31 December 2013 99 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NMC HEALTH PLC We have audited the group financial statements of NMC Health plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statement of cash flows and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 54 to 55, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that have had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team: The valuation of trade receivables Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition and the determination of whether the Group is acting in the capacity of an agent rather than principal: and The capitalisation of costs into capital work in progress.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement, we define materiality as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the 100 aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
We also determine a level of performance materiality which we use to determine the extent of testing needed to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality for the financial statements as a whole.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined a magnitude of uncorrected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the Group to be $3.60 million 2012: $2.48 million, which is approximately 5% 2012: 4% of adjusted profit before tax.
We used adjusted profit before tax to exclude the non-recurring write-off of unamortised finance fees resulting from the refinance of loan facilities in the year.
This provided a basis for determining the nature, timing and extent of risk assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality ie: our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the Group should be 50% 2012: 50% of materiality, namely $1.80 million 2012: $1.24 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total detected and undetected audit differences in all accounts did not exceed our materiality level.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Audit Committee all audit differences in excess of $0.16 million 2012: $0.12 million.
We also agreed to report differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit Following our assessment of the risk of material misstatement to the Group financial statements we selected eight components which account for 95% of the groups profit before tax and 97% of the groups total assets.
Six of these components were subject to a full audit, whilst one component was subject to a partial audit where the extent of audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and one component was subject to analytical review procedures.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
The audit work at the eight components and the statutory audits were executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were much lower than Group materiality.
Given that the Group operates solely in the United Arab Emirates the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the United Arab Emirates three times during the current year audit process.
The Group audit team interacts regularly with the component team in the United Arab Emirates where appropriate during the various stages of the audit, reviewed key working papers and were responsible for the scope and direction of the audit process.
Our response to the risks identified above was as follows: Valuation of trade receivables We challenged management on the significant estimation and subjectivity involved in the appropriateness of provisions for bad debts which included obtaining evidence to support the recoverability of the older un-provided debts.
We obtained direct external confirmations for a sample of customer receivable balances and we vouched post year end cash receipts for a sample of year-end trade receivable balances.
Revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition and the determination of whether the Group is acting in the capacity of an agent rather than principal 101 We relied upon testing relating to controls over revenue recognition, including the timing of revenue recognition.
We performed analytical procedures and cut-off testing procedures to check that revenue had been recognised in the appropriate accounting period.
We tested a sample of new revenue agreements entered into during the year.
We checked the Groups adherence to their revenue recognition policies, including their determination of whether the Group is acting as an agent rather than as a principal, to agree that these policies are in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Capitalisation of costs into capital work in progress We vouched the majority of additions to capital work in progress in the year to supporting documentation to check that the costs met the criteria for capitalisation into work in progress.
We also held discussions with the project managers on major capital projects.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the ISAs UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, set out on page 54, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of NMC Health plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Cameron Cartmell Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 24 February 2014 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the NMC Health plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
There are no discontinued operations in the current and prior year.
The attached notes 1 to 34 form part of the consolidated financial statements.
106 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION NMC Health plc the Company or Parent is a Company which was incorporated in England and Wales on 20 July 2011.
The Company is a public limited company operating solely in the United Arab Emirates UAE.
The address of the registered office of the Company is Suite 23 Hanover Square London, W1S 1JB.
The registered number of the Company is 7712220.
There is no ultimate controlling party.
The Company completed its Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange on 5 April 2012.
The Parent and its subsidiaries collectively the Group are engaged in providing professional medical services, wholesale of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics, food and IT products and services in the United Arab Emirates.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 24 February 2014 and the consolidated statement of financial position was signed on the Boards behalf by Dr B. R. Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti.
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all periods presented.
Functional and reporting currency The functional currency of the Company and its subsidiaries is UAE Dirham.
The reporting currency of the Group is United States of America Dollar US$ as this is a more globally recognised currency.
The UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar at a rate of 3.673 per US Dollar.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand dollars $000 except when otherwise indicated.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Review on pages 8 to 43.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 27 to 30.
The directors have undertaken an assessment of the future prospects of the Group and the wider risks that the Group is exposed to.
In its assessment of whether the Group should adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements, the directors have considered the adequacy of financial resources in order to manage its business risks successfully, together with other areas of potential risk such as regulatory, insurance and legal risks.
107 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION continued The Group has banking arrangements through a spread of local and international banking groups and utilizes short and medium term working capital facilities to optimise business funding.
Debt covenants are reviewed by the board each month.
The Board believes that the level of cash in the Group, the spread of bankers and debt facilities mitigates the financing risks that the Group faces from both its capital expenditure program and in relation to working capital requirements.
Both the Healthcare and Distribution divisions have continued their positive growth trends and all major financial and non-financial KPIs showed good improvement during 2013.
The directors have reviewed the business plan for 2014 and the five year cash flow, together with growth forecasts for the healthcare sector in UAE.
The directors consider the Groups future forecasts to be reasonable.
The directors have not identified any other matters that may impact the viability of the Group in the medium term and therefore they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Comparative information Reclassifications The Group has made following reclassifications in respect of the comparatives to conform to the current period presentation.
These reclassifications are made to correct the presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
Amounts of US$ 1,746,000 as of 31 December 2012 and US$ 1,161,000 as of 31 December 2011 in respect of employees end of service benefits have been reclassified from non-current liabilities to current liabilities note 26.
An amount of U$ 3,402,000 in respect of flotation costs has been reclassified from financing activities to operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
These reclassifications have no impact on previously reported equity or profit of the Group.
2.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases.
The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the Parent, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances, transactions, unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-group transactions and dividends are eliminated in full.
Total comprehensive income within a subsidiary is attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets not held by the Group and are presented separately in the statement of comprehensive income and within equity in the consolidated statement of financial position, separately from shareholders equity.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair value of consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
108 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION continued The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its principal subsidiaries listed below: Percentage of holdings 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Direct subsidiaries: NMC Holding Co LLC 100% 100% NMC Health Holdco Limited 100% 100% Indirect subsidiaries: NMC Healthcare LLC 100% 100% New Pharmacy Company Limited 99% 99% New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai 99% 99% NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Abu Dhabi 99% 99% 99% NMC Specialty Hospital LLCDubai 99% New Medical Centre Trading LLC 99% 99% Bait Al Shifaa Pharmacy LLC-Dubai 99% 99% 99% New Medical Centre LLC-Sharjah 99% New Medical Centre Specialty Hospital LLC-Al Ain 99% 99% Reliance Information Technology LLC 99% 99% 100% BR Medical Suites FZ LLC 100% Brightpoint Hospital LLC 99% 99% NMC Day Surgery Centre LLC 99% 99% NMC Dubai Investment Park LLC 99% 99% All the above subsidiaries are incorporated in the UAE except for NMC Health Holdco Limited, which is incorporated in England and Wales.
2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The key assumptions concerning the future, key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements at the reporting date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Significant estimates Impairment of inventories Inventories are held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
When inventories become old or obsolete, an estimate is made of their net realisable value.
For individually significant amounts this estimation is performed on an individual basis.
Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are old or obsolete, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the inventory type and the Groups policy for inventory provisioning.
The gross carrying amount of inventories at 31 December 2013 was US$ 94,839,000 2012: US$ 72,574,000 and the provision for old and obsolete items at 31 December 2013 was US$ 716,000 2012: US$ 116,000.
Impairment of accounts receivable An estimate of the collectible amount of trade accounts receivable is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
For individually significant amounts, this estimation is performed on an individual basis.
Amounts which are not individually significant, but which are past due, are assessed collectively and a provision applied according to the length of time past due, based on historical recovery rates.
109 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES continued A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired are from insurance companies and government-linked entities in the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures.
Payments continue to be received from these customers and accordingly the risk of non-recoverability is considered to be low.
Any difference between the amounts actually collected in future periods and the amounts expected will be recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Significant judgements Functional currency The UAE Dirham is determined to be the functional currency of the Company.
Judgement has been used to determine the functional currency of the Company that most appropriately represents the economic effects of the Companys transactions, events and conditions.
The primary economic environment influencing the Companys income dividends is the UAE and the effect of the local environment is limited to expenses incurred within the UK.
The ability of the Company to meet its obligations and pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent on the economy of, and the operation of its subsidiaries in, the UAE.
Refinancing of JP Morgan loan Judgement has been used to determine that the terms and conditions of the new JP Morgan syndicated loan are substantially different from the previous loan and accordingly the previous JP Morgan syndicated loan has been derecognised note 25.
Management used the following basis for determining that the terms and conditions are substantially different: The principal amount of the loan changed from US$ 150 million to US$ 225 million The interest risk profile on the loan changed as the interest rate decreased from 3.5% plus margin to 3% plus margin.
The securities and guarantees of the loan changed as the personal guarantees of shareholders have been removed in the new loan.
The loan covenants changed: and The repayment terms changed as the new loan had an initial repayment grace period of six months.
Assets held in the name of the previous shareholder In accordance with local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held in the name of a UAE national.
As a result, land and buildings of the Group are legally registered in the name of shareholders or previous shareholders of the Group.
As at 31 December 2013 certain land and buildings with a carrying amount of US$ 9,648,000 2012: US$ 9,974,000 are held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group.
As the beneficial interest of such land and buildings resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land and buildings in the Group consolidated financial statements.
The directors take into account this local legal registration requirement, the Group's entitlement to the beneficial interest arising from these assets, as well as other general business factors, when considering whether such assets are impaired.
Leases for buildings and land Generally our hospitals, day patient medical centres and hospital projects under development are located on land and in buildings which are leased.
As at 31 December 2013, the majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty years apart from the leases for New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital the land on which the Khalifa City Specialty Hospital is being constructed and the warehouse facilities, which had leases which are renewable on an annual basis with a total value of US$ 110 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.3 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES continued Leases for buildings and land continued 50,244,600 included within Property, Plant and Equipment as at 31 December 2103.
Of this US$ 49,696,000 pertains to Khalifa City Specialty Hospital.
If any such leases are terminated or expire and are not renewed, the Group could lose the investment, including the hospital buildings and the warehouses on the leased sites which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The directors have considered the following facts in determining the likelihood that these leases will be renewed: Whilst some leases can be for long term durations, it is not unusual and can often be common practice throughout all of the emirates in the United Arab Emirates for landlords to lease land and buildings to companies on annually renewable leases of one year terms and for these leases to be renewed automatically.
Throughout the Groups 40 year history it has never had a lease cancelled or not renewed, and the Group enjoys a high degree of respect in the region and believes that it maintains strong relationships with the landlords.
Both the Dubai General Hospital and the warehouse facilities have been occupied by the Group on annually renewable leases, for a period of more than 13 years and each year these leases have been automatically renewed.
The warehouse facilities have been built by the company on land leased from government bodies in the Emirates of Dubai and Abu Dhabi on the back of the policies of these governments to attract investment in warehousing in the United Arab Emirates.
At 31 December 2013 the land on which the Khalifa City Specialty Hospital is being constructed is being leased to NMC from the Municipality of Abu Dhabi and was on a one year annually renewable basis.
Subsequent to year end, the lease has been renewed and extended so that it is now a 27 year lease expiring in the year 2040.
The total carrying amounts included within Property Plant and Equipment in respect of Khalifa City Specialty Hospital as at 31 December 2013 is US$ 49,696,000.
2.4 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES Changes in accounting policies: The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for employees end of service benefits as discussed below: Employees end of service benefits: The Group has reassessed its accounting policy with respect to employees end of service benefits.
In previous years the Group was treating these as other long term benefits and has now assessed these to be treated as post-employment benefits.
This change in accounting treatment did not materially impact the previously reported profit or equity of the group as the actuarial gain loss as a result of the actuarial valuation is not material to the Group.
New and amended standards and interpretations: The Group applies IFRS as adopted in the European Union, the European Union endorsement states that IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 must be applied at the latest with an effective date of 1 January 2014 although earlier adoption is permitted.
Accordingly, the Group has early adopted IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 with effect from 1 January 2013.
The amendments to IFRS, which are effective as of 1 January 2013 and are described in more detail below, have no impact on the Group.
111 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.4 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The following amendments to IFRS are effective as of 1 January 2013: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
IFRS 10 replaces the parts of previously existing IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that dealt with consolidated financial statements and SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 changes the definition of control such that an investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
IFRS 10 had no impact on the consolidation of investments held by the Group IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities Nonmonetary Contributions by Ventures.
IFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
Instead, JCEs that meet the definition of a joint venture under IFRS 11 must be accounted for using the equity method.
IFRS 11 had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Group as it does not have any JCEs.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 12 sets out the requirements for disclosures relating to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
The requirements in IFRS 12 are more comprehensive than the previously existing disclosure requirements for subsidiaries.
For example, when a subsidiary is controlled with less than the majority of voting rights.
None of these disclosure requirements are applicable for consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the Group has not made such disclosures.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
The application of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted the fair value measurements carried out by the Group.
IAS 1 Financial Statements Presentation - Presentation of items of Other Comprehensive IncomeAmendments to IAS 1 The amendments to IAS 1 introduce a grouping of items presented in Other Comprehensive Income.
Items that will be reclassified recycled to profit or loss at a future point in time e. g. Net loss or gain on available for sale financial assets have to be presented separately from items that will not be reclassified e. g. revaluation of land and buildings.
The amendments affect presentation only and have no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IAS 1 Clarification of the requirement for comparative information Amendment The amendments specify that a third statement of financial position is required when a an entity applies an accounting policy retrospectively, or makes a retrospective restatement or reclassification of items in its financial statements, and b the retrospective application, restatement or reclassification has a material effect on the information in the third statement of financial position.
The amendments specify that related notes are not required to accompany the third statement of financial position.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 2011 IAS 19 revised 2011 changes the accounting for defined benefit plans and termination benefits.
The most significant change relates to the accounting for changes in defined benefits obligation and plan assets.
The amendments require the recognition of changes in defined benefit obligation and in the fair value of the plan assets when they occur, and hence eliminate the corridor approach permitted under the previous version of IAS 19 and accelerate the recognition of past service costs.
All actuarial gain and losses are recognized immediately through other comprehensive income in order for the net provision asset or liability recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position to reflect the full value of the 112 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.4 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued plan deficit or surplus.
Furthermore, the interest cost and the expected return on plan assets used in the previous version of IAS 19 are replaced with a net interest amount under IAS19 as revised in 2011, which is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
These changes have no material impact on the amounts recognised in the prior years.
2.5 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being made.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, less discounts and rebates and talking into account contractually defined terms of payment and excluding taxes or duties.
Revenue streams include clinic service revenues, sale of goods - Pharmacy, sale of goods Distribution, Healthcare management fees and revenue from BR Medical Suites.
The Group assesses its revenue arrangements against specific criteria in order to determine if it is acting as principal or agent.
The Group determines it is acting as principal when it has exposure to the significant risks and rewards associated with the transaction and measures revenue as the gross amount received or receivable.
When the Group does not retain the significant risks and rewards, it deems that it is acting as an agent and measures revenue as the amount received or receivable in return for its performance under the contract and excludes any amounts collected on behalf of a third party.
Clinic service revenues: Clinic service revenues represent the revenue which NMC generates from the provision of either inpatient or outpatient medical services.
The group primarily receives clinic service revenues from patients private medical insurance schemes.
Clinic revenues are recognised when, and to the extent that, performance of a medical service occurs, and is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in these arrangements as it has the responsibility for providing the medical services to the patient, it sets the prices for the clinic services which are provided, it bears the credit risk and it bears the risk of providing the medical service.
Sale of Goods - Pharmacy: The sales of goods from pharmacy relates to the sale of pharmaceutical and other products from hospitals and pharmacies.
Whilst the Group does not establish the prices for the pharmaceutical products sold as both the purchase and selling prices for all pharmaceutical products are fixed by the Ministry of Health, NMC has determined that it is acting as Principal in respect of these sales as it provides the goods for sale, it bears the inventory risk, and it bears the credit risk from customers.
Revenue from the sale of goods Pharmacy is therefore recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer.
Significant risk for retail goods is passed to the buyer at the point of sale.
Sale of Goods - Distribution: Where the Group bears the inventory risk and the customer credit risk and has the ability to set the prices for the products sold then the Group has determined that it is acting as Principal.
Revenue from the sale of goods is therefore recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer.
Significant risk for retail goods is passed to the buyer for wholesale goods at the time of delivery.
For agency relationships, the revenue earned is measured as the Groups share of the revenue, as specified in the contract.
Any amounts collected on behalf of the third party are excluded from revenue and are recorded as a payable.
There are currently no material agency relationships.
113 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.5 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Healthcare Management fees: Management fees represent fees earned for managing a hospital.
Management fees are recognised when the services under the contract are performed, and the service level criteria have been met, and are measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, in line with the terms of the management contract.
Revenue from BR Medical Suites: BR Medical Suites enters into contracts with doctors whereby these doctors are employed to perform certain procedures or run outpatient services using the facilities at BR Medical Suites.
In return the doctors obtain a share of the revenues that are generated from these facilities.
Each contractual arrangement with individual doctors is assessed against specific criteria to determine whether the Group is acting as principal or agent in the arrangement with these doctors.
Other income Other income comprises revenue from suppliers for the reimbursement of advertising and promotion costs incurred by the Group.
Revenue is recognised following formal acceptance of the Group's reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
Interest income For all financial instruments measured at amortised cost, interest income or expense is recorded using the effective interest rate EIR, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or liability.
Interest income is included in finance income in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Rebate from Suppliers The Distribution business receives rebates in the ordinary course of business from a number of its suppliers of pharmaceutical products, in accordance with contractual arrangements in place with specific suppliers.
Rebates are accounted for once approval has been received from the supplier following the negotiations which have taken place with them.
Rebates receivable are accounted for as a deduction from the cost of purchasing pharmaceutical goods, once the rebate has been approved by the supplier on the basis under IAS 18 that the probability of inflow is not sufficiently certain and the amounts cannot be reliably measured until that point.
When rebates have been agreed in advance, for example when it has been agreed that a certain rebate will be applied to the purchase of specific goods for a set period of time rather than just to a specific one off purchase, then the rebate is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price as soon as the goods are purchased.
When rebates are offered based upon the volume purchased and it is probable that the rebate will be earned and the amount can be estimated reliably, then the discount is recognised as a reduction in the purchase price when the goods are purchased and the assessment is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Rebates receivable are accounted for on a net basis, being set off against the trade payables to which they relate, as they are a reduction in the amount we owe to our suppliers in respect of pharmaceutical products purchased.
Business combinations and goodwill The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
114 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.5 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquire are assigned to those units.
Where goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the disposed operation is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill disposed in these circumstances is measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Business combinations involving entities under common control Business combinations involving entities under common control do not fall under the scope of IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations.
The transfer of companies under common control is therefore accounted for using the pooling of interests method.
Under this method there is no requirement to fair value the assets and liabilities of the transferred entities and hence no goodwill is created upon transfer of ownership as the balances remain at book value.
The consolidated income statement, consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated statement of cash flows comparative figures are also presented as if the Company had been the parent undertaking of the Group throughout the current and previous year.
The consolidated financial statements are therefore presented as though the Group had always existed in its current form.
Restructuring reserve The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests method used for the group restructuring which took place on 1 April 2012.
This represents the difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC, the previous parent company of the Group, and the carrying amount of the investment in that company at the date of the restructure.
Property and equipment Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on all property and equipment other than land and capital work in progress, at the following rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life: Hospital building 6% Buildings 6% Leasehold improvements 20% Motor vehicles 20% Furniture, fixtures and fittings 12.5% - 20% Medical equipment 10% - 25% 115 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.5 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued The carrying amounts of property and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount, being the higher of their fair value less cost to sell and their value in use.
Capital work in progress is stated at cost and is not depreciated.
Lease costs in respect of capital work in progress are capitalised within capital work in progress during the period up until it is commissioned.
When commissioned, capital work in progress is transferred to the appropriate property and equipment asset category and depreciated in accordance with the Groups policies.
The carrying amounts of capital work in progress are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised and the carrying amount of the component that is replaced is written off.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases future economic benefits of the related item of property and equipment.
All other expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as the expense is incurred.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of an asset are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset until the asset is commissioned for use.
Borrowing costs in respect of completed assets or not attributable to assets are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
Pre-operating expenses Pre-operating expenses are the expenses incurred prior to start of operations of a new business unit.
These are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they occur.
Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving items.
Costs are those expenses incurred in bringing each product to its present location and condition and are determined on a weighted average basis.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to disposal.
Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are stated at original invoice amount less a provision for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate of doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when there is no possibility of recovery.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash in hand, bank balances and short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Equity The Group has issued ordinary shares that are classified as equity.
The difference between the issue price and the par value of ordinary share capital is allocated to share premium.
The transaction costs incurred for the share issue are accounted for as a deduction from share premium, net of any related income tax benefit, to the extent they are incremental costs directly attributable to the share issue that would otherwise have been avoided.
116 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.5 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Listing transaction costs Transaction costs of the IPO are accounted for as a deduction from equity, net of any related income tax benefit.
Transaction costs arising on the issue of equity instruments, however, do not include indirect costs, such as the costs of management time and administrative overheads, or allocations of internal costs that would have been incurred had the shares not been issued.
Marketing costs for the IPO do not meet the definition of directly attributable expenses and are therefore expensed through the statement of comprehensive income, together with the indirect costs related to the IPO.
Accounts payable and accruals Liabilities are recognised for amounts to be paid in the future for goods and services received whether billed by the supplier or not.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Accounts payable are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has an obligation legal or constructive arising from a past event, and the costs to settle the obligation are both probable and able to be reliably measured.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the obligation.
Increases in provisions due to the passage of time are recognised in the consolidated income statement within Finance costs.
Term loans Term loans are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, term loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest on term loans is charged as an expense as it accrues, with unpaid amounts included in accounts payable and accruals.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Employees end of service benefits The Group operates an un-funded post-employment benefit plan employees end of service benefits for its expatriate employees in UAE, in accordance with the labour laws of the UAE.
The entitlement to these benefits is based upon the employees final salary and length of service, subject to the completion of a minimum service period.
Payment for employees end of service benefits is made when an employee leaves, resigns or completes his service.
The cost of providing benefits under the post-employment benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit method.
Re-measurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, are recognized immediately in the statement of financial position with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Re-measurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
Interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the defined benefit liability.
The rate used to discount the end of service benefit obligation is determined by reference to market yields at the balance sheet date on high quality corporate bonds.
The current and non-current portions of the provision relating to employees end of service benefits are separately disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group recognises the following changes in the employees end of service benefits under direct costs and general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: Service costs comprising current service costs Interest expense 117 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.5 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Employees end of service benefits continued With respect to its UAE national employees, the Group makes contributions to the relevant UAE Government pension scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees salaries.
The obligations under these schemes are limited to these contributions, which are expensed when due.
With respect to its UAE national employees, the Group makes contributions to the relevant UAE Government pension scheme calculated as a percentage of the employees salaries.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in UAE Dirhams at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Translation of foreign operations On consolidation the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into US Dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date and their income statements are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Since the UAE Dirham is pegged against the US Dollar a single rate of 3.673 per US Dollar is used to translate assets and liabilities and balances in the income statement.
Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and caps to hedge its interest rate risks.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps are determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Derivatives with positive market values unrealised gains are included in other assets and derivatives with negative market values unrealised losses are included in other liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value on derivatives during the year are taken directly to profit or loss.
Whilst the policy of the group is not to apply hedge accounting, the derivatives are economic hedges of liabilities in issue and it is therefore considered appropriate to show the changes in fair value of derivatives in finance costs in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Financial instruments Financial instruments comprise cash and bank balances, receivables, payables, bank overdrafts, term loans and certain other assets and liabilities.
The fair value of these financial instruments are based on estimated fair values calculated using methods such as the quoted market prices and net present value of future cash flows.
The fair value of interest bearing items is estimated based on discounted cash flows using interest rates for items with similar terms and characteristics.
The fair value of investments traded in organised markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid prices.
Impairment of financial assets An assessment is made at each consolidated statement of financial position date to determine whether there is objective evidence that a specific financial asset may be impaired.
If such evidence exists, any impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Impairment is determined as the difference between carrying value and the present value of future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement.
Operating leases are recognised as an operating expense in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight line basis.
118 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 3 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Groups financial statements are disclosed below.
The Group intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9, as issued, reflects the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as defined in IAS 39.
The standard was initially effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013, but amendments to IFRS 9 Mandatory Effective Date of IFRS 9 and Transition disclosures, issued in December 2011, moved the mandatory effective date to 1 January 2015.
In subsequent phases, the IASB is addressing hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will not have a significant impact on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities.
Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 provide an exception to the consolidation requirement for entities that meet the definition of an investment entity under IFRS 10.
The exception to consolidation requires investment entities to account for subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss.
It is not expected that this amendment would be relevant to the Group, since none of the entities in the Group would qualify to be an investment entity under IFRS 10.
IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial  to IAS 32 These amendments clarify the meaning of currently has a legally enforceable right to set-off and the criteria for non-simultaneous settlement mechanisms of clearing houses to qualify for offsetting.
These are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
These amendments are not expected to be relevant to the Group.
IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies IFRIC 21 IFRIC 21 clarifies that an entity recognises a liability for a levy when the activity that triggers payment, as identified by the relevant legislation, occurs.
For a levy that is triggered upon reaching a minimum threshold, the interpretation clarifies that no liability should be anticipated before the specified minimum threshold is reached.
IFRIC 21 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The Group does not expect that IFRIC 21 will have any material financial impact in future financial statements.
IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge  to IAS 39 These amendments provide relief from discounting hedge accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a hedge instrument meets certain criteria.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
These amendments have no impact on the Group.
4 BUSINESS COMBINATION UNDER COMMON CONTROL On 28 March 2012 the Company became the holding company of NMC Healthcare LLC through its wholly owned subsidiaries, NMC Holding LLC and NMC Health Holdco Limited.
This transaction falls outside the scope of IFRS 3 - Business Combinations, so the pooling of interests method is applied and the consolidated financial statements of the Group are presented as a continuation of the existing group.
The following accounting treatment was applied: a the assets and liabilities of the previous parent company, NMC Healthcare LLC, were recognised and measured in the consolidated financial statements at the pre-combination carrying amounts, without restatement to fair value: and b the retained earnings and other equity balances of NMC Healthcare LLC immediately before the business combination, and the results of the period from 1 January 2012 to the date of the business combination are those of NMC Healthcare LLC as the Company did not trade prior to the transaction.
119 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 4 BUSINESS COMBINATION UNDER COMMON CONTROL continued The Company had no significant assets or liabilities immediately prior to the time of the acquisition.
As part of the acquisition, 130,000,000 new 10 pence shares were issued to the shareholders of NMC Healthcare LLC.
A group restructuring reserve of US$ 10,001,000 debit arose on consolidation being the difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC and the carrying amount of the investment in the books of the Company.
This has been classified as part of the equity within the consolidated statement of financial position note 22.
5 SEGMENT INFORMATION For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services and has two reportable segments as follows: The healthcare segment is engaged in providing professional medical services, comprising diagnostic services, in and outpatient clinics and retailing of pharmaceutical goods.
It also includes the provision of management services in respect of a hospital.
The distribution & services segment is engaged in wholesale trading of pharmaceutical goods, medical equipment, cosmetics and food.
No operating segments have been aggregated to form the above reportable operating segments.
Management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment.
Segment performance is evaluated based on profit or loss and is measured consistently with profit or loss, excluding finance income and finance costs, group administrative expenses, unallocated depreciation and unallocated other income, in the consolidated financial statements.
Group financing and investments including finance costs and finance income are managed on a group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
This also includes the flotation costs incurred in 2012.
Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
The following tables present revenue and profit and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups business segments for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012.
All other adjustments and eliminations are part of detailed reconciliations presented further below.
121 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued Adjustments and eliminations Finance income and costs, group overheads and fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments are not allocated to individual segments as the underlying instruments are managed on a group basis.
Term loans, bank overdraft and other short term borrowings and certain other assets and liabilities are substantially not allocated to segments as they are also managed on a group basis.
Capital expenditure consists of additions to property and equipment.
Reconciliation of Group profit 2012 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Segment profit 102,154 87,697 Unallocated finance income 3,814 4,325 Unallocated finance costs 14,344 13,738 Unallocated group administrative expenses 18,654 15,036 Unallocated unamortised finance fees written off 3,394 - Unallocated depreciation 451 338 Unallocated other income 18 258 Unallocated flotation costs - 3,402 ----------------------- ----------------------- Group profit 69,143 59,766 Reconciliation of Group assets 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Segment assets 528,748 439,686 12,365 Unallocated property and equipment 12,229 Unallocated inventory 36 33 Unallocated accounts receivable and prepayments 5,526 6,497 Unallocated amounts due from related parties 267 58 Unallocated bank balances and cash 74,954 23,374 Unallocated bank deposits 193,366 233,703 ----------------------- ----------------------- Group assets 815,262 715,580 Reconciliation of Group liabilities 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Segment liabilities 80,846 72,901 Unallocated term loans 250,200 222,968 Unallocated employees end of service benefits 219 218 Unallocated accounts payable and accruals 12,547 7,276 82,238 Unallocated bank overdraft and other short term borrowings 80,491 Unallocated amounts due to related parties 61 123 ----------------------- ----------------------- Group liabilities 426,111 383,977 122 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 5 SEGMENT INFORMATION continued Other information The following table provides information relating to Groups major customers who contribute more than 10% towards the Groups revenues: Distribution and Healthcare services Total US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 Year ended 31 December 2013 75,802 - 75,802 Customer 1 Customer 2 32,715 - 32,715 ----------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------- 108,517 - 108,517 Year ended 31 December 2012 Customer 1 66,354 - 66,354 Customer 2 27,426 - 27,426 ----------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------- 93,780 - 93,780 Geographical information The Group has only one geographical segment United Arab Emirates.
All revenues from external customers are generated in the United Arab Emirates and all non-current assets are located in the United Arab Emirates.
Revenue is recognised following the formal acceptance of the Groups reimbursement claims by suppliers and is measured at the confirmed amount receivable.
8 FINANCE COSTS 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Bank interest 12,788 11,968 2,258 Bank charges 2,099 Change in fair value of derivative financial instrument 702 329 ----------------------- ----------------------- 14,344 13,738 9 FINANCE INCOME 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Bank and other interest income 3,814 4,325 ----------------------- ----------------------- 3,814 4,325 124 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 10 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR BEFORE TAX The profit for the year before tax is stated after charging: 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense note 6 265,852 246,749 Cost of inventories written off note 18 1,781 1,753 Minimum lease payments recognised as operating lease expense 21,518 21,029 Depreciation note 16 9,663 7,038 2,462 Net Impairment of accounts receivable note 19 1,291 Employees end of service benefits note 26 2,362 2,142 Net foreign exchange loss 3,841 3,034 11 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor and its associates in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group.
2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 615 500 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: - the audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 142 161 155 - audit related assurance services 173 - other assurance services 15 2,283 - Tax compliances services 25 - - Tax advisory services 25 - corporate finance services - 2,622 - non audit services 19 41 ----------------------- ----------------------- 996 5,780 Offset against share premium note 21 - 4,285 ----------------------- ----------------------- Total included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive 996 1,495 Income Other assurance services in 2012 represented work performed on the Groups historical financial information and corporate finance services represent work performed on the Groups long form and working capital report, both of which were required for the Companys premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Included in the fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts in the current year is an amount of US$ 100,000 which was under-accrued in respect of the prior year audit of the Companys annual accounts.
125 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 11 AUDITORS REMUNERATION continued The fees paid to the auditor includes US$ 85,000 2012: US$ 249,500 in respect of out of pocket expenses of which US$ nil 2012: US$ 205,000 relates to out of pocket expenses in respect of the corporate finance services work referred to above.
There were no benefits in kind provided to the auditor or its associates in either 2013 or 2012.
Of the total fees payable to the auditor in 2013, US$ 437,000 2012: US$ 297,500 was payable to the auditor Ernst & Young LLP, in the United Kingdom, and the remainder was payable to an associate of the auditor based in the UAE.
The average number of monthly employees during the year was made up as follows: 2013 2012 3,169 Healthcare 2,715 Distribution & services 1,726 1,538 Administration 151 162 ----------------------- ----------------------- 5,046 4,415 b Directors remuneration 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Directors remuneration 1,746 1,352 There are no other employee benefits such as long-term benefits, post-employment benefits or share options paid or payable to the directors.
Further information in respect of this compensation paid to directors is disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
13 FLOTATION COSTS During the year ended 31 December 2012 costs of US$ 18,175,000 were incurred in relation to completion of the Companys Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Of these costs, US$ 14,773,000 has been deducted from the share premium account note 21 and US$ 3,402,000 has been charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
Out of the total costs of US$ 18,175,000 an amount of US$ nil remains payable as at 31 December 2013 2012: US$ 645,000 and is included in accounts payable and accruals.
126 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 14 TAX The Group operates solely in the United Arab Emirates and as there is no corporation tax in the United Arab Emirates, no taxes are recognised or payable on the operations in the UAE.
It is the opinion of management that there are sufficient losses in the Company to offset any potential taxable income arising in the UK and accordingly any tax liability that could arise would be immaterial.
15 EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic and diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Parent Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic and diluted earnings per share computations: 2012 2013 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent US$ 000 68,165 58,891 185,714 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 000 171,824 Basic and diluted earnings per share US$ 0.367 0.343 The weighted average number of shares for the year ended 31 December 2012 has been adjusted for the effect of the increase in share capital as a result of the Companys premium listing on the London Stock Exchange note 21.
The rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 3.40% 2012: 3.81% which is the effective rate of the borrowings used to finance the capital expenditure.
As companies in UAE are not subject to taxation and as such there is no tax relief in respect of capitalised interest.
Generally hospital and distribution operations are carried out on land and buildings which are leased from Government authorities or certain private parties.
The majority of the lease periods range from five to twenty years apart from New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai Dubai General Hospital, the land on which the Khalifa City Specialty Hospital is being constructed and the warehouse facilities which had leases renewable on an annual basis note 2.3.
As at 31 December 2013 US$ 50,244,600 2012 US$ 21,796,700 of the amounts included in Property plant and equipment related to assets with annually renewable leases.
Subsequent to year end, the lease for the land on which the Khalifa City Specialty Hospital is being constructed was renewed for a period of 27 years note 34.
Khalifa City Specialty Hospital has US$ 49,696,000 included in Property plant and equipment as at 31 December 2103.
In accordance with the local laws, except in some specific locations in the UAE the registered title of land and buildings must be held in the name of a UAE national.
Certain land and buildings with a carrying amount of US$ 9,648,000 31 December 2012: US$ 9,974,000 are held in the name of a previous shareholder for the beneficial interest of the Group As the beneficial interest of such land and buildings resides with the Group, these assets are recorded within land and buildings in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The directors take into account this local legal registration requirement, the Groups entitlement to the beneficial interest arising from these assets, as well as other general business factors, when considering whether such assets are impaired.
Property and equipment with a net carrying amount of US$ nil at 31 December 2013 2012: US$ 4,849,000 are pledged as security against term loans.
17 INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Goodwill Balance at 1 January 1,016 - Addition from business combination - 1,016 ----------------------- ----------------------- Balance at 31 December 1,016 1,016 On 1 July 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of BR Medical Suites FZ LLC, a company registered in Dubai, UAE, from its owner, Dr BR Shetty, a shareholder and director of the Company.
The consideration for the acquisition was US$ 9,000,000.
BR Medical Suites FZ LLC is a day patient centre with four operating theatres and state of the art medical equipment.
The Group acquired BR Medical Suites FZ LLC because it increases the range of services in its healthcare segment and will work as a synergy to their existing facilities in the areas of patient profiling as well as connectivity with international healthcare professionals.
Goodwill arose on the acquisition of BR Medical Suites FZ LLC on 1 July 2012.
The goodwill is attributable to the synergies that arose as a result of the acquisition.
Goodwill is allocated to the healthcare segment and is monitored at the healthcare segment level, which equates to the level for impairment testing.
The recoverable amount of the CGU has been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use pre-tax cash flow projection based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five year period.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 9.3% and a 3% growth rate is used to arrive at the cash flows between year 6 to 10 and a terminal value beyond year 10 129 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 17 INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued is used using a zero growth rate.
Management has assessed the key assumptions within these calculations using their past experience from operating within the healthcare industry.
The growth rate does not exceed either the long term average growth rate for the healthcare business in which the CGU operates or the country growth rate.
The main assumptions used to compute the value in use were those concerning the discount rate, the most recent cash flow projections and the expected growth rate at the end of the time horizon of the forecast.
In addition, the Group performed a sensitivity analysis for changes in the basic assumptions of the impairment test, specifically focusing on the variables that have the greatest impact on recoverable value discount rate and projections.
The results of these tests showed no indications of impairment.
This is recognised in direct costs.
Trust receipts issued by banks amounting to US$ 3,100,000 2012: US$ 9,493,000 are secured against the inventories.
19 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Accounts receivable 145,993 158,463 Receivable from suppliers for promotional expenses 9,696 11,684 Other receivables 6,845 6,219 Prepayments 5,848 5,036 ----------------------- ----------------------- 168,382 181,402 130 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 19 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS continued Receivables from suppliers relate to advertising and promotional expenses incurred by the Group.
Accounts receivable are stated net of provision for doubtful debts of US$ 8,241,000 2012: US$ 6,444,000.
Movements in the provision for doubtful debts are as follows: 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 At 1 January 6,444 5,153 Written o ff 665 - 472 Written back note 10 951 Charge for the year note 10 2,934 2,242 ----------------------- ----------------------- At 31 December 8,241 6,444 The ageing of unimpaired accounts receivable is as follows: Past due but not impaired Neither past due nor 91-180 181-365 Total impaired 90 days days days 365 days US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 31 December 2013 145,993 104,028 31,658 6,053 2,774 1,480 Accounts receivable 31 December 2012 Accounts receivable 158,463 92,086 41,051 15,950 9,007 369 Unimpaired receivables are expected, on the basis of past experience, to be fully recoverable.
It is not the practice of Group to obtain collateral over receivables and they are therefore unsecured.
As at 31 December 2013 trade receivables of US$ 8,241,000 2012: US$ 6,444,000 were impaired and fully provided for.
Credit risk is managed through the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to credit risk management note 29.
A majority of the receivables that are past due but not impaired are from insurance companies and government-linked entities in the United Arab Emirates which are inherently slow payers due to their long invoice verification and approval of payment procedures.
Of the net trade receivables balance of US$ 145,993,000 an amount of US$ 61,353,000 is against five customers 2012: US$ 63,966,000 is against five customers.
The Groups terms require receivables to be repaid within 90-120 days depending on the type of customer, which is in line with local practice in the UAE.
Due to the long credit period offered to customers, a significant amount of trade accounts receivable are neither past due nor impaired.
131 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 20 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents included in the consolidated statement of cash flows comprise of the following: 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Bank deposits 193,366 233,703 Bank ba lances and cash 75,329 23,747 Bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings 82,238 80,668 ----------------------- ----------------------- 186,457 176,782 Adjustments for: Short term borrowings 74,183 51,604 Bank deposits maturing in over 3 months 148,380 136,129 Restricted cash 33,059 10,327 ----------------------- ----------------------- - Cash and cash equivalents 79,201 81,930 Bank deposits of US$ 193,366,000 2012: US$ 233,703,000 are with commercial banks in the United Arab Emirates.
These are mainly denominated in the UAE Dirhams and earn interest at the respective deposit rates.
These deposits have original maturity between 3 to 12 months 2012: 3 to 12 months.
Short term borrowings include trust receipts and invoice discounting facilities which mature between 90 and 180 days.
Trust receipts are short term borrowings to finance imports.
The bank overdrafts and short term borrowings are secured by assets of the Group up to the amount of the respective borrowings and personal guarantees of the shareholders H. E. Saeed Mohamed Butti Mohamed Al Qebaisi, Dr BR Shetty and Khalifa Butti Omair Yousif Ahmad Al Muhairi and carry interest at EIBOR plus margin rates ranging from 3% to 4%.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had US$ 18,323,000 2012: US$ 11,444,000 of undrawn bank overdraft facilities, which are renewable annually.
Restricted cash mainly represents funds held by a bank in respect of upcoming loan repayment instalments.
Share issue costs incurred in 2012 include US$ 4,285,000 of fees paid to the auditor note 11.
22 GROUP RESTRUCTURING RESERVE The group restructuring reserve arises on consolidation under the pooling of interests method used for group restructuring.
Under this method, the group is treated as a continuation of the NMC Healthcare LLC group.
The difference between the share capital of NMC Healthcare LLC US$ 27,226,000 and the carrying amount of the investment in that company US$ 37,227,000, which equates to the net assets of NMC Healthcare LLC at the date of reorganisation 28 March 2012, amounting to US$ 10,001,000, is recorded on consolidation as a group restructuring reserve note 4.
23 RETAINED EARNINGS As at 31 December 2013, retained earnings of US$ 14,333,000 2012: US$ 12,627,000 are not distributable.
This relates to a UAE Companies Law requirement to set aside 10% of annual profit of all UAE subsidiaries until their respective reserves equal 50% of their paid up share capital.
The subsidiaries discontinue such annual transfers once this requirement has been met.
133 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 24 DIVIDEND In the AGM on 27 June 2013 the shareholders approved a dividend of 4.1 pence per share, amounting to GBP 7,614,286 US$ 11,598,326 paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 31 May 2013.
The dividend was paid on 4 July 2013.
No interim dividend was declared during the year.
Subject to shareholders approval, a final dividend of 4.4 pence per share, GBP 8,212,700 US$ 13,633,000 will be paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 30 May 2014.
31 December 2013: During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group agreed a new syndicated loan facility, led by JP Morgan Chase Bank, of US$ 225,000,000 with an additional available facility of US$ 75,000,000 which the group has not drawn down to date.
The loan facility is repayable over 54 monthly instalments with a grace period of six months and carries interest at the rate of 1 month US$ LIBOR 3% mandatory costs: if any, per annum.
The new syndicated loan facility has been utilised to repay some of the existing debts including the debt with JP Morgan Chase Bank against the facility of US$ 150,000,000 obtained in the previous year and will also be utilised for capital expenditures.
The Group has utilised an amount of US$ 225,000,000 against the new syndicated loan facility as of 31 December 2013.
This new syndicated loan is guaranteed by corporate guarantees provided by NMC Health plc and operating subsidiaries of the Group.
The new syndicated loan is secured against a collateral package which includes an assignment of some insurance company receivables and their proceeds by the Group and a pledge over certain bank accounts within the Group.
In addition to the JP Morgan loan facility, term loans also include other short term revolving loans which get drawn down and repaid over the period and carry interest at varying rates which include EIBOR margins ranging from 3% to 3.75% per annum, except for one of the loans which carries interest at a fixed rate of 7.5% per annum.
The Group has charged an amount of US$ 3,394,000 2012: US$ nil to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income with respect to unamortised transaction costs of previously existing debts which have been settled during the year using the proceeds of the new syndicated loan led by JP Morgan Chase Bank.
134 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 25 TERM LOANS continued 31 December 2012: During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group agreed a new syndicated loan facility, led by JP Morgan Chase Bank, of US$ 150,000,000, repayable over 5 years with interest charged at the rate of 1 month LIBOR plus 3.5% per annum.
The Group had drawn down US$ 150,000,000 against the loan as at 31 December 2012.
Repayments in the year ended 31 December 2012 amounted to US$ 18,889,000.
Finance fees of US$ 636,000 had been capitalised against the loan as at 31 December 2012 and were being amortised over the period of the loan.
This syndicated loan was guaranteed by corporate guarantees provided by all operating subsidiaries of the Group and personal guarantees provided by H E Saeed Mohamed Butti Mohamed Al Qebaisi, Khalifa Butti Omair Yousif Ahmad Al Muhairi, and Dr BR Shetty.
The syndicated loan was secured against a collateral package consisting of: i an assignment of Daman and Abu Dhabi National Insurance health insurance receivables and their proceeds by the Borrower: ii a pledge over the accounts of the Borrower: iii an account cash sweep Borrower accounts only : and iv mortgage security over the real estate of the Dubai Specialty Hospital.
As noted above, this loan was repaid during the current year using the proceeds from the new syndicated loan facility.
26 EMPLOYEES END OF SERVICE BENEFITS Movements in the provision recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2013 2012 1 January US$ 000 US$ 000 2012 US$ 000 Balance at 1 January 10,380 8,864 7,532 Charge f or the year 2,362 2,142 1,821 Employees end of service benefits paid 643 626 531 Net transferred from related party - - 42 ----------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------- Balance at 31 December 12,099 10,380 8,864 S Current 2,063 1,746 1,161 Non current 10,036 8,634 7,703 ----------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------- Balance at 31 December 12,099 10,380 8,864 S Charge for the year comprise of the following: Current service cost 1,909 1,784 1,821 Interest cost 453 358 - ----------------------- ----------------------- ----------------------- Balance at 31 December 2,362 2,142 1,821 S In accordance with the provisions of IAS 19 Employee Benefits, management has carried out an exercise to assess the present value of its obligation at 31 December 2013 and 2012, using the projected unit credit method, in respect of employees end of service benefits payable under the UAE Labour Law.
The impact of the actuarial valuation is not material to the Group, accordingly no actuarial gain or losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Management has assumed an average length of service of 5 years 2012: 5 years and increment promotion costs of 3.0% 2012: 3.0%.
The expected liability at the 135 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 26 EMPLOYEES END OF SERVICE BENEFITS continued date of employees leaving service has been discounted to its net present value using a discount rate of 4.5% 2012: 4.5%.
Management also performed a sensitivity analysis for changes in discount rate and increment costs: the results of this analysis showed that none of the factors had any material impact on the actuarial valuation.
Note: No actuarial valuation was performed as of 31 December 2011.
28 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS These represent transactions with related parties, including major shareholders and senior management of the Group, and entities controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by such parties, or where such parties are members of the key management personnel of the entities.
Pricing policies and terms of all transactions are approved by the management of the Group.
The Companys immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of three individuals H. E. Saeed Bin Butti, Dr BR Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti who are all shareholders and directors of the Company and who together have the ability to control the company.
As the immediate and ultimate controlling party is a group of individuals, it does not produce consolidated financial statements.
Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2012 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC Sales 8,828 4,135 Purchases 30,040 13,206 Rent charged 418 425 management personnel in NMC.
Other Income 582 - Shareholder who has significant influence over NMC is a key management personnel of the entity P Ma erson nagn em el en of t t f h ee e e s ntity.
5,445 907 Sales 2,608 - 136 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 28 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued Transactions with related parties included in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Shareholder with significant influence over NMC: Acquisi tion of BR Medical Suites FZ LLC - 9,000 On 1 July 2012, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of BR Medical Suites FZ LLC, a company registered in Dubai, UAE, from its owner, Dr BR Shetty, a shareholder with significant influence over the Company and director of the Company.
The consideration for the acquisition was US$ 9,000,000 note 17.
Amounts due from and due to related parties disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Entities significantly influenced by a shareholder who is a key management personnel in NMC 3,619 Amounts due from related parties 58 Amounts due to related parties 5,018 - Shareholder who has significant influence over NMC is a key management personnel of the entity Amounts due from related parties 5,635 1,543 Shareholder: Amounts due to related parties 61 123 Outstanding balances with related parties at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 were unsecured, payable on 60120 days term and carried interest at 0 % 31 December 2012: 0% per annum.
As at 31 December 2013: US$ 3,249,000. of the amounts due from related parties were past due but not impaired 31 December 2012: US$ nil.
The Group has incurred an expenses and recharged back an amount of US$ 12,340,000 31 December 2012: US$ 636,000 made on behalf of a related party where a shareholder who has significant influence over the Group is a key management personnel of that entity.
With the exception of the JP Morgan Chase syndicated loan facility of US$ 225,000,000, all credit facilities provided by the bankers to the Group are secured by joint and several personal corporate guarantees of the shareholders H. E. Saeed Mohamed Butti Al Qebaisi, Dr BR Shetty and Khalifa Butti Omair Yousif Ahmad Al Muhairi.
Pharmacy licenses, under which the Group sells its products, are granted to the shareholders or directors of the Company, who are UAE nationals.
No payments are made in respect of these licenses to shareholders or directors.
137 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 28 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS continued Compensation of key management personnel 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Short term benefits 4,065 2,174 Employe es end of service benefits 19 32 ----------------------- ----------------------- 4,084 2,206 The key management personnel include all the Non-Executive Directors, the two Executive Directors and five senior management personnel.
The spouse and the non-dependent son of one of the shareholders are employed by the Group.
The total compensation for employment received by the spouse and the non-dependent son in the year ended 31 December 2013 amount to US$ 541,000 2012: US$ 476,000.
29 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES The Groups principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise loans and borrowings and trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has accounts and other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that arise directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on its interest bearing assets and liabilities bank deposits, bank overdrafts and other short term borrowings and term loans.
Management has sought to limit the exposure of the Group to any adverse future movements in interest rates by entering into interest rate swap arrangements.
Management is therefore of the opinion that the Groups exposure to interest rate risk is limited.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the statement of comprehensive income to reasonably possible changes in interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
The sensitivity of the statement of comprehensive income is the effect of the assumed changes in interest rates on the Groups profit for the year, taking into account interest rate swap arrangements, based on the floating rate financial assets and financial liabilities as of the respective year end.
Increase Effect on profit Effect on profit decrease in at 31 December at 31 December basis points 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 100 1,105 454 100 1,105 454 138 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 29 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group limits its credit risk with respect to customers due to the nature of the customers that it has dealings with.
Within the Healthcare business the majority of the Groups customers are Insurance Companies.
The largest insurance company is fully backed by Sovereign wealth funding from Abu Dhabi.
All other insurance companies are required to be listed on a stock exchange and therefore are governed by the regulations of their respective markets.
Within the distribution business the Group deals primarily with large reputable multinational retail companies.
The Group further seeks to limit its credit risk by setting credit limits for individual customers and monitoring outstanding receivables.
The Group limits its credit risk with regard to bank deposits by only dealing with reputable banks.
The external credit ratings for the banks at which the bank deposits and cash at bank are held are as follows: 2012 2013 US$ 000 US$ 000 AA - 2,169 Aa AA2 - 40,839 AAA-1 Aa3 498 199 A A1 701 14,521 A A2 32,352 4,452 A A-1 1,762 - A3 A- 1,188 9,532 AA- - 35 Baa2 789 - BBB- 187,822 - 13,099 BBB Baa1 Baa1 P-2 2,166 Baa2 P-2 - 111,070 Without external credit rating 30,167 72,237 ----------------------- ----------------------- Total bank deposit and cash at bank 268,378 257,220 With respect to credit risk arising from cash and cash equivalents, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
139 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 29 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of banking facilities.
The Group limits its liquidity risk by raising funds from its operations and ensuring bank facilities are available.
Trade payables are normally settled within 90120 days of the date of purchase.
The table below summarises the maturities of the Groups undiscounted financial liabilities, based on contractual payment dates and current market interest rates.
These are to be financed from the fixed deposits held by the Group.
140 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 29 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk comprises of transaction and statement of financial position risk.
Transaction risk relates to the Groups cash flow being adversely affected by a change in the exchange rates of foreign currencies against the UAE Dirham.
Statement of financial position risk relates to the risk of the Groups monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies acquiring a lower or higher value, when translated into UAE Dirhams, as a result of currency movements.
The Group is exposed to currency risk on its trade accounts payable denominated in foreign currencies, mainly in Euros, Swiss Francs and Pound Sterling.
Significant foreign currency payable balances included in the consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 EUR 1,611 4,198 CHF 612 730 The table below indicates the Groups foreign currency exposure at 31 December, as a result of its monetary liabilities.
As the US Dollar is pegged to the UAE Dirham, balances in US Dollars are not considered to represent significant currency risk.
The analysis calculates the effect of a reasonable possible movement of the US$ currency rate against the foreign currencies, with all other variables held constant, on the statement of comprehensive income due to the fair value of currency sensitive monetary liabilities.
Effect on Swiss British Kuwait Australia profit and Euros Francs Pound Dinar n Dollar equity Assumed change from year end exchange rates 5% 5% 5% 5% 5% 31 December 2013 US$ 000 81 31 14 3 - 129 31 December 2012 US$ 000 210 37 15 1 - 263 Assumed change from year end exchange rates -5% -5% -5% -5% -5% 31 December 2013 81 31 14 3 129 US$ 000 - 31 December 2012 US$ 000 210 37 15 1 - 263 141 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 29 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES continued Capital management The primary objective of the Group's capital management is to ensure that it maintains healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximize shareholders value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in business conditions.
Capital comprises share capital, share premium, group restructuring reserve and retained earnings and is measured at US$ 386,236,000 as at 31 December 2013 2012: US$ 329,669,000.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Certain banking facilities may also impose covenant requirements on the Group with respect to capital management.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by capital plus net debt.
The Group includes within net debt, interest bearing loans and borrowings, accounts payable and accruals and other payables less bank deposits and bank balances and cash.
2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 332,438 303,636 76,495 Accounts payable and accruals 69,838 Less: bank deposits, bank balances and cash 268,695 257,450 ----------------------- ----------------------- 140,238 Net debt 116,024 Capital 386,236 329,669 ----------------------- ----------------------- Capital and net debt 526,474 445,693 Gearing ratio 27% 26% 30 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Group had contingent liabilities in respect of bank and other guarantees and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business from which it is anticipated that no material liabilities will arise at 31 December 2013 of US$ 7,067,000 2012: US$ 7,282,000.
31 COMMITMENTS Capital commitments The Group had future capital commitments of US$ 76,402,000 at 31 December 2013 2012: US$ 103,106,000 principally relating to the completion of ongoing capital projects.
Other commitments 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases Within one year 10,491 10,233 After one year but not more than five years 43,984 43,258 More than five years 102,782 113,999 ----------------------- ----------------------- 157,257 167,490 142 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 32 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Group has entered into the following interest rate swaps to manage its interest rate exposure: Negative fair Notional value amount Maturity profile US$ 000 US$ 000 At 31 December 2013 Interest rate swap US$ 179 24,503 Feb-14 At 31 December 2012 Interest r ate swap US$ 881 24,503 Feb-14 The interest rate swaps were contracted to hedge the interest cash flows on term loans.
As these swaps do not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39, the movement in fair value gain of US$ 702,000 for the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: gain of US$ 329,000 has been charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The notional amounts indicate the volume of transactions outstanding at year end and are neither indicative of the market risk nor credit risk.
The negative fair value of interest rate swaps is included within accounts payable and accruals as other payables.
33 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The fair values of the Groups financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values at the statement of financial position date.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
For financial instruments that are recognized at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between Levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorization bases on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
143 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 33 FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Liabilities measured at fair value: Total fair Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 value US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 US$ 000 31 December 2013 Interest rate swaps - 179 - 179 31 December 2012 Interest rate swaps - 881 - 881 During the year 31 December 2013, there were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
The fair value of the interest rate swap is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
It is measured using the Forward Price Method: under this method a forward rate or value i s determined based on the current market price or value of the interest rate and an appropriate rate curve and assuming that the forward price, rate or value will be realized in future periods.
34 SUBSEQUENT EVENT Subsequent to year end, the lease for the land on which Khalifa City Specialty Hospital is being constructed which as at 31 December 2013 was an annually renewable lease has been renewed so that it is now a 27 year lease expiring in the year 2040.
144 NMC Health plc FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Year ended 31 December 2013 145 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NMC HEALTH PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of NMC Health plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Changes in Equity and the Statement of Cash Flows, and the related notes 1 to 14.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 54 to 55, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
146 Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of NMC Health plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
150 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 1 CORPORATE INFORMATION NMC Health plc the Company or Parent is a Company which was incorporated in England and Wales on 20 July 2011.
The Company is a public limited company.
The address of the registered office of the Company is 23 Hanover Square, London, W1S 1JB.
The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 24 February 2014 and the statement of financial position was signed on the Boards behalf by Dr B. R. Shetty and Mr Khalifa Bin Butti.
2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union as they apply to the financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 and applied in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
No profit and loss account is presented by the Company as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Functional currency The UAE Dirham is determined to be the functional currency of the Company.
The reporting currency of the Company is United States of America Dollar US$ as this is a more globally recognised currency.
Going concern These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Company is the parent of NMC Health plc group and is solely a holding company with no business activities of its own.
The Company earned a dividend and reported a net profit during the year.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Review on pages 8 to 43.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic Review on pages 27 to 30.
The Group has considerable financial resources including bank facilities.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The directors expect that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
151 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.1 BASIS OF PREPARATION continued Comparative information Reclassification The Company has made the following reclassification in respect of the comparatives to conform to the current period presentation.
This reclassification has been made to correct the presentation of the financial statements.
An amount of U$ 3,402,000 in respect of flotation costs has been reclassified from financing activities to operating activities in the statement of cash flows.
This reclassification has no impact on previously reported equity or profit of the Company.
2.2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATES The key assumptions concerning the future, key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements at the statement of financial position date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Significant judgements Functional currency The UAE Dirham is determined to be the functional currency of the Company.
As part of this assessment, the following information has been taken into account: The primary economic environment influencing the Companys income dividends is the UAE and the effect of the local environment is limited to expenses incurred within the UK.
Fair value of intercompany receivable from NMC Healthcare LLC Judgement has been used to determine the fair value of the intercompany loan due to the Company from NMC Healthcare LLC which has been capitalized by the Company as an investment in NMC Healthcare LLC.
The market value of the intercompany loan was determined to be equal to its face and book value.
The value of the shares in NMC Healthcare LLC issued to the Company was determined to be equal to the market value of the loan balance immediately prior to capitalisation.
2.3 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial period.
The Company applies IFRS as adopted in the European Union, the European Union endorsement states that IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 must be applied at the latest with an effective date of 1 January 2014 although earlier adoption is permitted.
Accordingly, the Company has early adopted IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 with effect from 1 January 2013.
The amendments to IFRS, which are effective as of 1 January 2013 and are described in more detail below, have no impact on the Company.
152 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.3 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued New and amended standards and interpretations The following amendments to IFRS are effective as of 1 January 2013: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
IFRS 10 had no impact on the consolidation of investments held by the Company IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities Nonmonetary Contributions by Ventures.
IFRS 11 had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Company as it does not have any JCEs.
None of these disclosure requirements are applicable for financial statements.
Accordingly, the Company has not made such disclosures.
The application of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted the fair value measurements carried out by the Company.
IAS 1 Presentation of items of Other Comprehensive IncomeAmendments to IAS 1 The amendments to IAS 1 introduce a grouping of items presented in Other Comprehensive Income.
The amendments affect presentation only and have no impact on the Companys financial position or performance.
The amendments affect presentation only and have no impact on the companys financial position or performance.
153 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.3 CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 2011 IAS 19 revised 2011 changes the accounting for defined benefit plans and termination benefits.
The most significant change relates to the accounting for changes in defined benefits obligation and plan assets, The amendments require the recognition of changes in defined benefit obligation and in the fair value of the plan assets when they occur, and hence eliminate the corridor approach permitted under the previous version of IAS 19 and accelerate the recognition of past service costs.
All actuarial gain and losses are recognized immediately through other comprehensive income in order for the net provision asset or liability recognized in the statement of financial position to reflect the full value of the plan deficit or surplus.
These changes have had no impact on the financial position or performance of the Company as it does not have any defined benefit obligations and plan assets.
2.4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Investment in subsidiary Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company controls the operating and financial policies, generally by owning more than 50% of voting rights.
Investments in subsidiaries are recognised at acquisition cost less any provision for impairment.
When the Company incurs increases in or return of share capital, to from its subsidiaries, such movements are recognised within the cost of investment in subsidiaries.
At each reporting date, an assessment is made to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount of the investment in subsidiary is made, which is considered to be the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
Fair value is determined as the amount that would be obtained from the sale of the investment in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
When this information is not available the fair value is determined based on the net present value of the future cash flows related to its subsidiaries, using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
If the carrying amount of an investment exceeds the recoverable amount, a provision is recorded in the income statement to reflect the investment at the recoverable amount.
Where an impairment charge has previously been recognised, an assessment is made at the end of each reporting period as to whether there is any indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If any such indication exists, an estimate of the recoverable amount is made.
An impairment loss is reversed to the income statement to the extent that the increased carrying value of the investment in subsidiary does not exceed the carrying value that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Acquisition of subsidiary under common control When the Company acquires a subsidiary under common control, the cost of the investment is deemed to be the Companys share of the net assets of the subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consists of cash in hand and bank balances 154 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 2.4 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Equity The Company has issued ordinary shares that are classified as equity.
Listing transaction costs Transaction costs of the IPO are accounted for as a deduction from equity, net of any related income tax benefit.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has an obligation legal or constructive arising from a past event, and the costs to settle the obligation are both probable and able to be reliably measured.
Increases in provisions due to the passage of time are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
All differences are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
Financial instruments Financial instruments comprise amounts due from a related party, cash and bank balances and other payables.
Impairment of financial assets An assessment is made at each statement of financial position date to determine whether there is objective evidence that a specific financial asset may be impaired.
If such evidence exists, any impairment loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
155 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 3 ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED BUT NOT EFFECTIVE The standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance of the Companys financial statements are disclosed below.
The company intends to adopt these standards, if applicable, when they become effective.
The adoption of the first phase of IFRS 9 will not have an impact on classification and measurement of the Companys financial assets and financial liabilities.
It is not expected that this amendment would be relevant to the Company, since none of the Companys subsidiaries would qualify to be an investment entity under IFRS 10.
These amendments are not expected to be relevant to the Company.
The Company does not expect that IFRIC 21 will have any material financial impact in future financial statements.
The amendments have no impact on the Company.
156 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 4 INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 As at 1 January 37,227 - Addition - 37,227 Transfer of amount due from a related party note 6 166,900 - ----------------------- ----------------------- As at 31 December 204,127 37,227 This represents the cost of investment in NMC Healthcare LLC previous parent company, a wholly owned subsidiary held through the holding company subsidiaries NMC Health Holdco Limited and NMC Holding Co LLC.
As part of the restructuring of NMC Healthcare LLC group, on 28 March 2012, NMC Health plc issued shares to the existing shareholders of NMC Healthcare LLC in exchange for shares already held in NMC Healthcare LLC.
The cost of investment represents the Companys share of the net assets of NMC Healthcare LLC at the date of the group restructuring.
During the year NMC Healthcare LLC issued a promissory note to the Company in respect of the amount that it owed to the Company.
Subsequently, during the year, agreement was reached between the Company and NMC Healthcare LLC, that the obligations which NMC Healthcare LLC had under the terms of the promissory note would be released and discharged by the Company in return for the Company receiving shares in NMC Healthcare LLC.
Accordingly, NMC Healthcare LLC issued 14,568 shares to the Company.
The market value of the shares issued was equal to the market value of the inter-company debt as at the date of the loan capitalisation of US$ 166,900,000.
The subsidiaries held by NMC Heath plc are as follows: Percentage of holdings 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Direct subsidiaries: NMC Holding Co LLC 100% 100% NMC Health Holdco Limited 100% 100% Indirect subsidiaries: 100% NMC Healthcare LLC 100% New Pharmacy Company Limited 99% 99% New Medical Centre Hospital LLC-Dubai 99% 99% NMC Specialty Hospital LLC-Abu Dhabi 99% 99% NMC Specialty Hospital LLCDubai 99% 99% New Medical Centre Trading LLC 99% 99% Bait Al Shifaa Pharmacy LLC-Dubai 99% 99% New Medical Centre LLC-Sharjah 99% 99% New Medical Centre Specialty Hospital LLC-Al Ain 99% 99% Reliance Information Technology LLC 99% 99% BR Medical Suites FZ LLC 100% 100% Brightpoint Hospital LLC 99% 99% NMC Day Surgery Centre LLC 99% 99% NMC Dubai Investment Park LLC 99% 99% All the above subsidiaries are incorporated in the UAE except for NMC Health Holdco Limited, which is incorporated in England and Wales.
157 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 5 ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAYMENTS 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Other receivables 33 - Prepayments 17 - ----------------------- ----------------------- 50 - 6 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS These represent transactions with related parties, i. e. major shareholders and senior management of the Company, and entities controlled, jointly controlled or significantly influenced by such parties.
Pricing policies and terms of all transactions are approved by the management of the Company.
Included in amounts due from a related party as at 31 December 2012, as disclosed in the statement of financial position, are funds raised from the Companys premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and provided to NMC Healthcare LLC.
This amount was interest free and had no fixed repayment terms and hence was payable on demand.
As referred to in note 4, during the year the inter-company amount owed to the Company by NMC Healthcare LLC was capitalised into share capital in NMC Healthcare LLC.
2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Amounts due from Subsidiary Amounts due from a related party 2,875 166,923 Compensation of key management personnel 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Short term benefits 1,586 638 Key management personnel include all the Non-Executives Directors and two senior management personnel.
158 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 7 SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE PREMIUM As at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012: Share capital Number of Ordinary shares shares Total thousands US$ 000 US$ 000 Issued and fully paid nomina l value 10 pence sterling each 185,714 29,566 29,566 On incorporation the share capital of the Company was 100 divided into 100 Ordinary shares of 1 each.
On 28 March 2012, as authorised by resolutions of the Company: each of the Ordinary shares were sub-divided into 10 Ordinary shares of 10 pence each: and the share capital of the Company was increased to 13,000,000 by the issue of 129,999,000 Ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
During the period ended 31 December 2012 costs of US$ 18,175,000 were incurred in relation to completion of the Companys Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Of these costs, US$ 14,773,000 has been deducted from the share premium account and US$ 3,402,000 has been charged to the statement of comprehensive income in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
Out of the total costs of US$ 18,175,000 an amount of US$ nil remains payable as at 31 December 2013 2012: US$ 645,000 and was included in other payables.
159 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 8 OTHER PAYABLES AND ACCRUALS 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Other payables 238 737 1234 Accrued e xpenses 1,014 ----------------------- ----------------------- 1,472 1,751 9 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE PARENT COMPANY The Profit for the year in the financial statements of the Company is US$ 14,632,000 2012: loss for Company for the period from 20 July 2011 to 31 December 2012 was US$ 5,938,000.
10 AUDITORS REMUNERATION The Company paid US$ 615,000 to its auditor in respect of the audit of the Companys annual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: US$ 500,000, which includes a portion in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Company.
Fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP and its associates for non-audit services to the Company itself are not disclosed in the individual accounts of NMC Health plc because group financial statements are prepared which are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
11 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 2013 2012 US$ 000 US$ 000 Directors remuneration 944 557 There are no other employee benefits such as long-term benefits, post-employment benefits or share options paid or payable to the directors.
12 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Companys principal financial liabilities are other payables, arising in the normal course of business.
The Companys financial assets include an amount due from a related party and bank balances.
The companys activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk.
The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its bank balances only, as the balance due from a related party is interest free, and therefore the Companys exposure to interest rate risk is limited.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument, leading to a financial loss.
The Companys credit risk arises from amounts due from a related party and bank balances.
160 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 12 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued The directors assess the credit quality of the related party by taking into account their financial position, past experience and other factors.
Management does not expect any losses from non-performance by this counterparty, which is a subsidiary of the Company.
The Company limits its credit risk with regard to bank balances by only dealing with reputable banks.
The credit rating of the bank at which the cash at bank is held is AA.
Liquidity risk The Companys objective is to maintain sufficient funding to meet its obligations as they fall due.
The table below analyses the Companys undiscounted financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the contractual payment dates.
The Company is exposed to currency risk on its other payables denominated in Pound Sterling.
Foreign currency payable balances included in the statement of financial position denominated in Pound Sterling are US$ 571,000 2012: US$ 1,251,000.
A - 5% movement of the US Dollar currency rate against Pound Sterling, with all other variables held constant, results in an decrease increase on the profit for the year of US$ 29,000 2012: loss of US$ 63,000.
Fair value estimation The fair values of the Companys financial instruments are not materially different from their carrying values at the statement of financial position date.
Financial guarantees: The company is a guarantor along with other fellow subsidiary undertakings for US$ 225,000,000 2012: nil of syndicated loans from JP Morgan raised by its subsidiary NMC Healthcare LLC.
161 NMC Health plc NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At 31 December 2013 13 DIVIDENDS In the AGM on 27 June 2013 the shareholders approved a dividend of 4.1 pence per share, amounting to GBP 7,614,286 US$ 11,598,326 paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 31 May 2013.
Subject to shareholders approval, a final dividend of 4.4 pence per share, GBP 8,212,700 US$ 13,633,000 will be paid to shareholders on the Companys share register on 31 May 2014 14 TAX The Group operates solely in the United Arab Emirates and as there is no corporation tax in the United Arab Emirates, no taxes are recognised or payable on the operations in the UAE.
