Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 171 Shareholder Information Heading One Glossary 172 Five year summary 174 Financial calendar IBC Company information IBC The enormous global grocery market presents a significant market opportunity ONLINE results13.
com Stock Code: OCDO Glossary 2012 Code means the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Directors means the directors of the Company whose names are set out FRC September 2012, as in force from time to time.
on pages 54 and 55, or the directors of Ocado Limited from time to time as the context may require.
2014 ESOS means the proposed Ocado 2014 Executive Share Ownership Scheme.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules means the disclosure rules and transparency rules made under Part VI of the Financial Services and Active customers means customers who have shopped with Ocado in Markets Act 2000 as amended.
DPV means deliveries per van per week.
Administrative expenses means all IT costs, advertising and marketing expenditure, employment costs of all head office functions, which include Each means a measure of an individual retail product.
legal, finance, human resources, marketing and procurement, rent and EBITDA means the non-GAAP measure which Ocado has defined as other property-related costs for the head office, all fees for professional earnings before net finance costs, taxation, depreciation, amortisation, services and the depreciation, amortisation and impairment associated impairment and exceptional items.
with head office IT equipment, software, fixtures and fittings and expenses relating to the Groups share schemes.
EBT as relating to the Income statement means earnings before tax.
As relating to share schemes means employee benefit trust.
Admission means the admission of the ordinary shares of the Company to the premium listing segment of the Official List and to trading on the EBT Trustee means the trustee from time to time of the employee benefit London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities which occurred trust established for the purposes of the JSOS, currently Appleby Trust on 26 July 2010.
AGM means the annual general meeting of the Company, which will be ESOS means the Ocado 2001 Executive Share Ownership Scheme.
held on 7 May 2014 at 3pm at One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY.
Exceptional items means items that due to their material and nonAnnual Incentive Plan or AIP means the Executive Director incentive plan recurring nature have been classified separately in order to draw them to for the Group applicable to a particular Financial year.
the attention of the reader of the financial statements.
Articles means the articles of association of the Company.
Executive Directors means Tim Steiner, Jason Gissing, Neill Abrams, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Mark Richardson.
Board means the board of directors of the Company or of Ocado Limited from time to time as the context may require.
Financial period means the 52 week period, or 53 week period where relevant, ending the closest to Sunday to 30 November.
Block Listing Facility means the facility whereby a number of shares have been block listed but will only be allotted when options under ESOS, Financial year or FY see Financial period.
Sharesave or non-employee share schemes have been exercised.
FRC means the Financial Reporting Council.
Chairmans Share Matching Award means a one-off award of shares to GHG means greenhouse gas es.
Sir Stuart Rose, made in May 2013.
GIP means the proposed Growth Incentive Plan.
Companies Act means the Companies Act 2006.
Gross sales means sales net of returns, including charges for delivery, Company means Ocado Group plc, a company incorporated in England before deducting relevant voucher offers and value added tax.
and Wales with registered number 07098618 whose registered office is at Titan Court, 3 Bishops Square, Hatfield Business Park, Hatfield, HMRC means Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
IAS means International Accounting Standard s. Corporate website means www.
IFRS IC means International Financial Reporting Standards CSR means Corporate Social Responsibility.
CSTM means Customer Service Team Member: the title given to our IFRS means International Financial Reporting Standard s. customer facing delivery driver.
IGD means the Institute of Grocery Distribution.
Customer Fulfilment Centre or CFC means a dedicated highly automated IP means Intellectual Property.
warehouse used for the operation of the business.
There are two CFCs: CFC1 in Hatfield and CFC2 in Dordon.
John Lewis means John Lewis plc, the parent company of Waitrose.
John Lewis plc was incorporated in England and Wales with registered Delivery Pass see Smart Pass.
number 233462 and its registered office is 171 Victoria Street, London, Distribution costs means all the costs incurred, excluding product costs, SW1E 5NN.
to the point of sale, usually the customers home.
This includes the payrollJSOS means the Groups Joint Share Ownership Scheme.
It comprises related expenses for the picking, dispatch and delivery of product sold to three issues called JSOS1, JSOS2 and JSOS3.
the point of sale, the cost of making those deliveries, including fuel, tolls, maintenance of vehicles, the operating costs of the properties required for KPI means key performance indicators.
the picking, dispatch and onward delivery operations and all associated LIBOR means London Interbank Offered Rate.
depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, call centre costs and payment processing charges.
Life Guarantee means the minimum product life guaranteed by Ocado.
