Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements 1 Corporate information Ophir Energy plc the Company and ultimate parent of the Group is a public limited company incorporated, domiciled and listed in England.
Itsregistered offices are located at 50 New Bond Street, London W1S 1BJ.
Ophir Energys business is the development of offshore and deepwater oil and gas exploration assets.
The Company has an extensive and diverse portfolio of exploration interests across East and West Africa.
The Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2014 and the Statement of Financial Position was signed on the Boards behalf by Nicholas Smith and Nick Cooper.
2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies 2.1 Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except for revaluation of certain derivative instruments measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars rounded to the nearest thousand dollars $000 exceptas otherwise indicated.
Comparative figures for the period to 31 December 2012 are for the year ended on that date.
New and amended accounting standards and interpretations The Group has adopted the following relevant new and amended IFRS and IFRIC interpretations as of 1 January 2013: IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendment IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement These new and amended standards and interpretations have not materially affected amounts reported or disclosed in the Groups financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Standards and interpretations issued but not yet effective The following standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards relevant to the Group are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group.
The Group expects to adopt these standards in accordance with the effective dates.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
As a consequence of the new IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements and the new IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in Other Entities, IAS 27 has been revised with the revisions limited to the accounting for investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associates in separate financial statements: IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, effective for the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IAS 28 sets out the requirements for the application of the equity method of accounting for investments in associates and joint ventures: IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, clarifies the requirements foroffsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet: IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This amendment addresses the disclosure ofinformation about the recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests inJoint Ventures and overhauls the accounting for joint ventures now called joint arrangements and in particular removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities JCE using proportionate consolidation and instead requires JCEs that are classified as a joint venture under IFRS11 to be accounted for using the equity method: IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IFRS 12 requires extensive disclosures enabling users of financial statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on the entitys financial statements: Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12.
These amendments are effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and provide additional transition relief to IFRSs 10, 11 and 12, limiting the requirement to provide adjusted comparative information to only the preceding comparative period: and 102 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements Improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 cycle, effective for the annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
These amendments are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
Key relevant amendments are to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements which clarifies the disclosure requirements around comparative information, IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, which clarifies that the major spare parts and servicing equipment that meet the definition of property, plant and equipment are not inventory and IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation which removes existing income tax requirements from IAS 32 and requires entities to apply the requirements in IAS 12 to any income tax arising from distributions to equity holders.
The following standards and interpretations, relevant to the Company, have been issued by the IASB, but have not yet been endorsed by the EUfor their application to become mandatory: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
IFRS 9 amends the classification andmeasurement of financial instruments: and Amendments to IAS 19 and improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 and 2011-2013 cycles, with an effective date for the annual accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2014.
The Group has reviewed the impact to financial reporting for the changes arising from IFRS 10, 11 and 12 and they are not expected to materially affect amounts reported or disclosed in the Groups financial statements.
The impact of the adoption of other standards noted above has not been assessed by the Group.
2.2 Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn upto31 December each year.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities and is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way of contractual agreement.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising therefrom, are eliminated.
A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without loss of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it i derecognises the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary: ii derecognises the carrying amount ofany non-controlling interest: iii derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded in equity: iv recognises the fair value ofthe consideration received: v recognises the fair value of any investment retained: and vi recognises any surplus or deficit in profit and loss: vii reclassifies the parents share of components previously recognised in other comprehensive income to profit and loss or retained earnings, asappropriate.
Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests represent the equity in a subsidiary not attributable, directly and indirectly, to the parent company and is presented separately within the Consolidated statement of financial position, separately from equity attributable to owners of the parent.
Losses within asubsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling interest even if that results in a deficit balance.
2.3 Summary of significant accounting policies a Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation E&E expenditure relates to costs incurred on the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral reserves and resources.
The Group applies the successful efforts method of accounting for the E&E costs as permitted by IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
All costs incurred after the rights to explore an area have been obtained, such as licence acquisition costs, geological and geophysical costs and other direct costs of E&E, are accumulated and capitalised as E&E assets, in well, field or licence-specific exploration cost centres as appropriate pending determination.
Costs other than payments to acquire the legal right to explore incurred prior to acquiring rights to explore and general exploration costs notspecific to any particular licence or prospect are charged directly to the income statement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued E&E assets are not amortised prior to the determination of the results of exploration activity.
At completion of evaluation activities, if technical and commercial feasibility is demonstrated, then, following recognition of commercial reserves, the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset will be reclassified as a development and production asset, subject to the carrying value of the relevant E&E asset being assessed for impairment.
If, on completion of evaluation of prospects or licences, it is not possible to determine technical feasibility and commercial viability or if the legal right to explore expires or if the Group decides not to continue E&E activity, then the costs of such unsuccessful E&E are written off to the income statement in the period of that determination.
The carrying value of E&E assets is reviewed for impairment at least once a year or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Where this is indicated, management will assess the recoverability of the carrying value of the asset.
This review is based upon a status report confirming that E&E drilling is still under way or firmly planned or that it has been determined, or work is under way to determine that the discovery is economically viable.
This assessment is based on a range of technical and commercial considerations and confirming that sufficient progress is being made to establish development plans and timing.
If no future activity is planned, or the value of the asset cannot be recovered via successful development or sale, the balance of the E&E costs are written off in the income statement and statement of comprehensiveincome.
The Group may enter into farm-in or farm-out arrangements, where it may introduce partners to share in the development of an asset.
Fortransactions involving assets at the exploration and evaluation phase, the Group adopts an accounting policy as permitted by IFRS 6 such that the Group does not record any expenditure made on its behalf under a carried interest by a farm-in partner the farmee.
Where applicable past costs are reimbursed, any cash consideration received directly from the farmee is credited against costs previously capitalised in relation to the whole interest with any excess accounted for by the farmor as a gain on disposal.
Farmed out oil and gas properties are accounted for inaccordance with IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
b Intangibles Intangible assets are initially measured at cost.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful life and tested for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The review is based upon a status report detailing the Groups intention for development of the asset.
Where it cannot be recovered via successful development or sale, all costs are writtenoff.
c Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any non-controlling interest NCI in the acquiree.
Foreach business combination, the acquirer elects to measure the components of NCI that are present ownership interests that entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of liquidation either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires abusiness, itassesses the assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
Those oil & gas reserves that are able to be reliably measured are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Other potential reserves, resources and rights, for which fair values cannot be reliably measured, are not recognised.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree isremeasured to fair value as at the acquisition date being the date the acquirer gains control through profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit orloss or as change to other comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it is not remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
104 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements d Goodwill Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest NCI over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower thanthe fair value of the identifiable net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned tothoseunits.
Where goodwill forms part of a CGU and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually as at 31 December and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the CGU or reportable segment is compared with its recoverable amount.
In determining whether goodwill is impaired the Group reviews the status of projects including recent farm-out transactions and whether the Groups intention is to further develop the Groups various assets.
e Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment, which comprises furniture and fittings and computer equipment, is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment calculated using the straight line method at rates to write off the cost, less estimated residual value based on prices prevailing at the statement of financial position date, of each asset over expected useful lives ranging from 3to10years.
f Investments in subsidiaries The Company holds monetary balances with its subsidiaries of which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future.
Such balances are considered to be part of the Companys net investment in its subsidiaries.
The carrying values of investments in subsidiaries are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Cash and short-term deposits Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity ofthree months or less, but excludes any restricted cash.
Restricted cash is not available for use by the Group and therefore is not considered highly liquid for example cash set aside to cover rehabilitation obligations.
For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Short-term investments Short term investments in the statement of financial position comprise cash deposits that are made for varying periods of between three months and 12 months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term investment rate.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value and recoverable amount.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are carried at amortised cost.
Allowance is made when there isobjective evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Evidence on non-recoverability may include indications that the debtor or group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or default or delinquency in repayments.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
The amount of the impairment loss is the receivable carrying amount compared to the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 105 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued iv.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are carried at amortised cost.
They represent liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group prior to the end of the financial year that are unpaid and arise when the Group becomes obligated to make future payments in respect of the purchase of those goods and services.
The amounts are unsecured and are usually paid within 30 days of recognition.
v. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest ratemethod.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when liabilities are derecognised as well as through the amortisation process.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability.
The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
h Inventories Inventories which comprise drilling consumables are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined by using weighted average cost method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of transportation and other related expenses.
i Provisions A provision is recognised when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow ofeconomic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific tothe liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
j Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The Group does not operate its own pension plan but makes pension or superannuation contributions to private funds of its employees which aredefined contribution plans.
The cost of providing such benefits are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
k Employee benefits Salaries, wages, annual leave and sick leave Liabilities for salaries and wages, including non-monetary benefits, annual leave and accumulating sick leave expected to be settled within 12months of the reporting date, are recognised in respect of employees services up to the reporting date.
They are measured at the amounts expected to be paid when the liabilities are settled.
Liabilities for non-accumulating sick leave are recognised when the leave is taken and are measured at the rates paid or payable.
Long service leave The liability for long service leave is recognised and measured at the present value of expected future payments to be made in respect of services provided by employees up to the reporting date using the projected unit credit method.
Consideration is given to expected future wage and salary levels, experience of employee departures and periods of service.
Expected future payments are discounted using market yields at the reporting date on national government bonds with terms to maturity and currencies that match, as closely as possible, the estimated future cash outflows.
l Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
m Leases The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and the arrangement conveys a right to use theasset.
The Group has leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
Such leases are classified asoperating leases and rentals payable are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
106 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements n Interests in joint ventures The Group has a number of contractual arrangements with other parties which represent joint ventures.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake economic activity.
Where a Group company undertakes its activities under joint venture arrangements the Groups share of jointly controlled assets,  income and expenses are included in the financial statements in their respective classification categories.
The Groups interests in joint ventures, which are in the form of jointly controlled assets, are identified in note 26.
The Group has a number of interests in joint ventures, which are considered jointly controlled assets, whereby the venturers have a contractual arrangement that establishes joint control over the economic activities of the asset.
The agreement requires unanimous agreement for financial and operating decisions among the venturers.
The Group recognises its interest in the joint venture using the proportionate consolidation method.
The Group combines its proportionate share of each of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of the joint venture with similar items, linebyline, in its consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements of the joint venture are prepared for the same reporting period asthe Group.
Adjustments are made where necessary to bring the accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
Adjustments are made in the Groups consolidated financial statements to eliminate the Groups share of intragroup balances, transactions and unrealised gains and losses on such transactions between the Group and its joint venture.
Losses on transactions are recognised immediately ifthe loss provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value of current assets or an impairment loss.
The joint venture is proportionately consolidated until the date on which the Group ceases to have joint control over the joint venture.
Upon loss of joint control the Group measures and recognises its remaining investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount of the former joint controlled entity upon loss of joint control and the fair value of the remaining investment and proceeds from disposal are recognised in the income statement.
When the remaining investment constitutes significant influence, it is accounted for as investment inanassociate.
o Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received and receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
The specific recognition criteria described below must also be met before revenue is recognised: Interest income Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest rate method, that is, the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Interest income is included infinance income in the consolidated income statement and statement of comprehensive income.
p Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to be prepared for their intended use, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the assets aresubstantially ready for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
q Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and isrecognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined with reference to the market value of the underlying shares using a pricing model appropriate to the circumstances which requires judgements as to the selection of both the valuation model and inputs.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition oranon-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other vesting conditions are satisfied.
At each statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated on the basis of the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since the previous statement of financial position date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified or a new award is designated as replacing a cancelled or settled award, the cost based on the original award terms continues to be recognised over the original vesting period.
In addition, an expense is recognised over the remainder of the new vesting period for the incremental fair value of any modification, based on the difference between the fair value of the original award and the fair value of the modified award, both as measured on the date of the modification.
No reduction is recognised if this difference isnegative.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any cost not yet recognised in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
Any compensation paid up to the fair value of the award at the cancellation orsettlement date is deducted from equity, with any excess over fair value being treated as an expense in the income statement.
For equity-settled share-based payment transactions with third parties, the goods or services received are measured at the date of receipt byreference to their fair value with a corresponding entry in equity.
If the Group cannot reliably estimate the fair value of the goods or services received, their value is measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments granted.
r Foreign currency translation The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in US Dollars, which is also the parent companys functional currency.
The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined on an individual basis according to the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the spot exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement offinancial position date.
All exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the spot exchange rate ruling as at the date of the initial transaction.
Non-monetary items measured ata revalued amount in a foreign currency are translated using the spot exchange rate ruling at the date when the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations whose functional currency is other than that of the presentation currency of the Ophir Energy Group are translated into the presentation currency, at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Income and expenses are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the period.
The resulting exchange differences are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
s Income taxes Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, basedontaxrates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
Current income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise income taxisrecognised in the income statement.
Deferred tax Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions: where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the timing ofthereversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at the end of each reporting period and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will be available to allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
108 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements Deferred income tax is charged or credited directly to equity if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity.
Otherwise deferred income tax is recognised in the income statement.
t Impairment The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an intangible asset or item of property, plant & equipment may be impaired.
If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing is required, the Group estimates the assets recoverable amount.
Anassets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cash-generating units CGU fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups ofassets.
When the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down toits recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
In determining fair value less costs tosell, recent market transactions are taken into account, if available.
If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model isused.
These calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded subsidiaries or other available fair valueindicators.
The Group bases its impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations, which are prepared separately for each of the Groups CGUs to which the individual assets are allocated.
These budgets and forecast calculations generally cover a period of five years.
For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash flows after the fifth year.
Impairment losses of continuing operations, including impairment on inventories, are recognised in the income statement in expense categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset, except for a property previously revalued and the revaluation was taken to other comprehensive income.
In this case, the impairment is also recognised in other comprehensive income up to the amount of any previousrevaluation.
2.4 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities, and the accompanying disclosures, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements.
Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based on managements experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount ofassets or liabilities affected in future periods.
The Group has identified the following areas where significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are required.
Further information on each of these areas and how they impact the various accounting policies are described below and also in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
Exploration and Evaluation assets 2.3 a The application of the Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure requires judgement to determine whether future economic benefits are likely, from either future exploration, development or asset sale, or whether activities have not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
Management is also required to assess impairment in respect of exploration and evaluation assets.
The exploration and evaluation assets note discloses the carrying value of such assets.
The triggering events for impairment are defined in IFRS 6.
In making the assessment, management is required to make judgements on the status of each project and assumptions about future events and circumstances, in particular, whether an economically viable extraction operation can be established.
Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new information becomesavailable.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, a formal estimate of the recoverable amount is made.
The assessments require the use of estimates and assumptions such as long-term oil prices, discount rates, operating costs, future capital requirements, decommissioning costs, exploration potential, and reserves.
These estimates and assumptions are subject to risk and uncertainty.
Therefore, there is a possibility that changes incircumstances will impact these projections, which may impact the recoverable amount of assets and or CGUs.
If, after expenditure is capitalised, information becomes available suggesting that recovery of the expenditure is unlikely, the relevant capitalised amount is written off in the income statement and statement of comprehensive income in the period when the new information becomesavailable.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 109 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Basis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Share-based payments 2.3 q Management is required to make assumptions and use their judgement when determining the inputs used to value share-based payment arrangements made during the year.
Details of the inputs adopted when valuing share-based payment arrangements can be found in the sharebased compensation note.
Management bases these assumptions on observable market data such as the Groups share price history and risk free interest rates offered on Government bonds.
Recovery of deferred tax assets 2.3 s Judgement is required to determine whether deferred tax assets are recognised in the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax assets, including those arising from unutilised tax losses, require management to assess the likelihood that the Group will generate sufficient taxable profits in future periods, in order to utilise recognised deferred tax assets.
Assumptions about the generation of future taxable profits depend on managements estimates of future cash flows.
These estimates are based on forecast cash flows from operations and judgement about the application of existing tax laws in each jurisdiction.
To the extent that future cash flows and taxable income differ significantly from estimates, theability of the Group to realise deferred tax assets could be impacted.
The Group establishes tax provisions, based on reasonable estimates, for possible consequences of audits by the tax authorisities of the respective countries in which it operates.
The amount of such provisions is based on various factors, such as experience with previous tax audits and differing interpretations of tax regulations by the taxable entity and the responsible tax authority.
3 Operating loss The Group operating loss from continuing operations is stated after charging: a Exploration expenses Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Pre licence exploration costs 2,351 4,521 Inventory write down 386 Exploration expenditure written off 54,006 56,743 4,521 Provision for impairment 172,360 229,103 4,521 b General & administration expenses include: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Operating lease payments minimum lease payments 2,376 2,332 Share-based compensation charge 9,094 7,718 11,470 10,050 c Other expenses Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Loss on disposal of assets 11 635 Depreciation of property, plant & equipment 1,049 1,041 Impairment of goodwill 36,297 Provision for exiting contract 9,000 46,357 1,676 110 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements 4 Finance income Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Finance income Interest income on short-term bank deposits 2,410 1,009 Net foreign currency exchange gains 24,669 627 27,079 1,636 During the period the Group has reviewed the classification of interest income and has concluded that it is more appropriately classified as finance income.
Previously, such income had been classified as revenue.
The classification of interest income as finance income is considered by the Group to be consistent with industry standards and facilitates accurate comparison of Group results with industry peers.
Prior year amounts have been reclassified for consistency with the current period presentation.
These reclassifications had no effect on the previously reported loss from operations before taxation or cash flows.
5 Segment information The Group operates in one segment being the exploration and evaluation of oil & gas related projects located in Africa.
6 Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided tothGroup.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Paid Payable to Ernst & Young LLP Audit of the financial statements 350 302 Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 85 71 Total audit services 435 373 Audit related assurance services 189 156 Corporate finance services 533 482 1,157 1,011 Paid Payable to auditor if not Ernst & Young LLP Local statutory audits of subsidiaries 8 15 Taxation services 4 1 Other services 3 2 15 18 1,172 1,029 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 111 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Staff costs and Directors emoluments a Staff costs Employee costs including payments to Directors during the year comprised: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Salaries and wages 21,834 19,400 Social security costs 2,759 2,519 Contributions to pension plans superannuation funds 1,127 969 Share-based payments note 25 9,094 7,718 34,814 30,606 b Key management The table below sets out the details of the emoluments of the Groups key management including Directors: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Aggregate compensation: Salaries and wages 8,832 8,347 Social security costs 1,492 823 Contributions to pensions superannuation funds 367 321 Compensation for loss of office 298 992 Share-based payments note 25 7,386 7,453 18,375 17,936 Key management emoluments above excludes aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options of $3,158,426 2012: nil.
c Directors emoluments Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 i Aggregate compensation: Salaries and wages 2,744 2,481 Social security costs 1,149 345 Contributions to pensions superannuation funds 203 146 Bonuses 2,244 2,370 Compensation for loss of office 298 992 Other benefits 39 8 6,677 6,342 Directors emoluments above excludes aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options of $3,158,426 2012: nil.
112 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 ii Share-based payments note 25 5,495 5,544 iii Amounts paid to Director-related entities not included in i above note 30 10 1 Number of Directors to whom superannuation or pension benefits accrued during the year 4 3 d Average number of persons employed full time equivalents : Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 CEO 1 1 Exploration and technical 33 22 Commercial and support 58 30 92 53 8 Taxation a Taxation credit Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Current income tax: UK corporation tax 1,530 UK current tax adjustment in respect of prior periods 63 Foreign tax 49 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 10 Total current income tax charge credit 1,530 4 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 36,190 224 Tax credit in the income statement 34,660 228 b Reconciliation of the total tax credit The tax benefit not recognised in the income statement is reconciled to the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.25% 2012: 24.5%.
The differences are reconciled below: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Loss on operations before taxation 280,467 40,943 Loss on operations before taxation multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 23.25% 2012: 24.5% 65,209 10,031 Non-deductible expenditure 14,517 2,919 Share-based payments 953 495 Expenditure in tax exempt jurisdictions 2,662 173 Unrecognised deferred tax assets 12,417 6,615 Adjustment in respect of prior year periods 53 Total tax credit in the income statement 34,660 228 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 113 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 8 Taxation continued c Deferred income tax Deferred income tax balances at 31 December relate to the following: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Deferred tax liabilities: Property, plant and equipment Fair value adjustment in respect of exploration assets 20,806 56,996 Revenue tax losses 20,806 56,996 d Unrecognised tax losses The Group has gross tax losses arising in the UK of $68,623,000 2012: $68,623,000 and Australia $3,400,365 2012: $3,760,667 thatare available to carry forward indefinitely to offset against future taxable profits of the companies in which the losses arose.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these losses as there is not sufficient certainty that taxable income will be realised in the future due to the nature of the Groups international exploration activities and the long lead times in either developing or otherwise realising exploration assets.
e Other unrecognised temporary differences The Group has other net unrecognised temporary differences in the various African countries where we are active totalling $244,620,000 2012:$190,976,200 in respect of provisions and exploration expenditure for which deferred tax assets have not been recognised.
f Change in corporation tax rate Deferred tax has been calculated at the rates substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
The standard rate of UK corporation tax in the year changed from 24% to 23% with effect from 1 April 2013 and further rate changes to 21% from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015 were substantively enacted as part of the Finance Bill 2013 on 2 July 2013.
Any UK deferred tax that is recognised is therefore recognised at the reduced rate of 20%.
Deferred tax in Kenya and Tanzania is provided for at the statutory rates of 30% 2012: 30%.
9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
The following reflects the income and share data used in the basic earnings per share computations: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Earnings Earnings for the purposes of basic and diluted earnings per share Loss for the year 245,807 40,715 Less non-controlling interest 30 106 Loss attributable to equity holders of the parent 245,777 40,609 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 No.
Number of shares Basic weighted average number of shares 546,885,741 387,194,504 There were 10,111,578 2012: 11,131,204 outstanding share options and warrants at 31 December 2013 which were anti-dilutive.
87,227 ordinary shares of 0.25p each on exercise of options and warrants have been issued between the year end 31 December 2013 and the date of approval of these financial statements.
114 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements 10 Exploration and evaluation assets Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Cost Balance at the beginning of the year 961,713 327,060 1 Additions 389,076 415,484 2 Expenditure written off 54,006 3 Acquisition of subsidary 228,000 4 Disposals 8,831 Balance at the end of the year 1,296,783 961,713 Provision for impairment Balance at the beginning of the year 5 Additional allowance 172,360 Balance at the end of the year 172,360 Net book value Balance at the beginning of the year 961,713 327,060 Balance at the end of the year 1,124,423 961,713 1 Additions in the year include exploration activities in: Tanzania Blocks 1,3 and 4 $266.2 million, Tanzania Block 7 $61.8 million and EquatorialGuinea Block R $16.3 million.
Additions in the prior year include exploration activities in: Tanzania Blocks 1,3 and 4 $159.0 million, Equatorial Guinea Block R $144.1 million, Kenya Block L9 $34.1 million and Tanzania East Pande $23.6 million.
2 Expenditure written off in the year comprises: Madagascar Marovoay Block $19.0 million, Kenya Block L15 $17.4 million, Ghana Accra Block $14.3million and Congo Marine IX Block $3.3 million.
The Group has relinquished its interest in these assets refer to note 26 for further detail.
3 The amount of $228.0 million was recognised on the acquisition of Dominion Petroleum Limited note 12.
4 Net book value of 46.75% interest in Block V in the Albertine Graben in the Democratic Republic of Congo sold for $8.7 million on 20 July 2012.
5 Allowance for impairment of $172.4 million comprises: Impairment loss of $167.3 million in respect of Tanzania Block 7.
The trigger for the impairment test was the conclusion of the Mlinzi Mbali-1 drilling operations which did not encounter live hydrocarbons and called into question the economic recovery of the block.
The cash-generating unit CGU applied forthe purpose of the impairment assessment is the block and the recoverable amount was based on managements estimate of value in use: and Impairmemt loss of $5.1 million in respect of AGC Profond Block.
The trigger for impairment was managements assessment that no further expenditure on exploration and evaluation of hydrocarbons in the Block was budgeted or planned within the current licence term.
The CGU applied for the purpose of the impairment assessment is the block and the recoverable amount was based on managements estimate of value in use.
The Group generally estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model.
Future cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax discount rateof 10%.
Adjustments to cash flows are made to reflect the risks specific to the CGU.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 115 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Goodwill Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Balance at the beginning of the year 57,165 Acquisition of subsidary note 12 57,389 1 Impairment of goodwill 36,297 2 Disposal 224 Balance at the end of the year 20,868 57,165 1 A goodwill impairment loss of $36.3 million was recognised in respect of Tanzania Block 7.
The impairment loss was primarily driven by the reduction in the deferred tax liability attributable to the Block, following the current year impairment loss which reduced the Blocks carrying value refer to note 10.
2 Unwinding of goodwill on disposal of interest in Block V in the Albertine Graben in the Democratic Republic of Congo.
The goodwill balance is largely the result of recognising a deferred tax liability on the fair value uplifts of assets acquired through the Dominionacquisition.
Allocation of goodwill Goodwill has been allocated to a cash-generating unit CGU or groups of CGUs no larger than the reportable segment which are expected tobenefit from the related acquisition.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group off assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
This is usually considered a single operation or in some cases a number of operations that are in close geographic proximity or share operational efficiencies.
The carrying values of goodwill by CGU are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Tanzania Block 7 107 Kenya Block L9 62 62 62 169 The following goodwill balances result from the requirement on acquisition to recognise a deferred tax liability, calculated as the difference between the tax effect of the fair value of the acquisition assets and liabilities and their tax bases.
For the purposes of testing this goodwill for impairment, any of the related deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquisition that remain at balance date are treated as part of the relevant CGU or group of CGUs.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Tanzania Block 7 36,190 Kenya Block L9 20,806 20,806 Deferred tax liability 20,806 56,996 Balance at the end of the year 20,868 57,165 Impairment test for goodwill The Group performs goodwill impairment testing on an annual basis at reporting date.
The most recent test was carried out at 31 December 2013.
In determining whether goodwill is impaired the Group reviewed the status of projects including recent farm-out transactions and whether the Groups intention is to further develop the Groups various assets.
The Group recognised an impairment expense of $36.3 million 2012: nil for the year ended 31 December 2013 refer to note 3 c and note 10.
12 Business combinations Prior year acquisition The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Dominion Petroleum Limited Dominion, an AIM quoted group of companies operating in the oil and gas exploration industry on 2 February 2012 the acquisition date.
The Group announced that the scheme of arrangement approved by Dominions shareholders on 12 December 2011 was sanctioned by the Supreme Court in Bermuda effective on 2 February 2012.
116 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements As a result of the acquisition the Group acquired a portfolio of assets in offshore Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and DRC, two of which were operated by Ophir and which strengthened the Groups position as a leading oil and gas explorer in the East African offshore play.
The financial statements include the statement of financial position of Dominion including fair value adjustments.
Revenues and expenses from the acquired assets are consolidated with effect from the acquisition date.
The purchase consideration of $220,221,437 was satisfied by a combination of cash and equity.
The Group issued 38,790,455 new shares inconsideration for the entire share capital of Dominion.
The fair value of the shares was the published price of the shares of the Group at the acquisition date which was 2.951 $4.68.
Therefore, the fair value of the share consideration given was $181,539,329.
The remaining purchase consideration amount of $38,682,108 was paid in cash.
Transaction costs relating to the acquisition of $3,709,030 were expensed and included inadministration costs.
The fair value assessment of the Dominion assets and liabilities acquired has been reviewed in accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3 BusinessCombinations.
Details of the Group accounting policies in relation to business combinations are contained in note 2.3 c. The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of Dominion as at the date of acquisition and the corresponding carrying values immediately before the acquisition were: Fair value recognised 2 February 2012 $000 Exploration & evaluation assets note 10 228,000 Property, plant & equipment 441 Cash 15,908 Other current assets 7,063 Trade payables 1,612 Taxes payable 588 Other liabilities 29,300 Deferred tax liability 57,220 Net assets 162,692 Non-controlling interest 140 Total net assets acquired 162,832 Goodwill arising on acquisition note 11 57,389 Total purchase consideration 220,221 Purchase consideration: Fair value of shares issued 181,539 Cash paid 38,682 Total purchase consideration 220,221 Goodwill of $57.4 million arose on acquisition.
The goodwill on the transaction principally arose as a result of the requirement to recognise $57.2million of deferred income tax liabilities representing the tax effect of the differences between the fair value and the tax bases of assets acquired.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The balance of the goodwill being $0.2 million was attributable to the synergies expected to arise from Ophirs current operations which arebased in the same East African offshore play as other exploration and evaluation assets acquired.
From the date of acquisition to 31 December 2012 Dominion contributed $12,268 to Group revenue and $9,819,734 to Group loss.
Ifthecombination had taken place at the beginning of the year, Dominions contribution to Group revenue and loss for the period to31 December 2012 would have been $22,268 and $13,970,602 respectively.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 117 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Property, plant and equipment Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Office furniture and equipment Cost Balance at the beginning of the year 6,497 5,431 Foreign currency translation 772 90 Additions 2,016 1,010 Acquisition of subsidiary 441 Disposals 1,955 475 Balance at the end of the year 5,786 6,497 Depreciation Balance at the beginning of the year 4,050 3,226 Foreign currency translation 609 59 Depreciation charge for the year 1,049 1,037 Disposals 1,941 272 Balance at the end of the year 2,549 4,050 Net book value Balance at the beginning of the year 2,447 2,205 Balance at the end of the year 3,237 2,447 14 Financial assets Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Non-current Security deposits Rental properties 3,347 1,562 1 Security deposits Exploration commitments 1,426 9,031 4,773 10,593 1 Floating interest deposits pledged to third parties or banks as security in relation to the Groups exploration commitments.
There are no receivables that are past due or impaired.
15 Inventory Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Drilling consumables 25,890 12,811 118 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements 16 Trade and other receivables Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Trade and other debtors 6,544 8,726 Prepayments 1,692 774 8,236 9,500 All debtors are current.
Trade and other debtors primarily relate to receivables from joint venture partners.
Due to the short-term nature of these receivables, their carrying value is assumed to approximate their fair value.
17 Cash and cash equivalents Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Cash 326,764 227,743 Short-term deposits 179,998 506,762 227,743 Cash at banks earn interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is $506.8 million 2012: $227.7 million.
18 Investments Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Short-term investments 159,921 Short-term investments consist of cash deposit accounts that are made for varying periods of between three months and 12 months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group and earn interest at the respective short-term investment rates.
The fair value of short-term investments is $159.9 million 2012: nil.
19 Trade and other payables Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Trade payables 3,784 17,648 Accruals 8,711 27,324 Payables in relation to joint venture partners 108,292 74,444 120,787 119,416 Trade payables are unsecured and are usually paid within 30 days of recognition.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 119 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Provisions Employee Litigation and Other Employee long annual leave other claims provisions service leave Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 At 1 January 2013 Current 833 833 Non-current 277 277 Arising during the year 1,039 24,700 10,000 147 35,886 Utilised 739 739 Amounts released 462 187 649 At 31 December 2013 Current 671 24,700 10,000 35,371 Non-current 237 237 Employee annual leave and employee long service leave These provisions are made for statutory or contractual employee entitlements.
It is anticipated that these costs will be incurred when employees choose to take their benefits and as such there is an inherent uncertainty as to the timing of the relevant outflows required by the provisions.
Litigation and other claims Litigation and other claims consist of separate legal matters, including claims arising from trading activities, in various Group companies and at various stages of negotiation.
The majority of any cash outflow from these matters is expected to occur within the next 12 months, although this is dependent on the development of the various legal claims.
In the Directors opinion, after taking appropriate legal advice, the amounts provided at 31 December 2013 represent the best estimate of the expected loss.
Other provision Other provision consists of an amount representing the unavoidable, least net cost of exiting a contract.
The cost is expected to be incurred within the next 12 months.
21 Financial instruments Capital management Capital consists of equity attributable to the equity holders of the parent.
The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure it has sufficient funds to carry out its exploration activities and safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may issue new shares for cash, engage in active portfolio management, or other such restructuring activities as appropriate.
No significant changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Financial risk management The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities comprise trade and other receivables note 16, cash and short-term deposits note 17, short-term investments note 18 and trade and other payables note 19, which arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to manage short-term cash flow and provide finance for the Groups operations.
Details of significant accounting policies and methods adopted in respect of each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in note 2 to these financial statements.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of financial risk and the Board of Directors has established an Audit Committee to assist in the identification and evaluation of significant financial risks.
Where appropriate, consultation is sought with an external advisor todetermine the appropriate response to identified risks.
The Group does not trade in derivatives for speculative purposes.
The main risks that could adversely affect the Groups financial assets, liabilities or future cash flows are credit, interest rate, foreign currency andliquidity risks.
120 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements a Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a third party will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk of third parties is the aggregate of the carrying value of its security deposits, cash and short-term deposits, andtrade and other receivables.
The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties, and as such collateral is not requested nor is it the Groups policy to securitise itstrade and other receivables.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups experience of bad debts has not been significant.
No impairment loss has been recognised at the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
Credit quality of financial assets 1 Equivalent S&P rating Internally rated A-1 and A-2 and No default above above customers Total $000 $000 $000 $000 Year ended 31 December 2013 Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 506,618 144 506,762 Investments 159,921 159,921 Trade and other receivables 8,236 8,236 666,539 8,380 674,919 Non-current financial assets Security deposits 3,342 1,426 5 4,773 3,342 1,426 5 4,773 1 The equivalent S&P rating of the financial assets represents that rating of the counterparty with whom the financial asset is held rather than the rating of the financial asset itself.
1 Equivalent S&P rating Internally rated A-1 and A-2 and No default above above customers Total $000 $000 $000 $000 Year ended 31 December 2012 Current financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 227,743 227,743 Trade and other receivables 9,500 9,500 227,743 9,500 237,243 Non-current financial assets Security deposits 6,063 4,530 10,593 6,063 4,530 10,593 1 The equivalent S&P rating of the financial assets represents that rating of the counterparty with whom the financial asset is held rather than the rating of the financial asset itself.
Credit risk on cash and short-term deposits is managed by limiting the term of deposits to periods of less than 12 months and selecting counterparty financial institutions with reference to long and short-term credit ratings published by Standard & Poors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 121 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instruments continued Fair values The maximum exposure to credit risk is the fair value of security deposits and receivables.
Collateral is not held as security.
The fair values and carrying values of non-current receivables of the Group are as follows: 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value $000 $000 $000 $000 Security deposits 4,773 4,550 10,593 10,578 4,773 4,550 10,593 10,578 The fair values are based on cash flows discounted at a rate reflecting current market rates adjusted for counterparty credit risk.
The fair values ofall other financial assets and liabilities approximate their carrying values.
b Interest rate risk As of 31 December 2013, the Group has no borrowings 2012: nil so interest rate risk is limited to interest receivable on deposits and bankbalances.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rate relates primarily to the Groups cash assets held in short-term cash deposits.
The Board monitors its cash balance on an ongoing basis and liaises with its financiers regularly to mitigate the risk of a fluctuating interest rate.
The benchmark rate used for short-term deposits is US LIBOR.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Financial assets Security deposits 4,773 10,593 Cash and cash equivalents 506,762 227,743 Investments 159,921 Net exposure 671,456 238,336 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonable possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Groups loss before tax through the impact on floating rate deposits and cash equivalent.
The analysis below reflects a reasonably possible change in interest rates compared to 2012.
Effect on loss Effect on loss 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Increase decrease in interest rate $000 $000 0.5% 3,357 1,192 -0.5% 3,357 1,192 The sensitivity in 2013 was maintained at 0.5% as interest rate volatilities remain similar to those in the prior period.
c Foreign currency risk The Group has currency exposures arising from assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and transactions executed in currencies other than the respective functional currencies.
The Group, with the exception of Ophir Services Pty Ltd, have adopted US Dollars as their functional and reporting currencies as this represents the currency of their primary economic environment as the majority of the Groups funding and expenditure is US Dollars.
Ophir Services Pty Ltd has adopted the Australian Dollar as its functional currency.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is managed by holding the majority of its funds in US Dollars, as a natural hedge, with remaining funds being held in Pounds Sterling GBP, Australian Dollars AUD, Euros EUR, Tanzanian Shillings TZS and CFA Franc BEAC XAF tomeet commitments in those currencies.
122 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements As at 31 December 2013, the Groups predominant exposure to foreign exchange rates related to cash and cash equivalents held in Pounds Sterling by companies with US Dollar functional currencies.
At the statement of financial position date, the Group had the following exposure to GBP, XAF, TZS, EUR and AUD foreign currency that is not designated in cash flow hedges: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents AUD 412 357 EUR 293 443 GBP 138,719 34,676 TZS 96 14 XAF 780 306 140,300 35,796 Investments GBP 109,921 250,221 35,796 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables AUD 661 221 EUR 114 GBP 5,207 3,859 5,868 4,194 Net exposure 244,353 31,602 The below table demonstrates the sensitivity to reasonable possible changes in GBP, XAF, TZS, EUR and AUD against the US Dollar exchange rates with all other variables held constant, of the Groups loss before tax and equity due to the foreign exchange translation of monetary assets and liabilities.
Loss before tax Equity Higher lower Higher Lower 2013 2012 2013 2012 $000 $000 $000 $000 US Dollar to GBP 5% 2012: 5% 12,172 1,541 US Dollar to GBP -5% 2012: -5% 12,172 1,541 US Dollar to AUD 5% 2012: 5% 12 7 70 1 US Dollar to AUD -5% 2012: -5% 12 7 70 1 US Dollar to EUR 5% 2012: 5% 15 16 US Dollar to EUR -5% 2012: -5% 15 16 US Dollar to XAF 5% 2012: 5% 39 15 US Dollar to XAF -5% 2012: -5% 39 15 US Dollar to TZS 5% 2012: 5% 5 1 US Dollar to TZS -5% 2012: -5% 5 1 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 123 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instruments continued Significant assumptions used in the foreign currency exposure sensitivity analysis include: Reasonably possible movements in foreign exchange rates were determined based on a review of the last two years historical movements andeconomic forecasters expectations.
The reasonably possible movement was calculated by taking the US Dollar spot rate as at balance date, moving this spot rate by the reasonably possible movements and then re-converting the US Dollar into the respective foreign currency with the new spot rate.
Thismethodology reflects the translation methodology undertaken by the Group.
d Liquidity risk The Group has a liquidity risk arising from its ability to fund its liabilities and exploration commitments.
This risk is managed by ensuring that the Group has sufficient funds to meet those commitments by monitoring the expected total cash inflows and outflows on a continuous basis.
All of the Groups trade creditors and other payables note 19 are payable in less than six months.
The Group did not make use of derivative instruments during the year or during the prior year.
e Disclosure of fair values The carrying value of security deposits and financial liabilities disclosed in the financial statements as at 31 December 2013 approximate their fairvalue.
Fair value hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1 quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly orindirectly: and Level 3 techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 4,550 10,578 4,550 10,578 There were no transfers between levels during the year.
124 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements 22 Share capital Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 a Authorised 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 7,963 7,963 b Called up, allotted and fully paid 400,004,189 ordinary shares in issue at the beginning of the year of 0.25p each 2012: 327,123,901 1,739 1,448 4,081,558 ordinary shares issued of 0.25p each on exercise of options and warrants during the year 16 15 2012: 3,589,833 1 2 187,875,675 ordinary shares issued of 0.25p each during the year 2012: 69,290,455 711 276 591,961,422 ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2012: 400,004,189 2,466 1,739 1 19,850,000 ordinary shares issued in relation to the placement announced by the Company on 4 March 2013 and subsequently issued on 5 March 2013.
Themarket values of the Companys shares on these dates were: 4.62 $6.94 and 5.13 $7.72 respectively.
168,025,675 ordinary shares issued in relation to the 2 for 5 rights issue announced by the Company on 4 March 2013 and subsequently issued on 26 March 2013.
The market values of the Companys shares on these dates were: 4.62 $6.94 and 4.71 $7.17 respectively.
2 38,790,455 ordinary shares were issued as part of the Dominion acquisition note 12.
30,500,000 ordinary shares were issued at 4.95 each in relation to the placement and capital raising announced by the Company on 28 March 2012.
The balances classified as called up, allotted and fully paid share capital represent the nominal value of the total number of issued shares of the Company of 0.25p each.
Fully paid shares carry one vote per share and carry the right to dividends.
23 Reserves Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Other reserves note 24 1,674,719 1,102,957 1 Non-controlling interest 276 246 1,674,443 1,102,711 1 The non-controlling interest relates to Dominion Uganda Ltd, where the Group acquired a 95% shareholding during 2012.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 125 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Reserves 6 Equity 7 component Foreign 2 Options Consolidon currency AccumTotal 1 3 4 5 Share premium Special ation Merger convertible translation ulated other premium reserve reserve reserve reserve bond reserve losses reserves $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 As at 1 January 2012 789,714 26,526 156,435 500 669 5,880 267,112 711,612 Loss for the period, net of tax 40,609 40,609 Other comprehensive income net of tax 28 28 Total comprehensive income net of tax 28 40,609 40,637 New ordinary shares issued to third parties 415,722 415,722 Exercise of options 8,480 8,480 Share issue costs 62 62 Share-based payments 7,718 7,718 As at 1 January 2013 798,256 34,244 156,435 500 415,722 669 5,852 307,721 1,102,957 Loss for the period, net of tax 245,777 245,777 Other comprehensive income net of tax 1,396 1,396 Total comprehensive income net of tax 1,396 245,777 247,173 New ordinary shares issued to third parties 802,517 802,517 Exercise of options 7,324 7,324 Share-based payments 9,094 9,094 5 Transfers within reserves 156,435 156,435 As at 31 December 2013 805,580 43,338 500 1,218,239 669 4,456 397,063 1,674,719 1 The share premium account represents the total net proceeds on issue of the Companys shares in excess of their nominal value of 0.25p per share less amounts transferred to any other reserves.
2 The option premium reserve represents the cost of share-based payments to Directors, employees and third parties.
3 The special reserve was created on reduction of the Companys share capital on 26 July 2007.
Following the Companys subsequent recording of increase in paid up share capital the special reserve has been realised and transferred to accumulated losses.
4 The consolidation reserve represents a premium on acquisition of a minority interest in a controlled entity.
5 In the current year the provisons of the Companies Act 2006 relating to Merger Relief s612 and s613 were applied to the March share placement and rights issue raising through a cash box structure.
This resulted in the creation of a merger reserve, after deducting share issue costs of $34.4 million.
The cash box method of effecting an issue of shares for cash is commonplace and enabled the Company to issue shares without giving rise to a share premium.
In addition, management have reclassified the share premium arising from the April 2012 share placement and the February 2012 Dominion Petroleum Limited acquisition to the merger reserve.
The April 2012 share placement was structured as a cash box transaction and is subject to the provision of the Companies Act 2006 relating to merger relief resulting in the creation of a merger reserve after deducting share issue costs of $7.4 million.
The Dominion Petroleum Limited acquisition is also subject tomerger relief by virtue of Ophir acquiring in excess of 90% of all classes of the acquirees issued share capital in consideration for Ophir share capital.
6 This balance represents the equity component of the convertible bond, net of costs and tax as a result of the separation of the instrument into its debt and equity components.
The bond was converted into 21,661,476 ordinary shares of 0.25p each on 21 May 2008.
7 The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record unrealised exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of entities within the Group that have a functional currency other than US Dollars.
126 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements 25 Share-based compensation a Employee incentive share option plans Ophir Energy Company Foundation Incentive Scheme Ophir Energy Company Foundation Incentive Scheme was established on 12 May 2004 shortly after the formation of the Company to attract new employees on start up.
The plan provided for a total of 1,450,000 options to acquire ordinary shares at 1p per share to be issued to eligible employees.
The Scheme was terminated on 24 November 2005 and all options issued under the scheme have fully vested.
Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan On 5 April 2006 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy Company Limited 2006 Share Option Plan.
Any employee of the Company or any subsidiary or any Director of the Company or any subsidiary who is required to devote substantially the whole of his working time to his duties is eligible to participate under the Plan.
At the grant date the Board of Directors determine the vesting terms, if any, subject to the proviso that no more than one half of the options become exercisable on the first and second anniversaries of the date of grant and any performance conditions are satisfied.
Options have an exercise period of 10 years from the date of grant.
Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan On 26 May 2011 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Share Option Plan.
This was introduced to give awards to Directors and senior management subject to outperforming a comparator group of similarly focused oil and gas exploration companies in terms of shareholder return over a three-year period.
The Plan awards a number of shares to Directors and senior management based on a multiple ofsalary.
However, these shares only vest after a three-year period and the full award is made only if Ophir has performed in the top quartile when compared against a selected peer group of upstream oil and gas companies.
Ophir Energy plc 2012 Deferred Share Plan On 19 June 2012 the Board resolved to establish the Ophir Energy plc Deferred Share Plan 2013 DSP.
The plan was introduced to provide executive management with a means of retaining and incentivising employees.
The structure of the DSP will enable a portion of participants annual bonuses to be deferred into options to acquire ordinary shares in the capital of the Company.
All options issued to date vest after a three-year period.
The DSP operates in conjunction with the Ophir Energy plc Employee Benefit Trust.
The Trust will hold ordinary shares in the Company for the benefit of its employees and former employees, which may then be used, on a discretionary basis, to settle the DSP Awards as and when they areexercised.
No shares have been acquired by the Trust.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of, and movements in, share options during the period for the above schemes.
These are denominated in Pounds Sterling and have been translated to US Dollars using the closing exchange rate for presentation purposes.
2013 2013 2012 2012 Number WAEP Number WAEP Outstanding options at beginning of year 11,131,204 $2.21 1.40 11,752,240 $2.37 1.53 1 Granted during the year 3,453,199 $2.02 1.29 2,458,753 $1.17 0.74 Exercised during the year 4,081,558 $1.78 1.14 2,492,660 $3.17 2.00 Expired during the year 391,267 $0.00 0.00 587,129 $2.12 1.34 Outstanding options at end of year 10,111,578 $1.50 0.96 11,131,204 $2.21 1.40 Exercisable at end of year 4,002,826 $3.63 2.32 4,208,600 $2.63 1.66 1 Awards granted under employee incentive share option plans before 25 March 2013 were increased by a factor of 1.156329 and the exercise price reduced by the same factor to ensure that award holders would not be disadvantaged vis--vis shareholders as a result of the rights issue in March 2013.
Options granted during the year include additional long-term incentive awards and share options of 1,725,972 in respect of this adjustment.
The weighted average exercise price of options granted during the year was $2.02 2012: $1.17.
The range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the end of the year was $0.00 to $8.61 2012: $0.00 to $10.08 with a remaining exercise period in the range of three to nineyears.
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a binomial model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The table below lists the inputs to the model used for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 127 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Share-based compensation continued 2006 Share Option Plan Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 Deferred Share Plan 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Dividend yield % Exercise price $7.18 4.72 $3.96 2.50 nil nil nil nil Share volatility % 50% 50% 45% 52% 50% 50% Risk-free interest rate % 1% 1% 0.4% 0.4% 1% 1% Expected life of option years 2-10 4-9 0-5 3-6 1-3 3 Weighted average share price $7.17 4.71 $8.13 5.13 $6.08 3.97 $8.13 5.13 $7.17 4.71 $8.13 5.13 The expected life of the options is based on historical data and is not necessarily indicative of exercise patterns that may occur.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility is indicative of future trends, which may also not be the actual outcome.
b Share-based payments to suppliers of goods and services 2013 2013 2012 2012 Number WAEP Number WAEP Outstanding options and warrants at beginning of year 1,097,173 $1.13 0.73 Granted during the year Exercised during the year 1,097,173 $1.33 0.84 Outstanding options and warrants at end of year No options or warrants were granted during the year or prior year.
No options or warrants were outstanding at year end 2012: nil.
c Share-based payments to Directors During the year a total of 501,182 2012: 1,532,038 nil cost options to acquire ordinary shares were granted to Directors under the Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Plan.
In addition, options granted under the plan before 25 March 2013 were increased by a factor of 1.156329 and the exercise price reduced by the same factor to ensure that award holders would not be disadvantaged vis--vis shareholders as a result of the rights issue in March 2013.
435,344 additional options were granted under the Ophir Energy Long Term Incentive Plan in respect of this adjustment.
During the year a further total of 360,127 2012: nil options at a weighted average price of 4.72 $7.38 to acquire ordinary shares were granted to Directors under the Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan.
101,612 additional options were granted under the Ophir Energy Company 2006 Share Option Plan in respect of this adjustment.
26 Interests in jointly controlled assets The Group has the following interests in jointly controlled assets: Beneficial Beneficial interest interest 2013 2012 Country Asset % % 1 1 AGC Operator Profond 79.2 44.2 2 2 Marine IX Congo Brazzaville Operator 48.46 Equatorial Guinea Operator Block R 80 80 3 3 Mbeli Gabon Operator 50 50 3 3 Gabon Operator Ntsina 50 50 3 3 Manga Gabon Operator 100 100 3 3 Gabon Operator Gnondo 100 100 4 4 Accra Ghana Operator 20 20 5 5 Kenya Operator Block L9 90 90 5 5 Block L15 Kenya Operator 90 90 6 6 Madagascar Operator Marovoay 80 128 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements Beneficial Beneficial interest interest 2013 2012 Country Asset % % SADR Operator Daora 50 50 Haouza SADR Operator 50 50 SADR Operator Mahbes 50 50 SADR Operator Mijek 50 50 7 7 Somaliland Berbera 25 75 8 8 Tanzania Block 1 40 40 8 8 Block 3 Tanzania 40 40 8 8 Tanzania Block 4 40 40 9 9 Block 7 Tanzania Operator 80 80 10 10 Tanzania Operator East Pande 70 70 11 11 EA4B Uganda 95 95 1 LEntreprise AGC S. A. Entreprise has a 12% carried participating interest, with an option to increase such participating interest by a maximum of 5% in return for the reimbursement of 5% of the costs expended on petroleum operations prior to such date and is carried through the exploration and appraisal phases.
Such interest would be acquired from the other parties on a pro rata basis.
Noble Energy and Rocksource assigned their respective participating interests to OphirProfond on 31 December 2012.
The assignment was approved by the AGC on 22 May 2013.
Following the approval, Ophirs participating interest increased from 44.2% to 79.2%.
2 On 27 June 2013, the Group officially notified the Government of its decision not to enter the second term of the Block Marine IX PSC.
The Group formally exited Marine IX Block on 18 September 2013.
3 The Government of Gabon has the option to participate in the petroleum operations through a 10% participating interest in Mbeli Marin, Ntsina Marin and Gnondo Marin: and a 15% participating interest in Manga Marin.
Such interest would be acquired from the joint venture parties on a pro rata basis.
Farm-out arrangement On 18 December 2013, the Group announced that it had entered into a comprehensive farm-out agreement with OMV Exploration & Production GmbH OMV covering its deepwater offshore blocks in Gabon.
Under the terms of the agreement, OMV will acquire 30% non-operated interests in the Manga and Gnondo Blocks and 10% non-operated interests in the Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks.
On completion, the Groups retained stakes will be 70% operated interests in the Manga and Gnondo Blocks and 40% operated interests in the Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks.
In consideration OMV will pay past costs and a share of 1 the well costs on the Padouck Deep, Affanga Deep and Okala wells, 2 the cost of two additional wells and 3 the cost of 3D seismic surveys which are planned across the Blocks.
Further conditional sums are payable in the event of success with the Padouck Deep orOkalawells.
Completion of this transaction is conditional on approval by the Government of Gabon.
4 The Groups effective interest is 18% pursuant to the carried 10% interest of the Government of Ghana.
The Government of Ghana may also elect to acquire anadditional interest up to a further 15% in each development and production area.
Farm-in arrangement In the prior year, the Group entered into a farm-in arrangement with TAP Oil Ghana Limited, Afex Oil Ghana Limited, Vitol Upstream Accra Limited and Rialto Energy Ghana Limited to share the costs and risks associated with exploration activities in the Offshore Accra Contract Area.
As a result of the farm-in transaction the Group acquired a 18% beneficial interest 20% paying interest and operatorship of the block in return for a payment of $1.8 million relating to back costs.
On 16 December 2013, the Group submitted a notice of resignation as Operator to the Joint Venture and in accordance with the Operating Agreement will remain Operator until 15 April 2014.
On 17 December 2013, the Group submitted a letter to GNPC and the Ministry of Energy notifying them of its intention to withdraw as Operator and from the block.
5 The Group currently has a 90% participating interest with the Government of Kenya having a 10% carried interest.
The Group is currently in advanced negotiations to offer up to 40% of its interest in Block L9 to third parties.
On 19 December 2013, the Group formally notified the Ministry of Energy & Petroleum that it had elected not to enter the next Exploration Phase of the Block L15 PSC.
Accordingly the Block L15 PSC will expire on 3 January 2014.
6 On 3 September 2013, the Group officially notified the Government of its intention to relinquish its participating interest and operatorship in the Marovoay Block inMadagascar.
The Group formally exited Marovoay Block on 31 October 2013.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 129 Consolidated Financial Statements Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Interests in jointly controlled assets continued 7 The Government of Somaliland has a 10% back in right, exercisable within 60 days of a commercial discovery.
Farm-out arrangement On 8 September 2013, the Group reduced its participating interest from 75% to 25% by entering into a farm-out arrangement with RAK Gas LLC for a 50% participating interest and operatorship in the Berbera Blocks SL9 and SL12, in return for a carry of Ophirs remaining 25% share in a planned seismic programme.
8 The Tanzanian Petroleum Development Corporation TPDC has a 12% back in right in each of Blocks 1, 3 and 4 and a further 3% back in right in each of Blocks 3 and 4 following a declaration of commerciality.
Farm-out arrangement On 14 November 2013, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell a 20% interest in Tanzanian Blocks 1, 3 and 4 to Pavilion Energy.
The sale was approved by Ophirs shareholders on 16 December 2013.
Following the disposal, Ophirs participating interest will be 20%.
9 The TPDC has a 15% back in right in Block 7.
10 The TPDC has a 20% back in right the East Pande Block exercisable any time after approval of a development licence.
11 During 2012, the Group formally applied to the Ugandan government to withdraw from Block E4AB and the PSA was terminated on 23 August 2012.
The process of withdrawing from Uganda is on-going and subject to the Group meeting certain commitments which are near completion.
Ophir has no office or employees incountry.
Capital commitments relating to these projects are included in note 28.
There are no contingent liabilities associated with these projects.
Refertonote 2.3 n for the Groups accounting policy for jointly controlled assets and liabilities.
Acquisitions prior year During the year ended 31 December 2012 the Group acquired the Dominion group of companies and its portfolio of blocks in offshore Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and DRC, comprising a 90% beneficial interest in Kenya Blocks L9 and L15 and a 80% beneficial interest in Tanzania Block 7.
TheGroup disposed of its interest in the DRC note 10 on 20 July 2012.
27 Operating lease commitments At 31 December 2013 the Group was committed to making the following future minimum lease payments in respect of operating leases over land and buildings with the following lease termination dates: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Due within one 1 year 2,029 2,076 Due later than one 1 year but within five 5 years 9,956 3,961 Due later than two 2 years but within five 5 years 6,810 2,097 18,795 8,134 130 Ophir Energy plc Financial Statements 28 Capital commitments exploration In acquiring its oil and gas interests the Group has pledged that various work programmes will be undertaken on each permit interest.
Theexploration commitments below are an estimate of the net cost to the Group of performing these work programmes.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 $000 $000 Due within one 1 year 516,134 184,488 Due later than one 1 year but within two 2 years 40,877 33,951 Due later than two 2 years but within five 5 years 47,837 604,848 218,439 29 Contingent liabilities An individual has commenced action against the Group relating to an evaluation of an interest that was held in exploration blocks within the portfolio.
A preliminary hearing for the claim was carried out on 5 March 2014.
At this hearing the Court directed that preliminary arguments be deferred until 1 April 2014.
A trial date has not been set and therefore it is not practicable to state the timing of any payment.
The Group has taken the view that the action is without merit and accordingly has estimated that no liability will arise as a result of proceedings and no provision for any liability has been made in these financial statements.
30 Related party disclosures a Identity of related parties The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries refer to note 6 of the Company financial statements, joint ventures refertonote16, note 19 and note 26 and its Directors and companies associated with its Directors identified in the paragraph b below.
Recharges from the Company to subsidiaries in the year were $7,537,080 2012: $6,217,298.
Transactions between the Company anditssubsidiaries have been eliminated on consolidation.
b Other transactions with key management personnel The Company made payments of $10,311 2012: $1,168 to Vectis Petroleum Limited, a company associated with Mr John Lander, fortheprovision of his service as a non-executive director.
Compensation of key management personnel including Directors is disclosed in note 7 b.
31 Events after the reporting period On 14 November 2013, the Company announced its move to dispose of a 20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 in Tanzania to Pavilion Energy.
On 16 December 2013, the Company received shareholder approval to dispose of this interest.
All conditions precedent to the transaction have been satisfied or waived.
The transaction is now unconditional and will close shortly.
On 4 March 2014, the Group announced that it had entered into an agreement with WHL Energy Ltd WHL, an Australian listed E&P company, to acquire a 75% operated interest in Blocks PEC-5B 1 and PEC-5B 2 located offshore to the south of the Seychelles Islands in the Indian Ocean.
2 Inexchange for the acquired interest, the Group will repay back costs to WHL of $4 million and fund the acquisition of 1,500 km of 3D seismic data.
On 19 March 2014 the Company announced that the Padouck Deep-1 well in the Ntsina Block offshore Gabon had completed.
Whilst the well encountered thicker than expected, good-quality reservoir sands, there were no significant hydrocarbon shows.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 131 Company Financial Statements Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the  The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable UnitedKingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Company financial statements for each financial year.
Underthat law, the Directors are required to prepare Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Company financial statements the Directors are required to: present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Company: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: make judgements that are reasonable: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Companys financial position and financial performance: and state whether the Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subjecttoany material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets oftheCompany and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Approved by the Board on 19 March 2014 Nick Cooper Chief Executive Officer 132 Ophir Energy plc
