Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 109 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Advisers Honorary President Sir Martin Wood OBE FRS Hon FREng DL Company Secretary Susan Johnson-Brett ACIS Board Committees Audit JF Lennox, Chairman: J Allerton: MA Hughes: TO Geitner Remuneration NJ Keen, Chairman: J Allerton: MA Hughes: JF Lennox: TO Geitner Nomination NJ Keen, Chairman: J Allerton: JM Brady: MA Hughes: JF Lennox: TO Geitner Administration Any two Directors Advisers Auditor KPMG Audit Plc Principal Bankers HSBC Bank plc: Clydesdale Bank plc and Santander UK plc Stockbrokers JPMorgan Cazenove UK Solicitors Laytons Solicitors LLP and Ashurst LLP US Counsel Wilmer Hale LLP Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is EMAS certified: its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001 and it is a CarbonNeutral company.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Symbol Freelife Matt plus, a paper containing 100% Environmental Chlorine Free ECF virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
For more information please email: info.
com As part of Oxford Instruments environmental policy this report has been printed on FSC paper.
This publication is the copyright of Oxford Instruments plc and provides outline information only, which unless agreed by the Company in writing may not be used, applied or reproduced for any purpose or form part of any order or contract or regarded as the representation relating to the products or services concerned.
Oxford Instruments policy is one of continued improvement.
The Company reserves the right to alter, without notice the specification, design or conditions of supply of any product or service.
Oxford Instruments acknowledges all trademarks and registrations.
