ADDRESS As my our proxy to exercise all or any of my our rights to attend, speak and vote in respect of my our voting entitlement of.. shares on my our behalf at the annual general meeting of the company to be held at 15:00 on 24 July 2013 at the offices of PayPoint plc, 1 The Boulevard, Shire Park, Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire AL7 1EL and at any adjournment thereof.
Please indicate by ticking the box opposite if this proxy appointment is one of multiple appointments being made.
For the appointment of one or more proxy, please refer to explanatory note 2 below.
Items 1 to 15 are items of ordinary business, items 16 to 19 are items of special business.
RESOLUTION FOR AGAINST WITHHELD ORDINARY BUSINESS 1 To receive the directors report and the financial statements for the 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013, together with the auditors report.
2 To approve the remuneration committee report for the 53 weeks ended 31 March 2013.
3 To declare a final dividend of 20.2p per ordinary share of the company.
4 To declare a special dividend of 15.0p per ordinary share of the company.
5 To re-elect Mr Eric Anstee as a director of the company.
6 To re-elect Mr George Earle as a director of the company.
7 To re-elect Mr David Morrison as a director of the company.
8 To re-elect Mr David Newlands as a director of the company.
9 To re-elect Mr Andrew Robb as a director of the company.
10 To re-elect Mr Stephen Rowley as a director of the company.
11 To re-elect Mr Dominic Taylor as a director of the company.
12 To re-elect Mr Tim Watkin-Rees as a director of the company.
13 To re-elect Mr Nick Wiles as a director of the company.
14 To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the company.
15 To authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESS 16 ORDINARY RESOLUTION: To authorise the directors to allot shares pursuant to Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006.
17 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To disapply statutory pre-emption rights pursuant to Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006.
18 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To authorise the company to make market purchases of its ordinary shares up to 14.99% of the issued share capital.
19 SPECIAL RESOLUTION: To allow any general meeting other than an annual general meeting to be called on 14 days notice To assist with arrangements, if you intend attending the meeting in person, please place an X in the box opposite.
Date................................................ 2013 In the case of a corporation, this proxy must be given under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer duly authorised, stating their capacity e. g. director, company secretary Explanatory Notes 1.
Every holder has the right to appoint some other person s of their choice, who need not be a shareholder as his or her proxy to exercise all or any of his or her rights, to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided see below.
If the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name see below the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
If left blank, your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if this proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
To appoint more than one proxy, you may photocopy this form.
Please indicate the proxy holders name and the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy which, in aggregate, may not exceed the number of shares held by you.
Please also indicate if the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communication from the company in accordance with section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The vote withheld option above is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution.
However, it should be noted that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against a resolution.
Entitlement to attend and vote at the meeting and the number of votes which may be cast thereat will be determined by reference to the Register of Members of the Company at 6pm on the day which is two days before the day of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number RA10 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
The company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
The completion and return of this form will not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
If you attend the meeting in person, your proxy appointment will automatically be terminated.
To be effective, all votes must be lodged not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting at the office of the companys registrar at: Capita Registrars, PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
This form is issued only to the addressee s and is specific to the unique designated account printed hereon.
This personalised form is not transferable between different i account holders or ii uniquely designated accounts.
The company and Capita Registrars accept no liability for any instruction that does not comply with these conditions.
PayPoint plc annual report 2013 65 & 3rd FOLD and TUCK IN BUSINESS REPLY Licence No.
RSBH-UXKS-LRBC PXS 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham BR3 4TU 2nd FOLD 1st FOLD Officers and professional advisers Directors E Anstee G Earle D Morrison D Newlands Chairman A Robb S Rowley D Taylor T Watkin-Rees N Wiles Non-executive directors Company Secretary S Court Registered office 1 The Boulevard Shire Park Welwyn Garden City Hertfordshire, AL7 1EL United Kingdom Registered in England and Wales number 3581541 Independent auditor Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London, EC4A 3BZ United Kingdom Brokers J. P. Morgan Cazenove 25 Bank Street London, E14 5JP United Kingdom Cannacord Genuity Limited 88 Wood Street London, EC2V 7QR United Kingdom Jefferies Hoare Govett Vintners Place 68 Upper Thames Street London, EC4V 3BJ United Kingdom Registrar Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent, BR3 4TU United Kingdom This annual report has been produced using ISO 14001 and FSC certified environmental print technology, together with vegetable based inks.
Furthermore, we have worked in partnership with the CarbonNeutral Company to carbon offset the entire production and distribution of this document.
PayPoint plc 1 The Boulevard, Shire Park, Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire, AL7 1EL United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1707 600300 Fax 44 0 1707 600333 www.
