78 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report on directors remuneration Dear shareholders growing dividends.
We believe those are, in concert, good indicators that we are building the long-term I am pleased to present our report on directors value of Pearson.
So those measures or others that remuneration for 2013. contribute to them form the basis of our annual The report and related resolutions will be put forward budgets and strategic plans and the basis for annual for your consideration and approval at the annual and long-term incentives.
The remuneration committee is continually sensitive I should like to start by summarising the decisions on, to the current social and economic environment and the changes to, directors remuneration made surrounding executive compensation.
during the year and importantly the context in which We welcome the UK governments action to improve those changes occurred and decisions have been taken.
the clarity and transparency of remuneration Pearson has a unique set of advantages with which to disclosure.
We welcome the introduction of the new help meet the global demands for better education and executive remuneration reporting requirements skills.
And, by being better able to meet some of the including a new binding vote on policy.
biggest challenges in global education, we can build a We hope that these changes will continue to stronger, more profitable and faster growing company.
demonstrate the link between our remuneration To get there Pearson has fundamentally changed the way policy and practice and the companys strategy and the company is organised.
From January this year, performance, as well as our commitment to Pearson is being run as one globally-connected education shareholder engagement.
company, working to an operating model designed Performance in 2013 specifically to support a global education strategy, and a In 2013, trading was tough in many of our biggest new executive team has been appointed to lead it.
The and most established markets.
Overall, we saw: new model ensures that the company will be organised around a smaller number of global products and sales up 2% on 2012 at constant exchange rates platforms, built around a single, world-class infrastructure adjusted operating profit 6% lower before net and common systems and processes.
restructuring charges Over time, this will help Pearson to grow more quickly, our dividend raised 7% which was Pearsons 22nd as it will free up resources to invest in digital straight year of increasing our dividend above the transformation, and the new, more service oriented, rate of inflation.
products that are vital to future growth.
It should enable Over the past ten years we have increased our the company to increase the rate of innovation and dividend at a compound annual rate of 7%, returning invention, by focusing on the research and development more than 2.9bn to shareholders.
Restructuring is of the next generation of global products that will have on track to deliver benefits in 2014 and beyond.
the data to demonstrate their positive impact on Principles of remuneration policy learning outcomes.
The remuneration committee believes that the Pearsons executive remuneration arrangements have purpose of its remuneration policy is to support the been reviewed to align with and better support this companys strategy and to help deliver sustained strategy.
Executive remuneration decisions have been performance and consistent long-term value creation made after careful consideration of the needs of the in the interests of all stakeholders.
business, the transformation and reorganisation of the Our reward policy is aligned with the interests of all business and the impact on roles and responsibilities, stakeholders in providing: the pay markets in which Pearson operates and changes in pay elsewhere within the company.
competitive base salaries that reflect the market and individual roles and contribution This strategy also informs our remuneration philosophy and policy and complements our more traditional a high proportion of total remuneration being delivered financial measures.
In financial terms, Pearsons goal is to in variable forms that are directly linked to the annual achieve sustainable growth on three key financial goals and long-term performance of the company earnings, cash and return on invested capital and reliable annual incentives that reward achievement of cash returns to our investors through healthy and strategic goals OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 79 long-term incentives that drive long-term earnings and ensure that this policy fully supports the needs of the share price growth and encourage participants in these business plans to acquire and hold Pearson shares in line with we have aligned executive remuneration policy with shareholders interests the new global education strategy and one Pearson the opportunity for many people at Pearson to share organisation in the companys success through cash-based annual we have listened to, and sought to address, incentives and bonuses and worldwide participation in shareholders concerns and wishes regarding simplicity share ownership plans, continuing practices first started and alignment of interests in 1998. we actively consulted with our major shareholders and We continue to keep our remuneration policy under their representative bodies on the directors review in light of the prevailing economic conditions remuneration policy set out in this report.
and the impact of these on the companys objectives As a consequence: and strategy.
while we have established maximum opportunities for What we did in 2013 each of the different elements of remuneration, in all Looking back to some specific aspects of policy and cases these represent maximum limits or caps to cover practice in 2013: all likely eventualities for the life of the policy and we reviewed and established an appropriate starting should not be deemed to be a target or an entitlement.
remuneration package for John Fallon comprising base For example, for 2014 there will be no increase in salary, annual and long-term incentives, allowances maximum annual incentive opportunities and award and benefits levels under the long-term incentive plan will be we reviewed and amended the service agreements for consistent with those seen in recent years and below those executive directors, including the CEO, who the policy maximum continued to serve throughout 2013.
The consequence starting in 2014 and onwards, the size of the global of this review was to remove any entitlement to annual annual incentive pool and the funding of all annual incentive from the calculation of any compensation that incentives across the company will be linked to overall might be payable on termination of employment by the Pearson results company without notice or cause for performance-related long-term incentive awards we undertook a regular periodic review of base salaries for 2014 for members of the Pearson Executive, to for 2013 taking into account general economic and emphasise the importance of earnings growth and market conditions, the level of increases made across to reward the delivery of the desired outcomes from the company as a whole, the remuneration of the strategic effort, the weighting of the performance executives in similar positions in comparable metrics within the Pearson long-term incentive plan will companies and individual performance be changed from one-third on each measure to half on appointments were made to the new Pearson earnings per share growth, one-third no change on Executive return on invested capital and one-sixth on relative total shareholder return annual incentives paid to executives for 2013 were below target, as they were in 2012, reflecting for performance-related long-term incentive awards performance in a tough trading environment for 2015 and onwards, the averaging period for the calculation of relative total shareholder return will be there was a nil pay-out on long-term incentives based moved to the period running up to the year end and on 2013 performance reflecting below threshold the length of the averaging period will be increased to performance against the companys three-year targets three months.
This is understood to be more in line for earnings per share growth, return on invested with institutional investors preferences capital and relative total shareholder return.
to promote simplicity, the previous annual bonus share What weve planned for 2014 matching plan has ceased to operate with the last Looking forward, for 2014: awards made in 2013 in respect of annual bonus for we have undertaken a full review of the companys 2012.
We have not made any compensatory executive remuneration policy and either confirmed or, adjustments to annual or long-term incentive where necessary, established maximum opportunities opportunities to take this into account for each of the different elements of remuneration to
