86 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report on directors remuneration continued Long-term incentives would take account of best practice prevailing at PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY thetime.
The committee would consult with Help to recruit, reward and retain.
shareholders before granting stock options to Drive long-term earnings, share price growth and executive directors.
An option granted under the stock option element Align the interests of executives and shareholders.
may not generally be exercised until a time specified Encourage long-term shareholding and when the option is granted.
The date on which commitment to the company.
options would become exercisable would be set by the committee.
Options may not be exercised later Link managements long-term reward and wealth than the tenth anniversary of grant.
Any options tocorporate performance in a flexible way.
granted toexecutive directors would vest only if OPERATION stretching performance conditions are achieved over Awards of restricted shares are made on an a three-year minimum vesting period.
would vest on a sliding scale based on performance over the period.
There will be no re-testing.
Awards of restricted shares for executive directors and other members of the Pearson Executive vest Pearsons reported financial results for the relevant on asliding scale based on performance against periods are used to measure performance.
stretching corporate performance targets measured The committee reserves the right to adjust pay-outs at the end of the three-year performance period.
up or down before they are released taking into For performance-related awards for members of account exceptional factors that distort underlying thePearson Executive, performance will continue business performance or if it believes exceptional tobe tested over three years and 75% of the vested factors warrant doing so.
In making such shares will continue to be released at that point.
adjustments, the committee is guided by the However, starting with awards made in 2014, there principle of aligning shareholder and management will be a mandatory restriction onparticipants interests.
ability to dispose of the 75% of the vested shares The committee also reserves the right as a form other than to meet personal tax liabilities for ofmalus to adjust pay-outs before they are released afurther two years.
Furthermore, participants if exceptional circumstances exist that warrant this, rights to the release of the 25% of the vested shares such as financial misstatement, individual misconduct will besubject to continued employment over the or reputational damage to the company.
The committee also reserves, in the same special Where shares vest, participants also receive circumstances, a right to reclaim or claw back payadditional shares representing the gross value of outs or awards that have already been released.
dividends that would have been paid on these shares during the performance period and reinvested.
OPPORTUNITY The plan permits awards of restricted shares to be We set the level of individual awards by taking into made that are not subject to performance conditions account: to satisfy reward and retention objectives.
However, the face value of individual awards at the time of grant, other than in exceptional circumstances on assuming that performance targets are met in full: recruitment, it is the companys normal policy not to market practice for comparable companies and award restricted shares to executive directors and market assessments of total remuneration from other members of the Pearson Executive without our independent advisers: performance conditions.
individual roles and responsibilities: and The long-term incentive plan also provides for the company and individual performance.
Whilst it is not the committees intention to grant stock options in 2014 Restricted share awards to executive directors may or the foreseeable future, the committee believes normally be made up to a maximum face value of that it should retain the exibility of granting stock 400% of base salary.
Awards in excess of 400% options inaddition to, or instead of, restricted stock of base salary may be made in exceptional awards in the right circumstances.
Any decision by circumstances, for example, for retention purposes the committee to grant stock options in the future or to reect particular business situations.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 87 The reasons for any such exceptional awards will be We will set targets for the 2014 awards that are disclosed in the annual report for the year in which consistent with the companys strategic objectives they are made.
Full details of the performance measures, weightings and targets for The value of awards at pay-out is subject to the 2014 and the proportion of the award payable at extent to which performance and any other threshold will be set out in the annual remuneration conditions are met and the share price at the time report for 2014. ofvesting.
The proportion of the award that vests atthreshold level ofperformance may vary by As with restricted shares, the committee will performance condition.
determine the performance conditions that apply toany awards of stock options prior to grant.
Whilst it is not the committees intention to grant Theintention would be that these conditions would stock options in 2014 or the foreseeable future, the be thesame as apply to restricted shares.
maximum value of stock option awards would be the equivalent expected value of the maximum Total shareholder return TSR is the return to restricted share awards set out above, based on an shareholders from any growth in Pearsons share independent assessment of their net present value price and reinvested dividends over the performance taking into account all the conditions.
For long-term incentive awards, TSR is measured relative to the constituents of the FTSE For 2014, we will set the level of individual restricted World Media Index over a three-year period.
share awards consistent with those seen in recent Companies that drop out of the index are normally years and within the policy maximum taking into excluded i. e. only companies in the index for the account the factors set out above.
Share price is averaged No adjustment has been made to long-term over three months atthe start and end of the incentive opportunities for the cessation of the performance period.
Dividends are treated as annual bonus share matching plan under which the reinvested on the ex-dividend date, in line with the last conditional awards were made in 2013 in respect Datastream methodology.
The vesting of shares of 2012 annual incentive.
based on relative TSR is subject to thecommittee satisfying itself that the recorded TSR isa genuine PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS reection of the underlying financial performance The committee will determine the performance ofthe business.
measures, weightings and targets governing an Return on invested capital ROIC is adjusted award of restricted shares prior to grant to ensure operating profit less cash tax expressed as a continuing alignment with strategy and to ensure percentage of gross invested capital net operating that targets are sufficiently stretching.
The committee establishes a threshold below which Adjusted earnings per share EPS is calculated by no pay-out is achieved and a maximum at or above dividing the adjusted earnings attributable to equity which the award pays out in full.
shareholders of the company by the weighted For 2014 and onwards, awards will normally be average number of ordinary shares in issue during the subject to the achievement of targets for growth in year, excluding any ordinary shares purchased by the earnings per share, return on invested capital and company and held in trust see note 8 of the financial relative total shareholder return.
For 2014, to statements for a detailed description of adjusted emphasise the importance of earnings growth and to earnings per share.
EPS growth is calculated using reward the delivery of the desired outcomes from the point-to-point method.
This method compares the strategic effort, the weighting of the performance the adjusted EPS in the companys accounts for the metrics within the Pearson long-term incentive plan financial year ended prior to the grant date with the will be changed from one-third on each measure to adjusted EPS for the financial year ending three years half on earnings per share growth, one-third on later and calculates the implicit compound annual return on invested capital no change and one-sixth growth rate over the period.
on relative total shareholder return.
