74 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board governance continued Fair, balanced and understandable reporting of the company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the report on Pearson is mindful of the Codes revised principle C. 1.1 directors remuneration comply with the Act and, as relating to fair, balanced and understandable reporting regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of and has accordingly built in additional steps to its the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for annual report timetable to ensure that the directors safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group are given sufficient opportunity to review, consider and and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention comment on the report.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The disclosure committee and the board each held an The directors are responsible for the maintenance and additional meeting as part of their review process, and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the members of the disclosure committee also attended a UK governing the preparation and dissemination training session provided by PwC to better understand of financial statements may differ from legislation the requirements.
In addition, the audit committee in other jurisdictions.
is available to advise the board on certain aspects of the report, to enable the directors to fulfil their Each of the directors, whose names and functions are responsibility in this regard.
listed on pages 55 and 56, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Statement of directors responsibilities The Group financial statements, which have been The directors are responsible for preparing the annual prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the report, the report on directors remuneration and the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, financial statements in accordance with applicable law liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and and regulations.
company: and Company law requires the directors to prepare The directors report contained in the annual report financial statements for each financial year.
Under that includes a fair review of the development and law the directors have prepared the Group and parent performance of the business and the position of the company financial statements in accordance with company and Group, together with a description International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
as adopted by the European Union.
Under company The directors also confirm that, for all directors law the directors must not approve the financial in office at the date of this report: statements unless they are satisfied that they give a a so far as the directors are aware, there is no true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company relevant audit information of which the companys and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group auditors are unaware: and for that period.
b they have taken all the steps that they ought to have In preparing these financial statements, the directors taken as directors in order to make themselves aware are required to: of any relevant audit information and to establish that Select suitable accounting policies and then apply the companys auditors are aware of that information.
them consistently: In addition, the directors as at the date of this report Make judgements and accounting estimates that consider that the annual report, taken as a whole, is are reasonable and prudent: fair, balanced and understandable and provides the State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the information necessary for shareholders to assess the European Union have been followed, subject to any companys performance, business model and strategy.
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Sections one to four of this document contain the Prepare the financial statements on a going concern information required to be disclosed in the directors basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the report and were approved by the board on 10 March company and or the Group will continue in business.
2014 and signed on its behalf by The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position Philip Hoffman Secretary
