OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information Operating profit reduced by 4m.
Net finance costs reduced by 15m.
Pearson plc the company its subsidiaries and Income tax charge reduced by 4m.
associates together the Group are international media businesses covering education, business The remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations information and consumer publishing.
charge in the statement of other comprehensive income reduced by 15m.
The company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered If the results for 2013 had been prepared under IAS 19 office is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
rev 2008 the service cost would have been 4m lower and the net interest income would have been The company has its primary listing on the London 28m higher.
Stock Exchange and is also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Presentation of Items and Other These consolidated financial statements were Comprehensive Income, effective for annual approved for issue by the board of directors reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012. on 10 March 2014.
The amendments require the grouping of items in 1.
Accounting policies other comprehensive income into those that may be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent The principal accounting policies applied in the periods, and those that will not.
The statement of preparation of these consolidated financial statements other comprehensive income has been updated to are set out below.
Basis of preparation The IASB issued a package of five new and amended These consolidated financial statements have been standards together.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Disclosures of Involvement with Other Entities have and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations as been issued.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements adopted by the European Union EU and with those Revised 2011 has been amended following the issuance parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies of IFRS 10 and retains the guidance for separate reporting under IFRS.
In respect of the accounting financial statements.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates standards applicable to the Group there is no difference and Joint Ventures Revised 2011 has been amended between EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
following the issuance of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
All three These consolidated financial statements have been new standards and two amended standards are not prepared under the historical cost convention as mandatory for the Group until 1 January 2014. modified by the revaluation of financial assets and However, the Group has early adopted these liabilities including derivative financial instruments standards and amendments as of 1 January 2013. to fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, effective for annual 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. effective 2013 The standard defines fair value, provides guidance on The following amendments and interpretations were its determination, and introduces disclosure adopted in 2013: requirements on fair value measurements.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 2011, Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments effective for annual reporting periods beginning on Disclosures regarding asset and liability offsetting.
The amendments include the Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of assets, on elimination of the corridor approach, changes to the the recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial calculation of the net interest and service cost assets.
This amendment removed certain disclosures components and changes to disclosure.
The 2012 of the recoverable amount of CGUs which had been results have been restated for IAS 19 2011 with included in IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13.
The the results as follows: amendment is not mandatory for the Group until 1 January 2014.
However, the Group has early adopted the amendments as of 1 January 2013.
130 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Identifiable assets and contingent assets acquired and identifiable liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed a.
Basis of preparation continued in a business combination are measured initially at With the exception of IAS 19 Employee Benefits their fair values at the acquisition date.
For material 2011, the adoption of these new pronouncements acquisitions, the fair value of the acquired intangible from 1 January 2013, does not have a material impact assets is determined by an independent valuer.
The on the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosure excess of the consideration transferred, the amount requirements have been updated as required.
of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the 2.
Standards, interpretations and amendments acquisition date fair value of any previous equity to published standards that are not yet effective interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the The Group has not early adopted the following new identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
pronouncements that are not yet effective: See note 1e 1 for the accounting policy on goodwill.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, effective for annual If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. subsidiary acquired, in the case of a bargain purchase, the The new standard details the requirements for the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
classification, measurement and recognition of financial On an  basis, the Group assets and liabilities.
The Group is yet to assess the full recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree impact of IFRS 9, and will do so once the remaining either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests sections of the standard are completed.
proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
IFRIC 21, Levies details the accounting for an 2.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities over which the obligation to pay a levy that is not income tax.
The Group controls an entity when Group is not currently subjected to significant levies the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable the impact on the Group is not material.
returns from its involvement with the entity and has 3.
Critical accounting assumptions and judgements the ability to affect those returns through its power The preparation of financial statements in conformity over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
It also requires management to exercise They are deconsolidated from the date that control its judgement in the process of applying the Groups ceases.
The areas requiring a higher degree 3.
Transactions with non-controlling interests Transactions of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss and estimates are significant to the consolidated of control are accounted for as equity transactions, financial statements, are discussed in the relevant that is as transactions with the owners in their capacity accounting policies under the following headings: as owners.
Any surplus or deficit arising from disposals Intangible assets: Goodwill to a non-controlling interest is recorded in equity.
Intangible assets: Pre-publication assets For purchases from a non-controlling interest, the Taxation difference between consideration paid and the relevant Employee benefits: Pension obligations share acquired of the carrying value of the subsidiary is Revenue recognition recorded in equity.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are entities in 1. Business combinations The acquisition method of which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis accounting is used to account for business combinations.
and has rights to the net assets through contractually The consideration transferred for the acquisition agreed sharing of control.
Associates are entities over of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, which the Group has significant influence but not the the liabilities incurred and the equity interest issued by power to control the financial and operating policies, the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in joint ventures contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition and associates are accounted for by the equity method related costs are expensed as incurred in the operating and are initially recognised at the fair value of expenses line of the income statement.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 131 1.
Accounting policies continued On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, b.
Consolidation continued and of borrowings and other currency instruments The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates designated as hedges of such investments, are taken post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the to shareholders equity.
The Group treats specific income statement and its share of post-acquisition inter-company loan balances, which are not intended movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
to be repaid in the foreseeable future, as part of its net The Groups share of its joint ventures and associates investment.
When a foreign operation is sold, such results is recognised as a component of operating profit exchange differences are recognised in the income as these operations form part of the core publishing statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
business of the Group and are an integral part of existing wholly-owned businesses.
The cumulative The principal overseas currency for the Group is the post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the US dollar.
The average rate for the year against sterling carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups was $1.57 2012: $1.59 and the year end rate was share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or $1.66 2012: $1.63.
exceeds its interest in the joint venture or associate the d. Property, plant and equipment Group does not recognise further losses unless the Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical Group has incurred obligations or made payments on cost less depreciation.
Cost includes the original behalf of the joint venture or associate.
purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable c. Foreign currency translation to bringing the asset to its working condition for 1.
Functional and presentation currency Items included in intended use.
Depreciation the financial statements of each of the Groups entities on other assets is calculated using the straight-line are measured using the currency of the primary method to allocate their cost less their residual values economic environment in which the entity operates over their estimated useful lives as follows: the functional currency.
The consolidated financial Buildings freehold : 2050 years statements are presented in sterling, which is the Buildings leasehold : over the period of the lease companys functional and presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency The assets residual values and useful lives are using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses sheet date.
resulting from the settlement of such transactions and The carrying value of an asset is written down to its from the translation at year end exchange rates of recoverable amount if the carrying value of the asset monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
currencies are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in equity as qualifying net e. Intangible assets investment hedges.
Goodwill For the acquisition of subsidiaries made on or after 1 January 2010 goodwill represents the 3.
Group companies The results and financial position excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of all Group companies that have a functional currency of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and different from the presentation currency are translated the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity into the presentation currency as follows: interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the i assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate identifiable net assets acquired.
For the acquisition of at the date of the balance sheet: subsidiaries made from the date of transition to IFRS to 31 December 2009 goodwill represents the excess ii income and expenses are translated at average of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the exchange rates: Groups share of the net identifiable assets acquired.
iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in as a separate component of equity.
Goodwill on acquisition of associates and joint ventures represents the excess of the cost of 132 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Acquired intangible assets Acquired intangible assets include customer lists and relationships, trademarks e. Intangible assets continued and brands, publishing rights, content and technology.
an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share These assets are capitalised on acquisition at cost and of the net identifiable assets acquired.
Goodwill on included in intangible assets.
Intangible assets acquired acquisitions of associates and joint ventures is included in material business combinations are capitalised at in investments in associates and joint ventures.
their fair value as determined by an independent valuer.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and Intangible assets are amortised over their estimated carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
useful lives of between two and 20 years, using an An impairment loss is recognised to the extent amortisation method that reflects the pattern of that the carrying value of goodwill exceeds the their consumption.
The recoverable amount is the 5.
Pre-publication assets Pre-publication assets higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
represent direct costs incurred in the development These calculations require the use of estimates and of educational programmes and titles prior to their significant management judgement.
These costs are recognised as current key assumptions and sensitivities is included in note 11. intangible assets where the title will generate probable Goodwill is allocated to aggregated cash-generating future economic benefits and costs can be measured units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Pre-publication assets are amortised upon allocation is made to those aggregated cash-generating publication of the title over estimated economic lives units that are expected to benefit from the business of five years or less, being an estimate of the expected combination in which the goodwill arose.
operating life cycle of the title, with a higher proportion Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include of the amortisation taken in the earlier years.
the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the The investment in pre-publication assets has been entity sold.
disclosed as part of cash generated from operations IFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied in the cash flow statement see note 34. retrospectively to business combinations before the The assessment of the recoverability of pre-publication date of transition to IFRS.
assets and the determination of the amortisation 2.
Acquired software Software separately acquired for profile involve a significant degree of judgement based internal use is capitalised at cost.
Software acquired in on historical trends and management estimation of material business combinations is capitalised at its fair future potential sales.
An incorrect amortisation profile value as determined by an independent valuer.
could result in excess amounts being carried forward as Acquired software is amortised on a straight-line basis intangible assets that would otherwise have been written over its estimated useful life of between three and off to the income statement in an earlier period.
Reviews are performed regularly to estimate 3.
Internally developed software Internal and external recoverability of pre-publication assets.
The carrying costs incurred during the preliminary stage of amount of pre-publication assets is set out in note 20. developing computer software for internal use are f. Other financial assets expensed as incurred.
Internal and external costs Other financial assets, designated as available for incurred to develop computer software for internal sale investments, are non-derivative financial assets use during the application development stage are measured at estimated fair value.
Changes in the capitalised if the Group expects economic benefits fair value are recorded in equity in the fair value from the development.
Capitalisation in the application reserve.
On the subsequent disposal of the asset, development stage begins once the Group can reliably the net fair value gains or losses are taken to the measure the expenditure attributable to the software income statement.
development and has demonstrated its intention to complete and use the software.
Internally developed software is amortised on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life of between three and eight years.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 133 1.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
g. Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first in of new shares or options are shown in equity as first out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct Where any Group company purchases the companys labour, other direct costs and related production equity share capital treasury shares the consideration overheads.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling paid, including any directly attributable incremental price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs, net of income taxes, is deducted from equity costs necessary to make the sale.
Provisions are made attributable to the companys equity holders until the for slow moving and obsolete stock.
shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where h. Royalty advances such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any Advances of royalties to authors are included within consideration received, net of any directly attributable trade and other receivables when the advance is paid transaction costs and the related income tax effects, less any provision required to adjust the advance to is included in equity attributable to the companys its net realisable value.
The realisable value of royalty equity holders.
advances relies on a degree of management judgement k. Borrowings in determining the profitability of individual author Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, which contracts.
If the estimated realisable value of author is proceeds received net of transaction costs incurred.
contracts is overstated, this will have an adverse effect Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost on operating profits as these excess amounts will be with any difference between the proceeds net of written off.
transaction costs and the redemption value being The recoverability of royalty advances is based upon recognised in the income statement over the period an annual detailed management review of the age of of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
the advance, the future sales projections for new Accrued interest is included as part of borrowings.
authors and prior sales history of repeat authors.
Where a debt instrument is in a fair value hedging The royalty advance is expensed at the contracted relationship, an adjustment is made to its carrying value or effective royalty rate as the related revenues are in the income statement to reflect the hedged risk.
Royalty advances which will be consumed Interest on borrowings is expensed in the income within one year are held in current assets.
advances which will be consumed after one year are l. Derivative financial instruments held in non-current assets.
Derivatives are recognised at fair value and remeasured i.
Cash and cash equivalents at each balance sheet date.
The fair value of derivatives Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement is determined by using market data and the use of include cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks, established estimation techniques such as discounted other short-term highly liquid investments with cash flow and option valuation models.
The Group original maturities of three months or less, and bank designates certain of the derivative instruments within overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are included in borrowings its portfolio to be hedges of the fair value of its bonds in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
fair value hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations net investment hedges.
Short-term deposits and marketable securities with maturities of greater than three months do not qualify as cash and cash equivalents.
Movements on these financial instruments are classified as cash flows from financing activities in the cash flow statement where these amounts are used to offset the borrowings of the Group or as cash flows from investing activities where these amounts are held to generate an investment return.
134 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in l. Derivative financial instruments continued determining the estimates in relation to the worldwide Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are provision for income taxes.
There are many designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax in the income statement, together with any changes in determination is uncertain during the ordinary course the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are of business.
The Group recognises liabilities for attributable to the hedged risk.
anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of The effective portion of changes in the fair value whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the final of derivatives that are designated and qualify as net tax outcome of these matters is different from the investment hedges are recognised in other amounts that were initially recorded, such differences comprehensive income.
Gains and losses accumulated will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in equity are included in the income statement when in the period in which such determination is made.
the corresponding foreign operation is disposed of.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management Gains or losses relating to the ineffective portion are judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised immediately in finance income or finance recognised.
In particular, significant judgement is used costs in the income statement.
when assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets Certain derivatives do not qualify or are not designated should be recognised with consideration given to the as hedging instruments.
Such derivatives are classified timing and level of future taxable income together with at fair value and any movement in their fair value is any future tax planning strategies.
recognised immediately in finance income or finance n. Employee benefits costs in the income statement.
Pension obligations The retirement benefit asset and m. Taxation obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents Current tax is recognised on the amounts expected to the net of the present value of the defined benefit be paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that obligation and the fair value of plan assets at the have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is balance sheet date.
calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting method, on temporary differences arising between the estimated future cash flows using yields on high quality tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying corporate bonds which have terms to maturity amounts.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax approximating the terms of the related liability.
rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to The determination of the pension cost and defined apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
pension schemes depends on the selection of certain assumptions, which include the discount rate, inflation Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent rate, salary growth and longevity.
that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience can be utilised.
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive Deferred income tax is provided in respect of the income in the period in which they arise.
undistributed earnings of subsidiaries other than where it is intended that those undistributed earnings will not The service cost, representing benefits accruing over be remitted in the foreseeable future.
the year, is included in the income statement as an operating cost.
Net interest is calculated by applying Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income the discount rate to the net defined benefit obligation statement, except when the tax relates to items and is presented as finance costs or finance income.
charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity or other comprehensive income.
OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 135 1.
Accounting policies continued p. Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration n. Employee benefits continued received or receivable for the sale of goods and Obligations for contributions to defined contribution services net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts, pension plans are recognised as an operating expense and after eliminating sales within the Group.
in the income statement as incurred.
Revenue from the sale of books is recognised when 2.
Other post-retirement obligations The expected costs title passes.
A provision for anticipated returns is made of post-retirement healthcare and life assurance based primarily on historical return rates.
If these benefits are accrued over the period of employment, estimates do not reflect actual returns in future periods using a similar accounting methodology as for defined then revenues could be understated or overstated for benefit pension obligations.
The liabilities and costs a particular period.
relating to significant other post-retirement obligations are assessed annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Circulation and advertising revenue is recognised when the newspaper or other publication is published.
Share-based payments The fair value of options or Subscription revenue is recognised on a straight-line shares granted under the Groups share and option basis over the life of the subscription.
plans is recognised as an employee expense after taking into account the Groups best estimate of the number Where a contractual arrangement consists of two of awards expected to vest.
Fair value is measured at or more separate elements that can be provided the date of grant and is spread over the vesting period to customers either on a stand-alone basis or as an of the option or share.
The fair value of the options optional extra, such as the provision of supplementary granted is measured using an option model that is most materials with textbooks, revenue is recognised for appropriate to the award.
The fair value of shares each element as if it were an individual contractual awarded is measured using the share price at the date arrangement.
of grant unless another method is more appropriate.
Revenue from multi-year contractual arrangements, Any proceeds received are credited to share capital such as contracts to process qualifying tests for and share premium when the options are exercised.
individual professions and government departments, o.
Provisions is recognised as performance occurs.
The assumptions, Provisions are recognised if the Group has a present risks, and uncertainties inherent in long-term contract legal or constructive obligation as a result of past accounting can affect the amounts and timing of events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of revenue and related expenses reported.
Certain of resources will be required to settle the obligation these arrangements, either as a result of a single service and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions spanning more than one reporting period or where the are discounted to present value where the effect contract requires the provision of a number of services is material.
that together constitute a single project, are treated as long-term contracts with revenue recognised on a The Group recognises a provision for deferred percentage of completion basis.
Losses on contracts consideration at fair value.
are recognised in the period in which the loss first The Group recognises a provision for onerous lease becomes foreseeable.
Contract losses are determined contracts when the expected benefits to be derived to be the amount by which estimated total costs of the from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs contract exceed the estimated total revenues that will of meeting the obligations under the contract.
be generated by the contract.
The provision is based on the present value of future On certain contracts, where the Group acts as agent, payments for surplus leased properties under nononly commissions and fees receivable for services cancellable operating leases, net of estimated subrendered are recognised as revenue.
costs incurred on behalf of the principal that are rechargeable under the contractual arrangement are not included in revenue.
