76 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board governance continued There were 9,282,365 shares so held as at Without prejudice to any special rights previously 31 December 2013.
Each trust has an independent conferred on the holders of any existing shares or class trustee which has full discretion in relation to the of shares, any share may be issued with such preferred, voting of such shares.
A dividend waiver operates deferred, or other special rights, or such restrictions, on the shares held in these trusts.
whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the company may from time to time Pearson also operates a nominee shareholding by ordinary resolution determine.
arrangement known as Sharestore which holds shares on behalf of employees.
There were 4,564,039 shares Appointment and replacement of directors so held as at 31 December 2013.
The beneficial The Articles contain the following provisions in relation owners of shares held through Sharestore are to directors: invited to submit voting instructions online at # www.
If no instructions are given Directors shall number no less than two.
Directors by the beneficial owner, the trustees holding these may be appointed by the company by ordinary shares will not exercise the voting rights.
resolution or by the board.
A director appointed by the board shall hold office only until the next AGM and Transfer of shares shall then be eligible for reappointment, but shall not The board may refuse to register a transfer of a be taken into account in determining the directors or certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the number of directors who are to retire by rotation the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the at that meeting.
The board may from time to time company from taking place on an open and proper appoint one or more directors to hold executive office basis.
The board may also refuse to register a transfer with the company for such period subject to the of a certificated share unless i the instrument of provisions of the Act and upon such terms as the transfer is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the board may decide and may revoke or terminate any registered office of the company or any other place appointment so made.
decided by the board, and is accompanied by the The Articles provide that, at every AGM of the certificate for the share to which it relates and such company, at least one-third of the directors shall retire other evidence as the board may reasonably require by rotation or, if their number is not a multiple of to show the right of the transferor to make the three, the number nearest to one-third.
The first transfer: ii it is in respect of only one class of directors to retire by rotation shall be those who wish shares: and iii it is in favour of not more than to retire and not offer themselves for re-election.
further directors so to retire shall be those of the other Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out directors subject to retirement by rotation who have using CREST and the board can refuse to register a been longest in office since they were last re-elected transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with but, as between persons who became or were last the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
re-elected on the same day, those to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves Variation of rights be determined by lot.
In addition, any director who If at any time the capital of the company is divided into would not otherwise be required to retire shall different classes of shares, the special rights attaching retire by rotation at the third AGM after they were to any class may be varied or revoked either: last re-elected.
i with the written consent of the holders of at least Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, the 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of the board has resolved that all directors should offer relevant class: or themselves for re-election annually, in accordance with the Code.
ii with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares The company may by ordinary resolution remove any of the relevant class.
director before the expiration of his her term of office.
In addition, the board may terminate an agreement or arrangement with any director for the provision of his her services to the company.
