OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 109 At 31 December 2013, stock awards to be satisfied Shareholding guidelines for executive directors by new-issue equity granted in the last ten years Executive directors are expected to build up a under all Pearson share plans amounted to 1.6% substantial shareholding in the company in line with the of the companys issued share capital.
No stock policy of encouraging widespread employee ownership awards granted in the last ten years under executive and to align further the interests of executives and or discretionary share plans will be satisfied by shareholders.
With effect from 2014, target holding is new-issue equity.
300% of salary for the chief executive and 200% of In addition, for existing shares no more than 5% of salary for the other executive directors.
Pearson equity may be held in trust at any time.
Shares that count towards these guidelines include any Against this limit, shares held in trust at 31 December shares held unencumbered by the executive, their 2013 amounted to 1.1% of the companys issued spouse and or dependent children plus any shares share capital.
vested but held pending release under a restricted The headroom available for all Pearson plans, share plan.
Executive directors have five years from the executive or discretionary plans and shares held in date of appointment to reach the guideline.
trust is as follows: There are currently no mandatory share ownership guidelines below executive director level, although Headroom 2013 2012 2011 employees are encouraged to become shareholders in All Pearson plans 8.4% 8.3% 8.3% the company by retaining shares acquired through the Executive or discretionary plans 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% companys discretionary and all-employee stock Shares held in trust 3.9% 3.8% 3.2% programmes.
The shareholding guidelines do not apply to the chairman and non-executive directors.
Executive directors non-executive directorships In accordance with policy, the following executive Dilution and use of equity directors served as non-executive directors elsewhere We can use existing shares bought in the market, and retained fees or other benefits for the period treasury shares or newly-issued shares to satisfy covered by this report as follows: awards under the companys various stock plans.
Name Company Fees benefits For restricted stock awards under the long-term Rona Fairhead HSBC Holdings plc 83,333 incentive plan and matching share awards under the annual bonus share matching plan, we would normally Other executive directors served as non-executive expect to use existing shares.
directors elsewhere but either waived or did not receive fees.
There are limits on the amount of new-issue equity we can use.
In any rolling ten-year period, no more than 10% of Pearson equity will be issued, or be capable of being issued, under all Pearsons share plans, and no more than 5% of Pearson equity will be issued, or be capable of being issued, under executive or discretionary plans.
