OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 5 Financial statements 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements General information Operating profit reduced by 4m.
Net finance costs reduced by 15m.
Pearson plc the company its subsidiaries and Income tax charge reduced by 4m.
associates together the Group are international media businesses covering education, business The remeasurement of retirement benefit obligations information and consumer publishing.
charge in the statement of other comprehensive income reduced by 15m.
The company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England.
The address of its registered If the results for 2013 had been prepared under IAS 19 office is 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL.
rev 2008 the service cost would have been 4m lower and the net interest income would have been The company has its primary listing on the London 28m higher.
Stock Exchange and is also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Presentation of Items and Other These consolidated financial statements were Comprehensive Income, effective for annual approved for issue by the board of directors reporting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012. on 10 March 2014.
The amendments require the grouping of items in 1.
Accounting policies other comprehensive income into those that may be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent The principal accounting policies applied in the periods, and those that will not.
The statement of preparation of these consolidated financial statements other comprehensive income has been updated to are set out below.
Basis of preparation The IASB issued a package of five new and amended These consolidated financial statements have been standards together.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial prepared on the going concern basis and in accordance Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12 with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Disclosures of Involvement with Other Entities have and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations as been issued.
IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements adopted by the European Union EU and with those Revised 2011 has been amended following the issuance parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies of IFRS 10 and retains the guidance for separate reporting under IFRS.
In respect of the accounting financial statements.
IAS 28 Investments in Associates standards applicable to the Group there is no difference and Joint Ventures Revised 2011 has been amended between EU-adopted and IASB-adopted IFRS.
following the issuance of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
All three These consolidated financial statements have been new standards and two amended standards are not prepared under the historical cost convention as mandatory for the Group until 1 January 2014. modified by the revaluation of financial assets and However, the Group has early adopted these liabilities including derivative financial instruments standards and amendments as of 1 January 2013. to fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, effective for annual 1.
Interpretations and amendments to published standards reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. effective 2013 The standard defines fair value, provides guidance on The following amendments and interpretations were its determination, and introduces disclosure adopted in 2013: requirements on fair value measurements.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits 2011, Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments effective for annual reporting periods beginning on Disclosures regarding asset and liability offsetting.
The amendments include the Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of assets, on elimination of the corridor approach, changes to the the recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial calculation of the net interest and service cost assets.
This amendment removed certain disclosures components and changes to disclosure.
The 2012 of the recoverable amount of CGUs which had been results have been restated for IAS 19 2011 with included in IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13.
The the results as follows: amendment is not mandatory for the Group until 1 January 2014.
However, the Group has early adopted the amendments as of 1 January 2013.
