OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 73 As at 4 March 2014, being the last practicable date Tax compliance and related activities up to the greater before the publication of this report, the company had of 1,000,000 per annum or 50% of the external audit been notified under DTR5 of the following significant fee: and voting rights in its shares: For forward-looking tax advisory services we use the most appropriate adviser, usually after a tender Percentage process.
Where we decide to use our independent Number of as at date of voting rights notification auditors, authority, up to 100,000 per project subject Harbor International Fund 24,598,034 3.01% to a cumulative limit of 500,000 per annum, has been delegated by the audit committee to management.
Libyan Investment Authority 24,431,000 3.01% Services provided by PwC above these limits and all Annual General Meeting AGM other allowable non-audit services, irrespective of value, must be approved by the audit committee.
The notice convening the AGM, to be held at 12 noon Where appropriate, services will be tendered prior to on Friday, 25 April 2014 at 8 Northumberland Avenue, a decision being made as to whether to award work to London WC2N 5BY, is contained in a circular to the auditors.
shareholders to be dated 24 March 2014.
The audit committee receives regular reports Registered auditors summarising the amount of fees paid to the auditors.
In accordance with section 489 of the Act, During 2013, Pearson spent a considerable amount of a resolution proposing the reappointment of non-audit fees with PwC.
In the main, this expenditure  LLP PwC as auditors to related to specific assurance and tax advisory services the company will be proposed at the AGM, at a level associated with the planned creation of the venture of remuneration to be agreed by the directors.
between Penguin and Random House.
PwC were selected only after consideration that it was most Auditors independence practical and economical to utilise PwC for these In line with best practice, our relationship with PwC services.
We anticipate that this level of non-audit fee is governed by our external auditors policy, which is is unusual, and that the balance of audit to non-audit reviewed and approved annually by the audit fee paid to PwC will return to more normal levels in committee.
The policy establishes procedures to 2014.
Other significant non-audit work performed by ensure the auditors independence is not PwC during 2013 was: compromised, as well as defining those non-audit Tax compliance services related to a routine audit by services that PwC may or may not provide to Pearson.
the US Internal Revenue Service: These allowable services are in accordance with Assurance services on a corporate bond issued in relevant UK and US legislation.
May 2013: and The audit committee approves all audit and non-audit Other assurance services which were individually less services provided by PwC.
Certain categories than 100,000 per project.
of allowable non-audit services have been preIn each case, PwC was selected as they were best able approved by the audit committee subject to the to provide the services we required at a reasonable fee authorities below: and within the terms of our external auditors policy.
Pre-approved non-audit services can be authorised by To assist in ensuring that independence and objectivity the chief financial officer up to 100,000 per project, is maintained, for forward-looking tax advisory and due subject to a cumulative limit of 500,000 per annum: diligence work PwC assign a different partner from the Acquisition or disposal transactions and due diligence one leading the external audit.
up to 100,000 per project may be performed by our A full statement of the fees for audit and services is external auditors, in light of the need for confidentiality.
provided in note 4 to the accounts on page 141.
Any project transaction generating fees in excess of 100,000 must be specifically approved by the audit committee:
