88 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report on directors remuneration continued Selection of performance measures and target setting could have been acquired with the amount of pre-tax annual bonus invested in Pearson shares i. e. one In the selection and weighting of performance measures matching share for every one invested share, grossed for the annual and long-term incentive awards the up for tax.
committee takes into account Pearsons strategic objectives and shortand long-term business priorities.
Remuneration policy for other employees In the case of annual incentives, the committee chose The approach to remuneration for the broader sales, earnings per share or operating profit, and employee population varies by level and geography, operating cash ow as being relevant measures of butis broadly consistent with that of directors: Pearsons performance against its short-term strategic objectives and business priorities.
The approach to setting base salary increases elsewhere in the company takes into account In the case of long-term incentives, the committee economic factors, competitive market rates, roles, choseearnings per share growth in order to reward skills, experience and individual performance.
thedelivery of the desired outcomes from the Allowances and benefits for employees reflect the strategic effort and because strong bottom-line local labour market in which they are based.
growth is imperative if we are to improve our total shareholder return and our return on invested capital.
As part of their overall retirement arrangements, We chose return on invested capital because, over the executive directors participate in the same past few years, the transformation of Pearson has underlying pension arrangements that have been signicantly increased the capital invested in the setup for Pearson employees in the US and the UK.
business mostly inthe form of goodwill associated Many employees participate in some form of cashwith acquisitions and required substantial cash based annual incentive, bonus, profit-share or sales investment to integrate those acquisitions.
Annual incentive plans for the total shareholder return relative to the constituents Pearson Executive form the basis of the annual ofthe FTSE World Media Index because, in line with incentive plans below the level of the principal many of our shareholders, we felt that part of operating companies and establish performance executive directors rewards should be linked to measures and standards and set the ceiling for performance relative to the companys peers.
The performance ranges chosen set a careful balance Approximately 5% of the companys employees between upside opportunity and downside risk and below the Pearson Executive selected on the basis arenormally based on targets in accordance with the oftheir role, performance and potential currently companys operating and strategic plans.
hold time-vesting shares under the long-term incentiveplan.
Legacy arrangements under the annual bonus share All employees including executive directors are matching plan alsoeligible to participate in savings-related share acquisition programmes in the UK, US and the Up to and including 2013 in respect of annual incentives restofthe world, which are not subject to any for 2012, awards were made under the annual bonus performance conditions.
This plan encouraged executive directors and other senior managers to acquire and Pay and performance scenario analysis hold Pearson shares and aligned the interests of executives and shareholders.
Senior managers across Consistent with its policy, the committee places the company were invited to invest up to 50% of their considerable emphasis on the performance-linked after-tax annual incentive in Pearson shares purchased elements i. e. annual and long-term incentives.
in the market and hold these shares for three years, The chart overleaf shows what each director inreturn for the opportunity to earn additional free couldexpect to receive in 2014 under different matching shares and dividend shares, depending on performance scenarios, based on the following performance against areal growth in earnings per denitions of performance: share performance condition.
Where matching shares vest, participants also receive additional shares representing the gross value of dividends that would have been paid on the matching shares during the performance period and reinvested.
The maximum matching award is equal to the number ofshares that
