OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 83 Allowances and benets PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY Help to recruit and retain.
The provision and level of cash allowances and noncash benets are competitive and appropriate in the Reflect local competitive market.
context of the local market.
OPERATION The total value of cash allowances and non-cash Allowances and benets comprise cash allowances and benets for executive directors will not ordinarily non-cash benets and inter alia include: travel-related exceed 15% of base salary in any year.
The benets comprising company car, car allowance and committee will retain the discretion to deliver a total private use of a driver : health-related benets value of benets in excess of 15% of base salary in comprising health care, health assessment and gym specic individual situations including changes in subsidy : and risk benets comprising additional life individual circumstances such as health status, cover and long-term disability insurance that are not changes in the role such as relocation, increases in covered by the companys retirement plans.
the cost of current benets that are outside Allowances may also include, where appropriate, company control, and changes in benets providers.
location and market premium and housing allowance Executive directors are also eligible to participate in although no continuing director is in receipt of such savings-related share acquisition programmes in the allowances.
Allowances and benets received in 2013 UK, US and rest of world, which are not subject to are set out in the annual remuneration report.
anyperformance conditions, on the same terms as Directors are also covered by the companys other employees.
directors and officers liability insurance and an PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS indemnity in respect of certain third-party liabilities.
Other benets may be offered on the same terms asto other employees.
PERFORMANCE PERIOD Allowances and benets do not form part of None.
No malus or clawback provisions apply to allowances and benets.
Retirement benets PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY Under the 401 k plan in the US, which is a dened contribution plan, account balances will be used to Help to recruit and retain.
In the event of death Recognise long-term commitment to the company.
before retirement, the account balances will be used OPERATION to provide benets for designated beneciaries.
New employees in the UK are eligible to join the Depending on when they joined the company, Money Purchase 2003 section of the Pearson Group directors may participate in the Final Pay section of Pension Plan.
New employees in the US are eligible the Pearson Group Pension Plan in the UK or the to join the 401 k plan.
dened benefit Pearson Inc. Pension Plan in the US, both of which are closed to new members.
Under the Money Purchase 2003 section of the Pearson Group Pension Plan in the UK, normal Under the Final Pay section of the Pearson Group retirement age is 62, but, subject to company Pension Plan in the UK, normal retirement age is 62, consent, retirement is currently possible from age 55 but, subject to company consent, retirement is or earlier in the event of ill-health.
During service, the currently possible from age 55 or earlier in the event company and the employee make contributions into of ill-health.
During service, the employee makes a a pension fund.
Account balances are used to provide contribution of 5% of pensionable salary and the benets at retirement.
Pensions for a members pension fund builds up based on final pensionable spouse, dependent children and or nominated salary and pensionable service.
The accrued pension financial dependants are payable on death.
is reduced on retirement prior to age 60.
Pensions for a members spouse, dependent children and or nominated financial dependants are payable on death.
