212 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Principal offices Pearson plc 80 Strand, London WC2R 0RL, UK T 44 0 20 7010 2000 F 44 0 20 7010 6060 firstname.
com Pearson Inc. 330 Hudson Street, New York City, NY 10013, USA T 1 212 390 7100 firstname.
com Pearson plc Registered number 53723 England Reliance on this document By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events Our Strategic report on pages 02 to 53 has been and depend on circumstances that will occur in the prepared in accordance with section 414 Duty to future.
There are a number of factors which could prepare a strategic report of the Companies Act cause actual results and developments to differ 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report materially from those expressed or implied by these Regulations 2013.
It also incorporates much of the forward-looking statements, including a number of guidance set out in the Accounting Standards Boards factors outside Pearsons control.
Any forwardReporting Statement on the Operating and looking statements speak only as of the date they are Financial Review.
made, and Pearson gives no undertaking to update The intention of this document is to provide forward-looking statements to reect any changes in information to shareholders and is not designed its expectations with regard thereto or any changes to toberelied upon by any other party or for any events, conditions or circumstances on which any such other purpose.
Forward-looking statements This document contains forward-looking statements which are made by the directors in good faith based on information available to them at the time of approval of this report.
In particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections with respect to future matters, including trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of interest or exchange rates, the availability of nancing, anticipated costs savings and synergies and the execution of Pearsons strategy, are forward-looking statements.
Design and Production: Radley Yeldar London www.
com This report has been printed on Edixion Challenger Print: Pureprint Group Offset which is FSC certied and made from 100% Elemental Chlorine Free ECF pulp.
The mill and the Pearson has supported the planting of 400 square metres printer are both certied to ISO 14001 environmental of new native woodland with the Woodland Trust, helping management system and registered to EMAS the eco to remove 16 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions generated management Audit Scheme.
The report was printed by the production of this report.
using vegetable based inks by a CarbonNeutral printer.
