80 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report on directors remuneration continued for performance-related long-term incentive awards Introduction for members of the Pearson Executive, performance The rest of this report on directors remuneration will continue to be tested over three years and 75% of comprises: the vested shares will continue to be released at that point.
However, starting with awards for 2014, there the directors remuneration policy report a forwardwill be a mandatory restriction on participants ability looking statement on remuneration policy for 2014 and to dispose of the 75% of the vested shares other than beyond: and to meet personal tax liabilities for a further two years.
the annual remuneration report a report on Furthermore, participants rights to the release of the remuneration practice in 2013.
25% of the vested shares will be subject to continued Together, this report was compiled in accordance with employment over the same period Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies we have affirmed our commitment to share ownership and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment and increased our mandatory shareholding guidelines Regulations 2008 and was approved by the board of to 300% of salary for the CEO and 200% of salary for directors on 10 March 2014. other executive directors compared to 200% and The committee believes that the company has 125% respectively.
We will continue to set complied with the provisions regarding remuneration performance targets for our annual and long-term matters contained within the UK Corporate incentive arrangements that are appropriately Governance Code.
stretching on incentive pay-outs, we have clarified our Where required under current regulations, the arrangements for adjusting for malus and strengthened following tables have been subject to audit: our provisions for clawback.
single total figure of remuneration and prior year We are confident that these changed remuneration comparison page 97 arrangements will better suit the needs of Pearson remuneration paid to the chairman and non-executive going forward.
directors page 98 Our policy and implementation is summarised in more retirement benefits page 101 detail in the remainder of this report.
details of long-term share interests including awards made in 2013 pages 102 to 105.
I look forward to the ongoing support of Pearson shareholders on both the advisory vote on the payments to former directors pages 105 and 106 executive remuneration arrangements as they were payments for loss of office page 107 operated in the year as well as the forward-looking interests of directors and value of shareholdings remuneration policy which is the subject of the page 108 binding vote.
I am personally committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders regarding executive remuneration and would therefore welcome any observations or questions that individual shareholders may wish to put forward to me.
I can be contacted at david.
Finally, I would like to thank my fellow members of the committee and the people who have assisted us for their contribution over the past year.
Yours sincerely, David Arculus Chairman, remuneration committee
