OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 83 Allowances and benets PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPPORTUNITY Help to recruit and retain.
The provision and level of cash allowances and noncash benets are competitive and appropriate in the Reflect local competitive market.
context of the local market.
OPERATION The total value of cash allowances and non-cash Allowances and benets comprise cash allowances and benets for executive directors will not ordinarily non-cash benets and inter alia include: travel-related exceed 15% of base salary in any year.
The benets comprising company car, car allowance and committee will retain the discretion to deliver a total private use of a driver : health-related benets value of benets in excess of 15% of base salary in comprising health care, health assessment and gym specic individual situations including changes in subsidy : and risk benets comprising additional life individual circumstances such as health status, cover and long-term disability insurance that are not changes in the role such as relocation, increases in covered by the companys retirement plans.
the cost of current benets that are outside Allowances may also include, where appropriate, company control, and changes in benets providers.
location and market premium and housing allowance Executive directors are also eligible to participate in although no continuing director is in receipt of such savings-related share acquisition programmes in the allowances.
Allowances and benets received in 2013 UK, US and rest of world, which are not subject to are set out in the annual remuneration report.
anyperformance conditions, on the same terms as Directors are also covered by the companys other employees.
directors and officers liability insurance and an PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS indemnity in respect of certain third-party liabilities.
Other benets may be offered on the same terms asto other employees.
PERFORMANCE PERIOD Allowances and benets do not form part of None.
No malus or clawback provisions apply to allowances and benets.
Retirement benets PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY Under the 401 k plan in the US, which is a dened contribution plan, account balances will be used to Help to recruit and retain.
In the event of death Recognise long-term commitment to the company.
before retirement, the account balances will be used OPERATION to provide benets for designated beneciaries.
New employees in the UK are eligible to join the Depending on when they joined the company, Money Purchase 2003 section of the Pearson Group directors may participate in the Final Pay section of Pension Plan.
New employees in the US are eligible the Pearson Group Pension Plan in the UK or the to join the 401 k plan.
dened benefit Pearson Inc. Pension Plan in the US, both of which are closed to new members.
Under the Money Purchase 2003 section of the Pearson Group Pension Plan in the UK, normal Under the Final Pay section of the Pearson Group retirement age is 62, but, subject to company Pension Plan in the UK, normal retirement age is 62, consent, retirement is currently possible from age 55 but, subject to company consent, retirement is or earlier in the event of ill-health.
During service, the currently possible from age 55 or earlier in the event company and the employee make contributions into of ill-health.
During service, the employee makes a a pension fund.
Account balances are used to provide contribution of 5% of pensionable salary and the benets at retirement.
Pensions for a members pension fund builds up based on final pensionable spouse, dependent children and or nominated salary and pensionable service.
The accrued pension financial dependants are payable on death.
is reduced on retirement prior to age 60.
Pensions for a members spouse, dependent children and or nominated financial dependants are payable on death.
84 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report on directors remuneration continued Retirement benets continued In the US, the dened benefit Pearson Inc. Pension OPPORTUNITY Plan provides a lump sum benefit that is convertible In the UK, company contributions for eligible to an annuity on retirement.
The lump sum benefit employees to the Money Purchase 2003 section of accrued at an age dependent percentage of capped thePearson Group Pension Plan amount up to 16% compensation until 31 December 2001 when further ofpensionable salary double the amount of the benefit accruals ceased for most employees.
employee contribution, which is limited according Employees who satisfied criteria of age and service tocertain age bands.
as of 30 November 1998 continue to earn benets In the US, company contributions to the 401 k plan under an alternative formula that provides for 1.5% amount to 100% of the first 3% of eligible of final average earnings, adjusted for US Social compensation contributed by the employee and 50% Security.
The benefit paid to these employees is the of the next 3%, plus a basic annual company maximum of the lump sum benefit converted to an contribution of 1.25% of eligible compensation.
annuity and the benefit earned under the alternative Pearson Inc. Pension Plan participants who were at final average earnings formula.
least age 40 at 31 December 2001 can receive an Executive directors and other executives across the additional 0.5% to 1.5% of pay.
company may be entitled to additional pension John Fallon is a member of the Final Pay section of benets to take account of the cap on the amount of the Pearson Group Pension Plan.
His pension accrual benets that can be provided from the all-employee rate is 1 30th of pensionable salary per annum, pension arrangements in the US and the UK.
restricted to the plan earnings cap.
Until April 2006, Members of the Pearson Group Pension Plan who the company also contributed to a Funded joined after May 1989 are subject to an upper limit Unapproved Retirement Benets Scheme FURBS of earnings that can be used for pension purposes, on his behalf.
Since April 2006, he has received a known as the earnings cap.
This limit, 108,600 as at taxable and non-pensionable cash supplement in 6April 2006, was abolished by the Finance Act 2004. replacement of the FURBS.
However the Pearson Group Pension Plan has Robin Freestone is a member of the Money Purchase retained its own cap, which will increase annually in 2003 section of the Pearson Group Pension Plan.
line with the UK Governments Index of Retail Prices Company contributions are 16% of pensionable All Items.
The cap was 137,400 as at 6 April 2012. salary per annum, restricted to the plan earnings Asa result of the UK Governments A-Day changes cap.
Until April 2006, the company also contributed effective from April 2006, UK executive directors to a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benets and other members of the Pearson Group Pension Scheme FURBS on his behalf.
Since April 2006, Plan who are, or become, affected by the lifetime hehas received a taxable and non-pensionable allowance or new hires who opt out of membership cashsupplement in replacement of the FURBS.
of the Plan may be provided with a cash supplement The company has no ongoing financial liabilities in of normally up to 26% of salary as an alternative to respect of FURBS.
further accrual of pension benets.
No continuing director is currently a member of No malus or clawback provisions apply to thedened benefit Pearson Inc. Pension Plan.
Note Effective from 6 April 2011, the annual allowance i. e. the maximum PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS amount of pension saving that benets from tax relief each year reduced from 255,000 to 50,000 and will further reduce to 40,000 from 6 April None.
Effective 6 April 2012, the lifetime allowance i. e. the maximum amount of pension and or lump sum that can benefit from tax relief reduced from PERFORMANCE PERIOD 1.8m to 1.5m and will further reduce to 1.25m from 6 April 2014.
