OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 85 Annual incentives For the chief executive, other executive directors PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY and other members of the Pearson Executive, there Motivate the achievement of annual strategic goals is normally no pay-out for performance at threshold.
No adjustment has been made to annual incentive Provide a focus on key financial metrics.
opportunities for the cessation of the annual bonus Reward individual contribution to the success of share matching plan under which the last conditional thecompany.
awards were made in 2013 in respect of 2012 annual OPERATION incentive.
Annual incentive is delivered entirely in cash and PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS does not form part of pensionable earnings.
The committee has the discretion to select the Measures and performance targets are set by the performance measures, targets and relative committee at the startof the year with payment weightings from year to year to ensure continuing made after year end following the committees alignment with strategy and to ensure targets are assessment of performance relative to targets.
The plans are designed to incentivise and reward The committee establishes a threshold below which underlying performance and actual results are no pay-out is achieved and a maximum at or above adjusted for the effect of foreign exchange and for which the annual incentive pays out in full.
portfolio changes acquisitions and disposals and For 2014 and onwards, the funding of annual other factors that the committee considers relevant incentives will normally be related to the in the performance year.
performance against targets for Pearsons adjusted Annual incentive plans are discretionary.
The earnings per share oroperating profit, sales, and committee reserves the right to adjust payments operating cash ow.
For 2014, the weightings will be upor down before they are made if it believes 60% on adjusted earnings per share, 20% on sales exceptional factors warrant doing so.
The and 20% on operating cash ow.
committee may in exceptional circumstances make Individual annual incentive pay-outs will also take aspecial award where it is satisfied that the normal into account individual performance against personal operation of the annual incentive does not provide objectives.
Personal objectives are agreed with the an appropriate incentive or reward to participants.
chief executive or, in the case of the chief executive, The committee also reserves the right as a form the chairman and may be functional, operational, ofmalus to adjust payments before they are made strategic and non-financial and include inter alia ifspecial circumstances exist that warrant this, such objectives relating to environmental, social and asnancial misstatement, individual misconduct governance issues.
orreputational damage to the company.
Details of performance measures, weightings and The committee also reserves, in the same special targets will be disclosed in the annual remuneration circumstances, a right to reclaim or claw back report for the relevant financial year if and to the payments or awards that have already been made.
extent that the committee deems them to be no longer commercially sensitive.
OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE PERIOD Annual incentives will not exceed 200% of base salary.
For the chief executive, the individual maximum incentive opportunity that will apply for 2014 is 180% of base salary which is the same as applied for 2013.
For other executive directors and other members ofthe Pearson Executive, individual maximum incentive opportunities vary by individual but will be no more than 170% of base salary.
