90 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Report on directors remuneration continued have regard to the recruits existing arrangements, the The company may, depending on the circumstances market norms in the home country and the existing ofthe termination, determine that it will not pay the pension vehicles available within thecompany.
director in lieu of notice and may instead terminate adirectors contract in breach and make a damages In making any decision on any aspect of the payment, taking into account as appropriate the remuneration package for a new recruit, the committee directors ability to mitigate his or her loss.
would balance shareholder expectations, current best practice and the requirements of any new recruit and On cessation of employment, save as otherwise would strive not to pay more than is necessary to provided for under the rules of Pearsons discretionary achieve the recruitment.
The committee would give full share plans, executive directors entitlements to any details of the terms of the package of any new recruit in unvested awards lapse automatically.
In the case of injury, the next annual remuneration report.
disability, ill-health or redundancy as determined by the committee, where a participants employing Pearson expects any new chairman or non-executive company ceases to be part of Pearson, or any other director to be engaged on terms that are consistent with reason if the committee so decides in its absolute the general remuneration principles outlined in the discretion: relevant sections of this policy.
However, in the case of the chairman, the committee may consider it awards that are subject to performance conditions appropriate to offer a remuneration package that differs will stay in force as if the participant had not ceased from that of the existing incumbent if that is necessary to employment and shall vest on the original attract the most capable candidate or to reect the vesting date: individuals expected duties.
awards that are not subject to a performance condition will be released as soon as practicable Service contracts and termination provisions following cessation of employment: the number of shares that are released shall be In accordance with long established policy, all prorated for the period of the participants service in executive directors have service agreements under the restricted period although the committee may which, other than by termination in accordance with inits absolute discretion waive or vary the prorating.
the terms of these agreements, employment continues indefinitely.
In determining whether and how to exercise its discretion under Pearsons discretionary share plans, There are no special provisions for notice or the committee will have regard to all relevant compensation in the event of a change of control circumstances distinguishing between different types ofPearson.
of leaver, the circumstances at the time the award was It is the companys policy that the company may originally made, the directors performance and the terminate the chairmans and executive directors service circumstances in which the director left employment.
agreements by giving no more than 12 months notice.
On cessation of employment, executive directors, As an alternative, for executive directors the company having been notied of participation in an annual may at its discretion pay in lieu of that notice.
incentive plan for the relevant financial year, may, at Payment-in-lieu of notice may be made in equal the committees discretion, retain entitlement to a monthly instalments from the date of termination to prorata annual incentive for their period of service in the end of any unexpired notice period.
In the case of the financial year prior to their leaving date.
Such paythe CEO, payment-in-lieu of notice in instalments may out will normally be calculated in good faith on the also be subject to mitigation and reduced taking into same terms and paid at the same time as for account earnings from alternative employment.
For executive directors, pay in lieu of notice comprises Eligibility for allowances and benets including 100% of the annual salary at the date of termination retirement benets normally ceases on retirement and the annual cost to the company of providing oron the termination of employment for any pension and all other benets.
payin lieu of notice comprises 100% of the annual Details of each individuals service agreement are feesat the date of termination.
In limited outlinedin the table overleaf.
Employment agreements circumstances, in addition to making a full payment for other employees are determined according to inlieu of notice, thecompany may permit an executive local labour law and marketpractice.
director to stay employed after the announcement of his or her departure for a limited period to ensure an effective hand-over and or allow time for a successor to be appointed.
