Notes to the Group financialstatements Year ended 31 December 2013 1.
Accounting policies General Information Perform Group plc is a public limited liability company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Sussex House, Plane Tree Crescent, Feltham, Middlesex, TW13 7HE.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Report on page 54.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out below.
Adoption of new and revised standards IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement The Group has applied IFRS 13 for the first time in the current year.
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures about fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal or most advantageous market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
IFRS 13 requires prospective disclosure from 1 January 2013.
In accordance with these transitional provisions, other than additional disclosures presented, the application of IFRS 13 has not had any material impact on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements.
Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income This amendment requires items of other comprehensive income to be grouped by those items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and those that will never be reclassified, together with their associated income tax.
The amendments have been applied retrospectively, and hence the presentation of items of comprehensive income have been restated to reflect the change.
The effect of these changes is evident from the condensed consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
New and revised Standards on consolidation, joint arrangements, associates and disclosure In May 2011, a package of five standards on consolidation, joint arrangements, associates and disclosures was issued comprising IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, IAS 27 as revised in 2011 Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 as revised in 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
The Group have applied these standards for the first time in the current year, although there has been no material impact on the results, disclosures or financial position of the Group.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2015 : Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 effective 1 January 2014 : Mandatory Effective Date and Transition Disclosures Amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7 effective 1 January 2015 : Investment Entities Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 effective 1 January 2014 : and IFRIC 21 Levies effective 1 January 2014.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods except that IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of Financial Instruments.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
Basis of accounting The Groups consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with applicable International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments that are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period, as explained in the accounting policies below.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
92 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved when the Company: has power over the investee: is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement with the investee: and has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins where the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company loses control of the subsidiary.
Specifically, the results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the date the Company gains control until the date when the Company ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests.
Total comprehensive income of the subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between the members of the Group are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interests of non-controlling shareholders may be initially measured at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement is made on an acquisition by acquisition basis.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Changes in the Groups interest in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amount of the Groups interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Company.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the gain or loss on disposal recognised in profit or loss is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, less liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
All amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities of the subsidiary i. e reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another category of equity as specified permitted by applicable IFRS.
The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, when applicable, the costs on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity.
Going concern The Group had cash balances of 101.0 million at the year end and 48.3 million of debt relating to borrowings.
Having reviewed cash flow forecasts and budgets the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has sufficient resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further detail is contained in the Directors statement of going concern in the Directors Report see page 57. Business combinations On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 1.
Accounting policies continued Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Contingent and deferred consideration arising as a result of acquisitions is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination.
Contingent and deferred consideration is based on managements best estimate of the likely outcome and best estimate of fair value, which is usually, but not always, a contracted formula based on a multiple of EBITDA.
The contingent and deferred consideration is recorded as a liability and changes in fair value that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the measurement period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent and deferred consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how this is classified.
Contingent and deferred consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent and deferred consideration that is classified as an asset or liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, or IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
To the extent that contingent consideration is substantively linked to employment or service conditions, where the selling shareholders continue to provide post-combination services those payments will be charged to the Income Statement as a remuneration over the relevantperiod.
Where the Group has an option to acquire a non-controlling interest in a subsidiary the fair value of that option is recognised as a liability with a corresponding movement in reserves, in accordance with IAS 27.
The changes in fair value of the option at each reporting date are recognised in the Income Statement.
If the contingent consideration is subject to service-related provisions it is charged through the Income Statement as a service cost over the relevant period.
However, if there are no service related conditions, the changes in the fair value are recognised in the Income Statement as a finance cost.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
Additional consideration and details with respect to the Groups policies relating to the acquisition of non-controlling interests and contingent consideration are set out in critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty below.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest if any in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after re-assessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is internally monitored for impairment purposes at the level of the Groups single operating segment accordingly the Group only has one cash-generating unit CGU for impairment testing purposes.
The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of the Groups CGU is determined from value in use calculations.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation is treated as an asset of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
94 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Revenue recognition Revenue represents amounts derived from the provision of services falling within the Groups continuing ordinary activities, after the deduction of value added tax.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable.
Content distribution Content distribution relates to sales of the Groups Watch&Bet, Opta, Omnisport, GSM, WatchandTrade and RunningBall products.
Content distribution revenue is recognised over the course of the contract using a stage of completion method.
Stage of completion is measured as the ratio of value of content delivered to date to total value of content to be delivered over the life of the contract period.
Anycontent distribution monies received in advance of the contract commencing are recognised in current liabilities as deferred income.
Subscription Sales of online subscription products, mobile downloads, online pay-per-view transactions and sms alerts are recognised on a gross basis evenly over the period in which the service is provided by the Group.
The clients shares of such revenues are shown within cost of sales.
Technology and production Service fees generated from the ongoing provision of website servicing, maintenance and hosting to customers are recognised in line with the service delivery to the customer, which is usually evenly across a contractual period.
Fees arising from the building of products for customers or for structural enhancements to existing customer products are recognised in line with contractual milestones which reflect the stage of completion during the contractual build period.
Advertising and sponsorship display and video Revenue related to sponsorship activity is recognised in line with the services physically delivered compared to the services specified within a contract agreed with an advertiser.
Revenue related to display and video advertising is recognised based on the number of advertising impressions physically delivered compared to the required number of advertising impressions included within a contract agreed with either a brand or an advertising agency.
Where the Group is selling advertising to a third-party website, revenue is recognised on a gross basis as the Company bears the credit risk.
Content costs The Group typically licenses the right from sports associations, sports bodies, leagues or their agents or partners to supply live sports content to online bookmakers and or to supply aggregated non-exclusive video-on-demand typically highlights via the Groups embeddable video player embedded on publisher websites or distributed in a news feed typically highlights.
The rights the Group licenses are for a fixed period of time, typically three years.
The rights are generally paid in instalments over the length of the contract, typically quarterly in advance and as such the Group will recognise a prepayment.
Previously the Group recognised an expense for sports streaming rights when the sporting event was streamed.
During the year the Group invested significantly in new rights for the 2014-16 W&B licence period and growth of the ePlayer globally and as a result the Directors determined that the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits attributed to those rights would not follow the previously applied pattern, with greater weight being attributed to the 2014-2016 events than the 2013 events.
The Group now amortises its payments for sports streaming rights to cost of sales, based on a weighting of when the value of the rights will be returned, over a period not exceeding the contractual period.
See Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty on page 100 for furtherdetail.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 1.
Accounting policies continued Exceptional items The Group aggregates, highlights and separately presents significant income or costs due to their nature within its Income Statement.
TheDirectors consider that this presentation provides a more helpful analysis of the Groups underlying performance particularly when it is undertaking acquisitions.
The policy requires the Directors to exercise judgement in determining such items.
Items which may be included within this category include: Costs directly relating to acquisition activity including earn-out related incentive arrangements classified as remuneration, changes to the assessment of acquisition-related financial liabilities, consultancy, legal, finance and other professional adviser costs that otherwise would not have been incurred had the acquisition not occurred: Acquisition integration costs including dual-running costs, contracts identified as onerous as a consequence of integration decisions, consultancy, redundancy, and project management and related costs which may include those of employed staff specifically engaged to assist the integration of acquisitions : Reorganisation and restructuring costs including dual-running costs, contracts identified as onerous as a consequence of reorganisation or restructuring decisions, consultancy redundancy, and project management and related restructuring costs which may include those of employed staff specifically engaged for a limited period of time to assist the management of reorganisations and restructures : Significant unforeseen gains losses arising on foreign exchange assets or liabilities relating to non-trading items such as contingent consideration or bank loans: and Other particularly significant or unusual items which may include but are not limited to profits or losses on disposal or termination of operations or assets, litigation costs and settlements.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value, or if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance expenses are recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Income Statement over the term of the relevant lease and in accordance with the terms of the relevant leases.
Operating lease costs relating to accommodation are recognised in the Income Statement under Administrative expenses.
In the event that lease incentives are received to enter into operating leases, such incentives are recognised as a liability.
The aggregate benefit of incentives is recognised as a reduction of rental expense on a straight-line basis, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are retranslated to pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are re-translated at the rates prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated to pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group elected to treat goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as sterling-denominated assets and liabilities.
96 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred, except to the extent that these are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets.
Such borrowing costs are added to the cost of those assets.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated before investment income and finance costs.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of the deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity or other comprehensive income.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is recognised as an administrative expense and provided on all property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write each asset down to its residual value, using the straight-line method, over its expected useful life as follows: Freehold land and buildings indefinite life Internet hosting platform three years Office furniture and equipment three years Leasehold improvements three years Motor vehicles three years Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Intangible assets computer software development Where in the opinion of the Directors, the Groups expenditure in relation to development of software results in future economic benefits, these costs including directly attributable overheads are capitalised and amortised over the useful economic life of the asset.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 1.
Accounting policies continued Development costs are capitalised only when it is probable that future economic benefit will result from the project and the following criteria are met: the technical feasibility of the product has been ascertained: adequate technical, financial and other resources are available to complete and sell or use the intangible asset: the Group can demonstrate how the intangible asset will generate future economic benefits and the ability to use or sell the intangible asset can be demonstrated: it is the intention of management to complete the intangible asset and use it or sell it: and the development costs can be measured reliably.
Where these criteria are not met development costs are charged to the Income Statement as incurred.
Amortisation is recognised as an administrative expense and provided on computer software development at a rate calculated to write each asset down to its estimated residual value assumed to be nil, using the straight-line method, over three years.
Methods of amortisation, residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each reporting date.
Intangible assets other Identifiable intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations, that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Amortisation is recognised as an administration expense and amortised, on a straightline basis, over their useful economic life on the followingbasis: Trademarks domain names URLs twenty years Database content three to twelve years Customer relationships three to twelve years Website architecture three to twelve years Software three to twelve years After consideration by the Directors in light of the size of the acquisitions, the nature of the assets acquired, competitive benchmarking and external valuation advice received, the Directors have concluded that it was appropriate for the trademarks and domain names to be written off over twenty years.
Had this change occurred at 1 January 2012 intangible asset amortisation would have increased by 0.5 million for the year ended 31 December 2012 and 0.4 million for the period ended 30 June 2013.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, tangible and intangible assets and intangible assets not yet available for use to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the assets is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit product to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value, less costs to sell, and the value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows, which are based on budgeted figures, are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
98 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Financial liability and equity Financial liability and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with an interest expense recognised on an effective interest basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating the interest expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Derivative financial instruments From time to time the Group enters into certain financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk including foreign exchange vanilla options and interest rate swaps.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 22.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Other derivatives are presented as current assets or currentliabilities.
In the event a premium is paid for a derivative financial instrument, this premium is recognised over the life of the relevant contract.
In addition, certain of the Groups acquisitions contain an option to acquire non-controlling interests at specified dates in the future for either fixed or variable future payments.
The accounting for these options is set out in Business Combinations pages 93 and 94.
Trade receivables and other receivable financial assets Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their fair value on initial recognition plus transaction costs if any and carried at amortised cost under the effective interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, deposits receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates of three months or less from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and which form an integral part of the Groups cash management are also included as a component of cash and cash equivalents where offset conditions are met.
Trade and otherpayables Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at their fair value on initial recognition plus transaction costs if any and carried at amortised cost.
The fair value of trade and other payables has not been disclosed as, due to their short duration, Management considers the carrying values recognised in the balance sheet to be a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instrument at the grant date.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
Details regarding the determination of the fair value of equity-settled sharebased transactions are set out in note 26.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the non-market based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
The fair value of SAYE share options is recognised as an expense and adjusted to reflect the number of shares expected to vest.
SAYE share options granted to employees are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme.
This results in accelerated recognition of the expenses that would have arisen over the remainder of the original vesting period.
For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss for the year.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 1.
Accounting policies continued Pension The Group makes contributions on behalf of employees to an independent, defined contribution pension scheme.
The Group has no further legal obligation to pay contributions after the payment of its fixed contribution that is matched by an employee.
These contributions are recognised as an expense in the period the relevant employee services are received.
Segmental reporting In accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments, operating segments are reporting in a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board of Directors, the chief operating decision maker.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 1, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies The items below are critical judgements that the Directors believe have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in these financial statements: Content costs The Group typically licenses the right from sports associations, sports bodies, leagues or their agents or partners to supply live sports content to online bookmakers and or to supply aggregated non-exclusive video-on-demand typically highlights via the Groups embeddable video player embedded on publisher websites or distributed in a news feed typically highlights.
The rights are generally paid in instalments over the length of the contract, typically quarterly in advance and as such the Group recognises a prepayment.
During the year the Group invested significantly in new rights for the 2014-16 W&B licence period and growth of the ePlayer globally and as a result the Directors determined that the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits attributed to those rights would not follow the previously applied pattern with greater weight being attributed to the 2014-2016 events than the 2013 events.
Consequently an additional 6.4 million of rights were categorised as a prepayment at 31 December 2013.
Had this change in estimate been undertaken in the half year financial statements for 2013, an additional 1.0 million would have been categorised as a prepayment at 30 June 2013.
Whilst in substance the sports rights are intangible assets, given their nature they are not capable of recognition as an intangible asset until the sports event occurs, at which time an asset is capable of recognition.
The rights may relate to individual events such as an international football match or a series of sporting events such as a football league season.
In contrast to, say, an acquired film licence, a sports right is not based on an exploitation right protected by copyright.
Rather the organiser declares to the Group that it will waive the exercise of its own rights to stream the sport to the sportsbooks.
A sports broadcasting right arises when the sporting event is actually held, broadcast or streamed.
The intellectual property relating to a sporting event is only created once the sporting event has actually been held.
If the rights relate to a series of sporting events, such as the streaming of football league matches for an entire season, the sports right has the characteristics of a successive supply agreement because the required performance by the organiser in the form of the above mentioned waiver of the exercise of its rights to stream the sport only happens on the relevant match day.
In the case of rights for video-on-demand offerings, these highlights are generally viewed on publisher websites very soon after the event and unlike a film or TV programming are generally viewed significantly less as time passes after the original event.
The Group has considered whether there is any residual value to such video-on-demand offerings and concluded that any value would be minimal and not material.
100 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements The amounts to be paid are based on the sports events to be streamed.
There is no minimum amount that would be payable if the event does not occur.
No payment is made if a match is postponed.
Payments are made for the value of the future events and not for a right to future content.
Any advance payments made of when the event is held and when the expense is recognised represent a pre-payment of the rights or the organisers waiver of the exercise of its rights not to stream the sport.
In substance part of the pre-payment becomes an intangible asset when the event or tournament takes place and is simply expensed to match the revenue recognised.
Commitment to acquire content rights The Group has commitments to acquire internet content rights.
As at 31 December 2013 these commitments total 114 million 2012: 84million.
The Directors do not consider this commitment to be a financial liability as this commitment relates to future payments for future sporting events that the Group has acquired the right to stream.
For the reasons set out above and as the organiser declares it waives the exercise of its own rights to stream the sport, the Group does not consider it meets the criteria for recognition of an intangible asset nor does it consider it has a financial liability in accordance with IAS 39 until the sporting event has been delivered.
Whilst the Group has a commitment to make these payments, such payments are dependent on the sporting events occurring.
In the event that a particular event or set of events does not occur the Group would not be required to make all, or part of, the committed payments referred to above.
In the light of this, the Group considers the long-term contract to contain a number of executory components and, therefore, does not consider the future amounts payable that are conditional on the occurrence of the sporting event and the delivery by the rights owner of the live stream to be a financial liability as neither party has performed any of its obligations relating to the future sporting events.
Segmental reporting In accordance with IFRS 8, operating segments are reporting in a manner that is consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Board of Directors, the chief operating decision maker.
The performance of the Group is monitored on the same basis as the Groups consolidatedaccounts.
Management information that is regularly reported to the Board for the purposes of allocating resources and monitoring performance is the monthly board pack.
The board pack contains an analysis of revenue for the Groups five activities.
It is the Directors assessment that the revenue only information reported in the monthly board pack does not constitute discrete financial information in the context of the definition of an operating segment as set out in IFRS 8.
The revenue information that is presented in note 3 is, however, considered to be useful information for the readers of our annual report and accounts.
The Group considers it only has a single operating segment.
The Board does not monitor the profitability of the five activities individually.
Whilst the Group reports its revenues across the five activities which is considered the most helpful and transparent for its investors operationally the Group has a number of products such as Watch&Bet that operate off one common technology platform, sets of rights typically cleared for all products and platforms and staff whosell, manage and produce this content across multiple products.
A key decision for the Board is whether to acquire a particular set of high value sports rights.
The Board make their decision based on whether the business, in aggregate, can generate revenue across the five activities for that set of sports rights in excess of the cost.
In light of the fact that value of acquired rights is typically not split between the Groups different products and platforms it is not possible to present a reliable, accurate or helpful measure of profitability to the Board and any profitability of the five activities would be arbitrary and unreliable for the purpose of making decisions and involve significant allocation and apportionment of Group wide costs.
Treatment of subsidiary undertakings and related deferred and or contingent consideration The Group has two subsidiaries, Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. Mackolik and Perform Sporting News Limited PSN, which were not wholly owned at the year end.
These have all been consolidated and included as subsidiary undertakings within the Groups financial statements.
The Directors have reviewed the accounting treatment of each subsidiary to confirm that they should not be accounted for as joint ventures.
In each case these reviews concluded that the Group had effective control either through its actual influence on the strategic and operational policies of the companies exposure to a variable return from its involvement and through its contractual rights to acquire 100% control of voting equity.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 1.
Accounting policies continued Perform Sporting News Limited PSN In March 2013 the Group partnered with American City Business Journals ACBJ to establish a new company, Perform Sporting News PSN, As part of the agreement, the Group is entitled to buy out ACBJs equity at any time for a pre-determined cash price of $65 million, before 1 January 2017, or $75 million, between 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2018 except for the months of April and May in each year and $85million after 1 January 2019 except for during the months of April and May.
The Group also has the option between 1 April and 30 April in every year commencing with 2017 to buy out ACBJs equity based on a multiple of PSNs EBITDA for the financial years ending on the prior 31 December.
The consideration will be subject to a minimum value of $35 million and a maximum value of $85 million.
If the Group does not exercise its option in April 2017 or any April thereafter, ACBJ will have the option between 1 May and 31 May in each year to acquire the Groups shareholding based on a multiple of PSNs EBITDA for the financial year ending the prior 31 December.
The Group has considered the fair value of this financial asset.
Based on an assessment of future forecasts the option has no significant value at the year end.
Mackolik The Mackolik Sale and Purchase Agreement contains a forward contract to enable the Group to acquire the remaining 49% interest in 2016.
The Directors have judged that this does not result in a 100% acquisition on the acquisition date.
The sellers of the 49% interest remain exposed to the risks and rewards of ownership the distributable profit of the company will be distributed pro-rata to the share ownership until the point at which the Group acquires the remaining 49% until these shares are acquired by the Group.
The Group have obtained an independent valuation of what the forward contract to acquire the 49% of the controlled subsidiary is worth in 2016 and as the risks and rewards of owning the 49% will not be transferred to the Group until actual payment is made in 2016, in accordance with IAS 32 and 39, the Group have recorded a liability with a corresponding debit to equity for the present value of 14.9million of the independently valued liability.
Whilst there are no employment provisions connected to the payment of the contingent consideration, there are certain service-related provisions contained within the Sale and Purchase Agreement.
As such it is the Directors view that any difference between the independent valuation of the forward contract and the present value of the amount the Group expects to pay must be related to those service-related provisions.
As such any difference will be taken to the Income Statement as an acquisition-related service charge.
The Directors best estimate at the date of acquisition and at 31 December 2013 of the amount to be paid in 2016 is approximately 23 million.
The present value of this payment at the date of acquisition was 15.1 million.
Consequently, a 0.2 million service charge is being recognised in the Income Statement over the period from acquisition until the date of payment in 2016.
The Directors will re-assess their estimation of the final payment at each reporting date and any future differences will be charged or credited to the IncomeStatement.
The accretion in respect of the unwind of the discount being applied to the Directors best estimate of the final payment 23 million to present value 15.1 million is being recognised in the Income Statement as a finance charge over the period from the acquisition date to the date of the final payment in 2016.
The charge recognised in 2013 in respect of this accretion was 2.1 million 2012: 1 million.
In addition, distributable profits of Mackolik for each financial year between 2012 2015 will be distributed to the Group and other shareholders pro-rata to their respective holdings.
These contractual dividend payments represent an obligation to make payments to the shareholders and accordingly the present value of the expected future payments have been recorded as a liability with a corresponding entry recognised directly in equity.
The liability will be remeasured at each reporting date with any subsequent amendments being recognised as a service charge or credit through the Income Statement.
The Directors current best estimate of the undiscounted cash flows is approximately 6.0 million and discounted is 5.0 million.
The accretion in respect of the unwind of the discount being applied to the Directors best estimate of the final payment 6 million to present value 5 million is being recognised in the Income Statement as a finance charge over the period from the acquisition date to the date of the final payment in 2016.
The charge recognised in 2013 in respect of this accretion was 0.5 million 2012: 0.2 million.
The independent valuation of the option to acquire the 49% non-controlling interest of 14.9 million plus the present value of the future liability for the dividends of 4.9 million exceeds the payments for the 51% of 16.5 million including the working capital payment.
102 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Inaddition, the Sale and Purchase Agreement contains a provision which allows the shareholders to re-purchase the 51% in the event the Group does not purchase the non-controlling interest.
The independent valuer considers this has a discounted value of approximately 2 million.
The Directors believe that the remaining differential represents a discount on the fair value accepted by the sellers of the 51% stake, who have exited the business, in order to receive cash consideration upon disposal of 51% of their shares and to reduce any ongoing ownershiprisk.
Perform Media Sales Japan In June 2013 a new Japanese company Perform Media Sales Japan was incorporated.
The Group owns 70% of the share capital of the new company.
Perform Media Sales Japan acquired the assets of Ad Networks KK which had been the Japanese advertising sales agent for the Group in Japan.
The Group has the option to acquire the remaining 30% in 2017 based on a multiple of Perform Media Sales Japans 2016 EBITDA up to a maximum value of 12 million.
Spox Media GmbH and mediasports Digital GmbH The contingent consideration in respect of the acquisition of Spox Media GmbH and mediasports Digital GmbH is payable to the previous private equity owners and four other individuals, only two of whom are continuing to provide post-combination service.
The private equity owners were the majority shareholders in the business prior to the acquisition and the Group anticipates that approximately two-thirds of the contingent consideration will be payable to them.
The remaining third of the contingent consideration is split amongst the four individuals in proportion to their shareholdings.
The Directors view is that the amount allocated to the two individuals providing a continuing service is not material and as such no service-related charge has been recognised.
Contingent consideration Contingent consideration arising as a result of acquisitions is stated at fair value.
Contingent and deferred consideration is based on Managements best estimate of the likely outcome and best estimate of fair value, which is usually, but not always, a contracted formula based on a multiple of EBITDA.
Subscription and advertising sales revenue recognition The Group provides online and mobile subscription based products to its customers, usually via customer branded websites to end users.
The Group sets the price of these products, collects revenues and delivers the products, including after service customer care.
The Directors have reviewed the products and the nature of how they were supplied and concluded that the Group acts as Principal and accordingly revenue generated from these products should be shown as that of the Group with customer revenue share payments included in cost ofsales.
The Group sells online advertising inventory for a network of internet sites.
The Group has built this network and seeks advertising campaigns from brands and media agencies to deliver via this network.
The Group employs its sales staff at its own risk, effectively negotiates prices and delivers traffics the advertising campaigns.
The Directors have reviewed these arrangements and concluded that the Group acts as Principal and accordingly revenue generated from these products should be shown as that of the Group with customer internet sites revenue share payments included in cost of sales, rather than as an agent.
Internally generated software and research Management monitors progress of internal software development projects by using a project management system.
Significant judgement is required in distinguishing whether such development should be written off or capitalised.
Development costs are recognised as an asset when all the criteria are met, where this is not the case costs are not capitalised and are written off as incurred.
The Groups Management also monitors whether the recognition requirements for development costs continue to be met.
This is necessary as the economic success of any product development is uncertain and may be subject to future technical problems or developments after the time of recognition.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The estimates and assumptions, which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Where a source of uncertainty has been discussed above it has not been duplicated below.
Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the single cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 2.
Revenue 2013 2012 000 000 Rendering of services and revenue as disclosed in the consolidated income statement 208,135 151,607 Investment income 434 533 Total revenue as defined in IAS 18 208,569 152,140 3.
Segment information The Group considers it only has a single operating segment.
Refer to accounting policies critical judgements for an explanation of why the Directors have concluded this.
The Group has elected to present additional voluntary disclosures relating to revenue over and above the requirements of IFRS 8 in the following table.
The Group includes in its internal management reporting of revenue the following activities: Content distribution The Groups content distribution revenue is generated from the sales of the Watch&Bet, RunningBall and WatchandTrade services, suite of Omnisport products, Opta and GSM data products.
Subscription The Groups subscription revenue is generated by subscribers paying for web TV, mobile content and Livesport.
Advertising and sponsorship online video The Groups ePlayer generates pre-roll video advertising and sponsorship revenues.
Advertising and sponsorship online display The Group generates its online display revenues through sales of display inventory on Goal, Spox, Sportal.
fide, Mackolik, Soccerway and Sportal and on a network of third-party premium sports websites.
Technology and production The Group generates technology and production revenues from the design, build and management of website and mobile services and the production of live and video on demand content.
104 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Operating segment information for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012 is as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Revenue Content distribution 132,858 92,971 Subscription 14,155 12,341 Technology and production 13,196 14,609 Advertising and sponsorship video 19,589 13,275 Advertising and sponsorship display 28,337 18,411 Total revenue 208,135 151,607 Cost of sales Content 59,920 41,102 Publisher shares 9,275 6,397 Technical and software fees 10,937 7,807 Production 20,431 11,846 Total cost of sales 100,563 67,152 Gross profit 107,572 84,455 Staff costs 54,632 36,601 Other administrative costs 16,538 10,352 Adjusted EBITDA excluding exceptional items and share-based payments 36,402 37,502 Exceptional items 9,788 5,348 Exceptional share-based payments 1,228 Share-based payments 712 2,018 EBITDA 25,902 28,908 Amortisation and depreciation 8,317 6,486 Acquisition-related amortisation 6,034 2,908 Group operating profit 11,551 19,514 Investment income 434 533 Accretion of deferred consideration 4,009 1,862 Exceptional finance costs 1,429 Other finance costs 2,489 1,265 Group profit before tax 4,058 16,920 Total assets 458,180 300,403 Total liabilities 162,602 129,896 The Group is required to present geographical information relating to its revenues.
Revenues are attributed to territories in the followingways: Content distribution Watch&Bet and Subscription revenues are recognised in the territory where the end viewer is located: other content distribution Omnisport, Opta, WatchandTrade, RunningBall and GSM revenues are recognised where the contracting party is located which is typically where the service is delivered.
Technology and production revenues are recognised in the territory where the contracting party is located which is typically where the service is delivered: and Advertising and sponsorship revenues are recognised in the territory where the advertisements are delivered.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 105 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Segment information continued Geographical revenue information for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012 is presented below.
Revenues of 30,769,278 were derived from one external customer in 2013.
In 2012 revenues of 24,244,000 were derived from one external customer.
These revenues are attributable to the Content Distribution and Advertising and sponsorship segments and are from the only customer which individually represented over 5% of the Groups revenues.
Operating profit and Adjusted EBITDA 2013 2012 Notes 000 000 Adjusted EBITDA 36,402 37,502 Exceptional items 3, 6 9,788 5,348 Exceptional share-based payments GSOP 26 1,228 Other share-based payments 26 712 2,018 EBITDA 25,902 28,908 Amortisation and depreciation 14, 15 8,317 6,486 Acquisition-related amortisation 13 6,034 2,908 Group operating profit 11,551 19,514 Adjusted EBITDA is Group Operating Profit excluding amortisation including acquisition intangibles, depreciation, exceptional items and share-based payments.
EBITDA is Group Operating Profit excluding depreciation and amortisation including acquisition-related amortisation.
EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are considered by the Directors to be key measures of financial performance.
106 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : 2013 2012 000 000 Rentals payable under operating leases 2,342 1,475 Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables 730 429 Net foreign exchange gains 27 775 Research and development costs 3,204 2,550 Exceptional share-based payments GSOP 1,228 Share-based payments 712 2,018 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 4,535 3,952 Amortisation of intangible assets 3,782 2,534 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 6,034 2,886 Acquisition-related service charge 44 22 The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: 2013 2012 Grant Grant Deloitte Thornton Thornton 000 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 200 54 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 119 113 Total audit fees 319 167 Fees payable to the Groups auditors for other services: Interim review 30 29 Tax compliance services 152 96 218 Tax advisory services 155 130 45 Other advisory services 116 44 69 Total fees payable to the Groups auditor 772 270 528 Deloitte LLP succeeded Grant Thornton UK LLP to become the Groups auditor in June 2013.
The auditors remuneration given above relates to those fees earned throughout 2013 and is not limited to the period that each firm acted as auditor of the Group.
Staff costs The average monthly number of employees including Executive Directors was: 2013 2012 Nos.
Business development and sales 158 80 Account management and marketing 95 65 Production 637 467 Technology 285 183 Administration and management 170 111 Total 1,345 906 Overall staff have increased due to the inclusion of Opta, Voetbalzone and Perform Sporting News and the full year impact of RunningBall and Mackolik employees.
Employee costs including Executive Directors were: 2013 2012 000 000 Wages and salaries 47,337 31,680 Social security costs 6,109 3,731 Pension costs 1,186 1,190 Total 54,632 36,601 In addition, the total exceptional share-based payment GSOP charge was nil 2012: 1,228,000 and other share-based payment charges were 712,000 2012: 2,018,000.
See note 26 for further details of the Groups share-based payment schemes.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 5.
Staff costs continued Key management costs including Executive and Non-Executive Directors were: 2013 2012 000 000 Wages and salaries 5,834 4,855 Social security costs 783 645 Pension costs 413 321 Total 7,030 5,821 During 2013 the Directors considered 49 individuals to be key 2012: 42 including Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
In addition to the above, the total share-based payment charge relating to key employees was 712,000 2012: 2,018,000.
This excludes the exceptional share-based payment charge which was also primarily paid to individuals classified as key management in 2012 refer to note 26.
Directors remuneration is set out on page 75 within the Remuneration Committee Report.
Exceptional items 2013 2012 000 000 Costs in relation to the Groups class 1 transaction acquisition, new debt facilities and equity raising 594 2,042 Costs in relation to the Groups acquisition and integration of other subsidiaries 6,541 3,306 Costs in relation to management incentive on acquisition 3,500 Revaluation of acquisition-related financial liability 2,442 Costs in relation to restructuring activities 1,195 Other 400 9,788 5,348 During the year the Group acquired Perform Sporting News, Opta and Voetbalzone.
The related costs given their size and nature have been classified as exceptional by the Directors.
In addition, certain costs were incurred in relation to the issue of new equity related to the acquisition of Opta refer to notes 24 and 28.
The management incentive on acquisition relates to six months charge in respect of Opta 3.5 million.
A credit was recognised with regards to the downward revaluation of the acquisition-related financial liability due on Spox MSD 2.4 million.
Finally, certain costs in relation to restructuring costs have been classified as exceptional.
During 2012 the Group acquired RunningBall Holding AG a class 1 transaction, Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. and Sportal GmbH.
In addition, certain costs were incurred in relation to the issue of new equity directly linked to the acquisition of RunningBall refer to notes 24 and the arrangement of the Groups new debt facilities directly linked to the acquisition of RunningBall refer to note 21 : these have also been categorised as exceptional.
Of the 9.8 million exceptional items, 0.3 million, which is net of the Spox MSD contingent consideration revaluation of 2.4 million 2.7million gross, is disallowable.
No tax charge has been recognised in respect of the revaluation of contingent consideration nor has any tax benefit been taken on the 2.7 million non-deductible items.
A tax credit of 23% has been recognised in respect of the allowable exceptional items in the Groups tax credit for the year.
Investment income 2013 2012 000 000 Interest receivable 434 533 Investment income primarily relates to bank interest receivable on funds raised during the equity issue.
108 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements 8.
Finance costs 2013 2012 000 000 Interest on bank overdrafts and loans 1,798 558 Interest on obligations under finance leases 24 48 Other bank charges and finance costs 667 659 Total underlying interest and related costs 2,489 1,265 Accretion of deferred consideration 4,009 1,862 Exceptional finance costs 1,429 Total finance costs 7,927 3,127 Interest payable in both years primarily relates to bank interest on the Groups borrowings.
Other bank charges and finance costs relate to the amortisation of the arrangement fee paid on the Groups current term loan and the cost of the related fixed rate hedge 132,000 2012: 132,000 and 75,000 2012: 55,000 respectively, non-utilisation fees paid under the Groups new debt facilities refer to note 21 159,000 2012: 296,000, a foreign currency hedge premium 177,000 2012: nil and other bank charges 124,000 2012: 176,000.
Other bank fees in 2012 primarily related to the amortisation of the term loan, a non-utilisation fee under the Groups debt facility, the related interest rate swap cost and other bankcharges.
Accretion of deferred consideration relates to the unwind of the discount applied to the valuation of the liabilities for contingent payments due in respect of the acquisitions of Mackolik 2,516,000: 2012: 1,182,000, Voetbalzone 640,000: 2012: nil, Spox 434,000: 2012:293,000 and WatchandTrade 419,000: 2012: 387,000.
Refer to notes 1 and 28 for a further explanation.
The exceptional 1.4 million foreign exchange charge is due to the difference between the liability recognised at 31 December 2012 in relation to the 50 million RunningBall deferred consideration and the amount actually paid in March 2013.
This charge was also impacted by a foreign exchange movement on the 50 million bank debt between March 2013 when it was drawn down and the period end.
Taxation 2013 2012 000 000 Current tax: UK current tax at 23.25% 2012: 24.5% 109 Foreign tax: Overseas current tax 3,903 2,281 Deferred tax: Origination or reversal of temporary differences 5,660 955 Impact of changes in tax rates 878 Adjustment in respect of prior years 278 187 Tax credit charge for the year 492 3,423 UK corporation tax is calculated at 23.25% 2012: 24.5% of the estimated assessable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in those jurisdictions.
The credit charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the Income Statement as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Profit before tax 4,058 16,920 Tax at weighted average UK corporation tax rate of 23.25% 2012: 24.5% 943 4,145 Effects of: Tax effect of expenses not deductible in determining taxable profit 1,166 848 Tax effect of service credits not taxable in determining taxable profit 172 Prior year adjustments 281 187 Change in UK tax rate on deferred tax balances 878 284 Change to tax rates in relation to deferred tax on intangible assets 1,987 Effects of different tax rates of subsidiaries operating in other jurisdictions 3,174 2,382 Non-recognition of losses 1,575 Other differences 174 513 Tax credit charge 492 3,423 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 109 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 10.
Adjusted profit before tax 2013 2012 Notes 000 000 Statutory profit before tax 4,058 16,920 Exceptional items 3, 6 9,788 5,348 Exceptional finance costs 8 1,429 Exceptional share-based payments GSOP 26 1,228 Other share-based payments 26 712 2,018 Acquisition-related amortisation 13 6,034 2,908 Accretion of acquisition-related payments 20 4,009 1,862 Adjusted profit before tax 26,030 30,284 11.
Earnings per share 2013 2012 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Parent 000 4,035 12,840 Exceptional items 000 9,788 5,348 Exceptional finance costs 000 1,429 Share-based payments 000 712 3,246 Acquisition-related amortisation 000 6,034 2,908 Accretion of acquisition-related payments 000 4,009 1,862 Adjusted earnings 000 26,007 26,204 Weighted average number of shares in issue 000s basic and diluted 250,728 233,255 Basic and diluted earnings per share Statutory pence 1.6 5.5 Adjusted pence 10.4 11.2 Adjusted basic earnings per share is based on profit attributable to owners of the Parent plus non-tax adjusted exceptional items, sharebased payments, acquisition-related amortisation and accretion of acquisition-related deferred consideration divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding in the year.
On 3 July 2013, 23,888,211 new ordinary 2 and 7 9ths pence shares were placed at a price of 480 pence per Placing Share, raising total gross proceeds of approximately 115 million for the Company.
In May 2012, 13,506,000 new ordinary 2 and 7 9ths pence shares were issued as part consideration for RunningBall.
110 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements 12.
Goodwill 000 Cost and Net Book Value At 1 January 2012 57,192 Additions: RunningBall Holding AG 82,286 Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. 13,578 Sportal GmbH 1,110 Arising from finalisation of acquisition accounting of Goal.
com Holdco S. A. and Spox Media Gmbh mediasports Digital GmbH 591 Retranslation of goodwill of foreign operations at closing rate 849 At 31 December 2012 and 1 January 2013 153,908 Additions: Opta Sports Data Ltd 26,905 Perform Sporting News Ltd 4,607 Voetbalzone B. V 4,933 Perform Media Sales Japan 946 Arising from finalisation of acquisition accounting of RunningBall Holding AG and Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. 302 Retranslation of goodwill of foreign operations at closing rate 533 At 31 December 2013 192,134 As set out in the accounting policies critical judgements section the Group has only one operating segment.
The lowest level that goodwill is internally monitored for impairment purposes is at the level of the Groups single operating segment accordingly the Group only has one cash-generating unit CGU for impairment testing purposes.
The Group compares the carrying amount of the unit including goodwill to the recoverable amount of the unit.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period.
These assumptions have been revised in the year in light of the current economic environment which has resulted in more conservative estimates about the future.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGU.
Changes in selling prices, volumes and direct costs are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
Recoverable amounts for the cash-generating unit were calculated using cash flows calculated for one year as forecast by Management and approved by the Board of Directors.
A long-term growth rate of 2.5% was applied in order to extrapolate cash flow projections beyond this period.
The cashflows were discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 12% 2012: 10%.
In determining the discount rate, Management applied judgement in respect of several factors which included assessing the risk attached to the future cashflows and making reference to the capital asset pricing model the CAPM as advertised to determine the pre-tax discount rate.
Management gave consideration to the selection of appropriate inputs to the CAPM, which included the risk free rate, the equity risk premium and a measure of systematic risk.
The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis taking into consideration the impact on key impairment test assumptions arising from a range of possible trading and economic scenarios.
The scenarios have been performed separately for each CGU with the sensitivities summarised as follows: An increase in the discount rate by 1%: A decrease of 5% on forecast EBITDA over the term.
The sensitivity analysis shows that no impairment would result from either an increase in the discount rate or a decrease in forecastcashflows.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 111 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 13.
com 7.5 million, Opta 4.8 million, Sporting News 3.9 million, Spox.
com together 1.5 million, Voetbalzone 1.0million and Sportal.
After consideration by the Directors in light of the size of the acquisitions, the nature of the assets acquired, competitive benchmarking and external valuation advice received, the Directors have concluded that it was appropriate for the trademarks and domain names to be written off over 20 years.
Individually significant acquisition-related intangibles include: RunningBall software intangibles that had a carrying value of 14.7 million at 31 December 2013 and a remaining useful life of 9 years.
RunningBall customer relationship intangibles that had a carrying value of 9 million at 31 December and a remaining useful life of 11 years.
Opta customer relationship intangibles that had a carrying value of 9.9 million at 31 December 2013 and a remaining useful life of 11 years.
Other intangible assets Computer software development 000 Cost At 1 January 2012 7,224 Additions 5,525 At 31 December 2012 and 1 January 2013 12,749 Additions 10,998 At 31 December 2013 23,747 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2012 1,771 Charge for the year 2,534 At 31 December 2012 and 1 January 2013 4,305 Charge for the year 3,782 At 31 December 2013 8,087 Net book value At 31 December 2012 8,444 At 31 December 2013 15,660 Included within additions to computer software development in 2013 is 7,027,000 2012: 2,624,000 of internally capitalised staff costs.
112 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements 15.
Group investments Investments of the Company which principally affect the consolidated results and total assets of the Group, their country of incorporation, ownership of their issued ordinary share capital and the nature of their trade are listed below: Proportion of all classes Country of of issued share capital incorporation owned by the Company Principal activity Subsidiaries: Direct holdings of the Company Perform Media Services Ltd Great Britain 100% Digital sports media Subsidiaries: Indirect holdings of the Company Online advertising and Perform Media Sales Ltd Great Britain 100% sponsorship sales Perform Media Channels Ltd Great Britain 100% Digital sports media Watchandtrade Ltd Northern Ireland 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Inc United States 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Australia Pty Ltd Australia 100% Digital sports media Pangorights Ltd Great Britain 100% Digital sports media Sportal New Zealand Pty Ltd New Zealand 100% Digital sports media Sportal India Private Ltd India 100% Digital sports media Global Sports Media BV Netherlands 100% Digital sports media Mangalore Sports Data India Private Limited India 100% Digital sports media Classic Sport Ltd Great Britain 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Services SRL Italy 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Services Germany GmbH Germany 100% Digital sports media Perform Media France SARL France 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Poland SP.
z. oo Poland 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Japan KK Japan 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Sales Japan KK Japan 70% Digital sports media Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 113 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 16.
Group investments continued Proportion of all classes Country of of issued share capital incorporation owned by the Company Principal activity Perform Media Norway AS Norway 100% Digital sports media Goal.
com HoldCo SA Luxembourg 100% Holding company Goal.
com North America Inc United States 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% Digital sports media Online advertising and mediasports Digital GmbH Germany 100% sponsorship sales Kontertaktik GmbH Germany 100% Digital sports media Sportal GmbH Germany 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Spain SL Spain 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Sweden AB Sweden 100% Digital sports media RunningBall Group Holdings AG Switzerland 100% Holding company RunningBall Invest AG Switzerland 100% Holding company RunningBall Holding AG Switzerland 100% Holding company RunningBall AG Switzerland 100% Sports data provider RunningBall Sports Information GmbH Austria 100% Sports data provider RunningBall SDN BHD Malaysia 100% Sports data provider RunningBall Services & Consulting Ltd Cyprus 100% Sports data provider RunningBall Informacao Desportiva Portugal 100% Sports data provider Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. Turkey 51% Digital sports media Voetbalzone B. V Netherlands 100% Digital sports media Perform Group South Africa Proprietary Ltd South Africa 100% Digital sports media Perform Media Services Nigeria Ltd Nigeria 100% Digital sports media Perform South America Ltd Great Britain 50% Holding company PFPSA B. V. Netherlands 50% Holding company Opta Sports Data Ltd Great Britain 100% Sports data provider Opta Sports SA Spain 100% Sports data provider Opta Sports Daten AG Germany 100% Sports data provider Opta Sports Data Srl Italy 100% Sports data provider Opta Sports Data Inc United States 100% Sports data provider Valles Profundos SA Uruguay 100% Sports data provider Perform Sporting News Limited Great Britain 65% Digital sports media Perform Digital Media Canada Inc. Canada 65% Digital sports media Perform Sporting News 1 LLC United States 65% Digital sports media Perform Sporting News 2 LLC United States 65% Digital sports media Investments: Xeatre Ltd Great Britain 15% Sports data provider Open Source Factory GmbH Germany 15% Sports data provider The proportion of voting rights held is the same as the proportion of shares held.
114 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements 17.
Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 000 000 Gross trade receivables 32,533 24,818 Provision for impairment of trade receivables 2,545 1,815 Net trade receivables 29,988 23,003 Prepayments and accrued income 34,860 27,337 64,848 50,340 Trade receivables are stated at amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
The due date for trade receivables will vary depending on the jurisdiction and product but is typically between 30 and 90 days.
Trade receivables do not bear any effective interest rate.
All trade receivables are subject to credit risk exposure, however, the Group does not identify specific concentration of credit risk with regards to trade receivables, as the amount recognised consists of a large number of receivables from various customers.
Movements on the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables are set out in the table below: 2013 2012 000 000 At 1 January 1,815 693 Provision for receivables impairment 730 429 Provision for bad debts acquired with subsidiaries 693 2,545 1,815 The creation and release of provisions for impaired receivables has been included in the Income Statement.
Amounts charged to the provision account are generally written off, when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
Some of the unimpaired trade receivables are past due as at the reporting date.
Financial assets past due but not impaired are shown below: 2013 2012 000 000 Not more than three months 5,640 8,528 More than three months but not more than six months 2,871 3,363 More than six months but not more than a year 1,133 1,052 More than one year 1,065 716 Total 10,709 13,659 Of the 1,065,000 which is more than one year old, 290,000 relates to items which can be offset against corresponding items on the Groups purchase ledger 2012: 288,000.
The average credit period taken is 52 days 2012: 50 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Prepayments and accrued income balances are set out below: 2013 2012 000 000 Prepayments for acquiring WTA rights 2013-2016 in advance of those tournaments 13,630 13,402 Prepayments for acquiring rights to future content in advance of other future sporting events 9,986 4,559 Unbilled advertising, distribution and technology related revenues 8,548 6,206 Prepaid finance costs 61 449 Other prepaid office costs 2,635 2,721 34,860 27,337 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 115 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 18.
Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 000 000 Cash 100,947 33,605 Restricted cash 46 100,993 33,605 The restricted cash relates to a term deposit as security for overseas offices.
Cash was held in a variety of interest bearing accounts.
Net funds 2013 2012 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 100,993 33,605 Borrowings 48,260 6,925 Finance leases 181 Net funds 52,733 26,499 Due to a technical breach, which management were aware of at the balance sheet date, IAS 1:69 requires that the loan is classified as a current liability.
The technical breach was remedied without penalty after the balance sheet date.
The loan will be classified as a long-term liability in the Interim financial statements for the six months ending 30 June 2014.
Trade and other payables 2013 2012 000 000 Trade payables 17,954 18,076 Accruals 23,507 17,473 Deferred income 12,523 6,929 Other creditors 4,366 1,320 Finance lease obligations 181 58,350 43,979 The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 52 days 2012: 52 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value.
Acquisition-related financial liabilities The following table summarises and reconciles acquisition-related deferred consideration recorded in the financial statements and includes the Groups estimated future dividend payments to the owners of the non-controlling interest in Mackolik : Recognised Unwind of on discount At acquisition applied to Service At 31 1 January or reFV initial related December Due in Due in 2013 measured liability charge Payment FX 2013 1 year 1 year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 RunningBall 40,225 42,670 2,445 Mackolik 22,054 4,619 2,516 44 2,177 4,656 22,400 1,315 21,085 WatchandTrade 5,136 419 2,341 3,214 3,214 Spox 4,014 2,442 434 885 1,121 1,121 Opta 3,500 3,500 3,500 Voetbalzone 4,591 640 5,231 562 4,669 71,429 6,768 4,009 3,544 48,073 2,211 35,446 8,591 26,875 116 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements 2012 comparative information: Recognised Unwind of on discount At acquisition applied to Service At 31 1 January or reFV initial related December Due in Due in 2012 measured liability charge Payment FX 2012 1 year 1 year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 RunningBall 40,552 327 40,225 40,225 Mackolik 20,852 1,178 24 22,054 2,097 19,957 WatchandTrade 4,892 387 143 5,136 2,189 2,947 Spox 3,547 300 293 126 4,014 1,478 2,536 8,439 61,704 1,858 24 143 453 71,429 45,989 25,440 Refer to note 28 for further information on the above acquisitions.
The table below sets out the Directors best estimates of the undiscounted payments the Group anticipates paying and the years the payments for deferred consideration are expected to be made: Total expected Total acquisitionAmounts expected related paid up to future payments 31 December payments including Total deal 2013 2014 2015 2016 201416 to date cap 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Mackolik 16,653 23,100 23,100 39,753 75,000 WatchandTrade 3,216 3,184 3,184 6,400 6,400 Spox 3,961 1,233 1,233 5,194 13,333 Opta 39,500 7,500 7,500 47,000 47,000 Voetbalzone 1,676 650 2,695 3,123 6,468 8,144 8,750 65,006 11,334 3,928 26,223 41,485 106,491 150,483 Excludes dividend payments to shareholders of non-controlling interests in Mackolik in 2014-2016.
The table also excludes the options to acquire the remaining 35% of Perform Sporting News Limited up to a maximum of $85 million and the remaining 35% of Perform Media Sales Japan KK up to a maximum of 12 million in 2017.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 117 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 21.
Borrowings 2013 2012 000 000 Current borrowings 48,260 5,533 Non-current borrowings 1,392 48,260 6,925 In May 2012 the 11.3 million balance of the Groups term loan facility Old Facility A was converted into a new term loan facility of 11.3million Facility A which was provided to Perform Media Services Ltd.
This new facility was provided by Bank of Ireland plc and Royal Bank of Scotland plc who also provided Perform Group plc and Perform Media Services Ltd a 30 million term loan facility Facility B and a 20million multi-currency revolving credit facility Facility C. The agreement also allowed an additional multi-currency term facility of 20million Facility D together the New Facilities.
Facility B and Facility C were fully drawn down in March 2013 to finance the payment of deferred consideration for RunningBall and 10million of Facility D was drawn down in June 2013.
Together Facilities A, B, C and D form the Facilities Agreement.
Facility A bears interest at a rate equal to the aggregate of LIBOR plus a margin of 3.5%.
Facilities B, C and D bear interest at a rate equal to the aggregate of EURIBOR plus a margin of up to 2.5%.
Two-thirds of the interest rate of Facilities A, B and D is required to be hedged.
Two-thirds of Facility A has been hedged.
All of Facilities B and D have been hedged.
Interest is charged and payable quarterly.
The Facilities Agreement requires the Borrower to comply with certain financial covenants.
Facility A is being repaid in equal instalments of 1,416,667 the first instalment was in June 2012 and on each subsequent quarter date.
Facility A must be repaid by no later than 31 March 2014.
Facility B is being repaid in equal quarterly instalments of 2,272,500 the first instalment was in September 2013.
Facility D is due to be repaid in one instalment in March 2016.
Facility C may be repaid and redrawn quarterly and will need to be repaid in full in March 2016.
The amounts provided above are net of fees paid to the banks.
Of these fees, 410,000 were offset against the loan on inception of Old Facility A and these are being amortised to the Income Statement over the length of the loan.
The carrying value of the fees at 31 December 2013 is 26,000.
The arrangement fee for Facilities B and C was 544,000, with 272,000 paid on arrangement and 272,000 paid in March 2013 on utilisation of the Facilities.
These are being amortised to the Income Statement over the length of the loans..
The carrying value of these fees as at 31 December 2013 is 410,000.
A bank fee of 86,000 was incurred when Facility D was drawn down.
These fees are being amortised to the Income Statement over the term of the loan.
The carrying value of these fees as at 31 December 2013 is 68,000.
Due to a technical breach, which Management were aware of at the balance sheet date, IAS 1:69 requires that the loan is classified as a current liability.
The loan will be classified as a long-term liability in the Interim financial statements for the six months to 30 June 2014.
Financial risk management The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks.
The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to capital risk, foreign exchange rates, interest rate risks, the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions and the availability of funds to meet business needs.
These risks are managed as described below.
The Groups risk management is co-ordinated at its headquarters, in close co-operation with the board of Directors, and focusses on actively securing the Groups short to medium-term cash flows by minimising the exposure to financial markets.
The Group does not actively engage in the trading of financial assets for speculative purposes.
The most significant financial risks to which the Group is exposed are described below.
118 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Capital risk The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern whilst having enough capital to continue its acquisition strategy and sustain future product development.
The Group will continue to seek to maximise the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance although this is a longer-term aspiration.
The Groups overall strategy has not changed in the last year.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net funds, which includes cash and cash equivalents after deducting the borrowings disclosed in note 21, and equity of the Group, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings.
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The primary reason for the Group to raise debt or equity is to finance its acquisitions.
The Groups Directors review the capital structure on an ad-hoc basis and do consider the impact any acquisitions and how they are financed have on the Groups capital structure before completing any acquisition or financing.
As part of this review the Board considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
The Group had a gearing ratio of 16% at 31 December 2013 2012: 4%.
The ratio has increased in the year due to the Group drawing down on its bank facilities to satisfy the contingent consideration in respect of the RunningBall acquisition, offset partly by equity issued during the year to part-fund the acquisition of Opta.
The gearing ratio at the year end is as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Debt 48,260 6,925 Equity 295,578 170,507 Debt to equity ratio 16% 4% Debt is defined as all borrowings and equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group that are managed as capital see note 21 for further details on debt.
Due to the current fast growth and acquisitive nature of the Group, the Group does not currently have a long-term target gearing ratio although the Groups preference is for future significant acquisitions to be financed by equity rather than debt.
The Group also has no current policy as to the level of equity capital and other reserves other than to address statutory requirements.
The Group currently does not envisage paying a dividend in the short-term, consistent with its intentions as set out when the Group listed.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities is as follows: Categories of financial instruments 2013 2012 000 000 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 100,993 33,605 Trade and other receivables 64,848 50,340 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 58,350 43,979 Acquisition-related financial liabilities 35,446 71,429 Current borrowings 48,260 5,533 The carrying amount reflected above represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk for such loans designated as FVTPL.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 119 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 22.
Financial risk management continued Currency risk The table below shows the carrying amount of the Groups foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities at the reporting date: Other Euro US Dollar currencies Total 000 000 000 000 2013 Financial assets 18,087 16,557 7,592 42,236 Financial liabilities 10,707 8,681 2,273 21,661 Total exposure 7,380 7,876 5,319 20,575 2012 Financial assets 22,714 9,209 2,252 34,175 Financial liabilities 8,394 5,462 2,084 15,940 Total exposure 14,320 3,747 168 18,235 Exposures to currency exchange rates arise from the Groups retranslation of its foreign subsidiaries as well as the Groups overseas sales and purchases, which are primarily denominated in euros and US dollars.
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of the net result for the year and equity with regard to the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities and the euro sterling exchange rate and the US dollar sterling rate.
It assumes a - 10% movement in each exchange rate on bothyears.
These percentages have been determined based on the average market volatility in exchange rates in the previous 12 months.
If sterling had weakened by 10% then this would have had the following impact: 2013 2012 Euro US Dollar Euro US Dollar 000 000 000 000 Net profit 1,366 599 1,297 340 Equity 2,186 1,474 2,888 756 If sterling had strengthened by 10% then this would have had the following impact: 2013 2012 Euro US Dollar Euro US Dollar 000 000 000 000 Net profit 1,118 490 1,061 278 Equity 1,789 1,206 2,363 619 The Groups objective when managing currency risk is to ensure that changes in exchange rates would not have a material impact on the Group.
The Groups policy is to review the level of revenues and costs denominated in various key currencies and to naturally hedge wherever possible.
Where this is not possible and a currency risk is forecast the Directors strategy is to acquire forward options to mitigate the level of risk.
In addition to the monetary assets and liabilities set out above the Group has acquisition-related liabilities which will be settled in foreign currencies.
The contingent consideration for Mackolik 22.4 million is 79.7 million Turkish Lira, the contingent consideration for Spox 1.1million is 1.3 million and the contingent consideration for Voetbalzone 5.2 million is 6.3 million.
If at the year end sterling was 10% stronger, profit and equity would increase by 2.6 million.
If at the year end sterling was 10% weaker, profit and equity would decrease by 3.2million.
120 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as it borrows funds at floating rate interest rates.
The Group is required to hedge Facilities A, B and D as per the facilities agreements, at least two-thirds of the loans via interest rate swaps, hedging floating rate interest for fixed rate interest.
The interest rate swaps settle on a quarterly basis.
For Facility A, a floating rate of LIBOR plus 3.5% premium is swapped to a fixed rate of 1.94% plus 3.5% margin : for Facility B, a floating rate of EURIBOR plus 2.5% premium is swapped to a fixed rate of 0.5175% plus 2.5% margin : for Facility D, a floating rate of EURIBOR plus 2.5% premium is swapped to a fixed rate of 0.545% plus 2.5% margin.
The Directors do not consider that this derivative had a material value at either 31 December 2012 or 2013.
The Groups hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align them with interest rate views and defined risk appetite, ensuring the most appropriate hedging strategies are applied.
Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral where appropriate as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults.
The Group uses publicly available financial information and its own trading records to assess the creditworthiness of counterparties.
The Group continually monitors its exposure to counterparties and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
Cash held by counterparty is presented to the Board on a monthly basis.
The credit risk on these funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas.
Cash balances are held across a number of banks, the Group does not have any significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of counterparties having similar characteristics.
The Group defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if they are related entities.
Concentration of credit risk to any counterparty did not exceed 3% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is managed by short and long-term cash flow forecasts.
Sufficient cash reserves are held to meet short-term working capital requirements.
As at 31 December 2013 and 2012, the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities have contractual maturities including interest payments where applicable as summarised below: Current within Current 6 to Non-current Non-current later 6 months 12 months 1 to 5 years than 5years 31 December 2013 000 000 000 000 Trade payables 17,954 Borrowings 48,260 66,214 Deferred consideration 5,091 3,500 26,875 71,305 3,500 26,875 Due to a technical breach, which Management were aware of, IAS 1:69 requires that the loan is classified as a current liability.
The loan is expected to be classified as a long-term liability in the Interim financial statements for the six months to 30 June 2014.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 121 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 22.
Financial risk management continued Current within Current 6 to Non-current Non-current later 6 months 12 months 1 to 5 years than 5years 31 December 2012 000 000 000 000 Trade payables 18,076 Borrowings 2,978 2,913 1,431 Amounts owed under finance leases 97 84 21,151 2,997 1,431 Deferred consideration 45,989 25,440 67,140 2,997 26,871 Weighted average effective Less than 1 to 3 3 months 1 to 5 5 interest rate 1 month months to 1 year years years Total % 000 000 000 000 000 000 2013 Variable interest rate instruments Facility A 4.0175% 1,417 1,417 Facility B & C 2.721% 2,269 6,807 30,016 39,092 Facility D 2.721% 8,559 8,559 Fixed interest rate instruments ACBJ 3% 1,685 1,685 2012 Variable interest rate instruments Facility A 4.015% 1,416 4,250 1,417 7,083 The amounts included above for variable interest rate instruments for both non-derivative financial assets and liabilities is subject to change if changes in variable interest rates differ to those estimates of interest rates determined at the reporting date.
Financial instruments fair value disclosure Financial instruments that are measured at fair value in the consolidated financial statements require disclosure of fair value measurements by level based on the following fair value measurement hierarchy: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices : and Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market date that is, unobservable inputs.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are based on quoted market prices where available.
Where the market value is not available, the Group has estimated relevant fair values on the basis of publicly available information from outside sources or on the basis of discounted cash flow models where appropriate.
The Group only holds financial instruments categorised as Level 2 or Level 3 financial instruments.
There have been no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy during the year.
The Level 2 financial instruments held relate to cash and cash equivalents, current borrowings, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
122 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements The only Level 3 financial instruments held by the Group during the year are for acquisition-related financial liabilities.
Fair values have been derived by discounting estimated future cash flows.
The table below is a reconciliation of the Level 3 fair value measurements for the year ended 31 December 2013: Acquisition-related financial liabilities 000 1 January 2013 71,429 Recognised on acquisition 4,591 Re-measured 2,177 Unwind of discount 4,009 Service related charge 3,544 Payment 48,073 Foreign exchange 2,211 31 December 2013 35,466 23.
Deferred tax The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes: 2013 2012 000 000 Deferred tax assets 9,284 Deferred tax liabilities 15,859 4,367 6,575 4,367 2013 2012 000 000 Deferred tax movement At 1 January 4,367 5,515 Acquisition of subsidiaries 6,640 8,952 Credit charge to income statement 4,500 1,142 Other 68 212 At 31 December 6,575 4,367 At 31 At 31 December December 2013 2012 Analysis of deferred tax 000 000 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 1,201 1,759 Share-based payments 413 695 Losses 7,778 4,105 Acquisition intangibles 14,394 10,926 Other 1,573 Total 6,575 4,367 In addition to the amounts set out above the Group has an unrecognised deferred tax asset at 31 December 2013 of 3 million 2012:1.3million relating to losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised as it is not considered probable that there will be future taxable profits available to offset such losses.
No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 0.7 million 2012: 0.4 million relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the forseeable future.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 123 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 24.
Share capital 2013 2012 000 000 Issued Ordinary shares of 2 and 7 9ths pence each 7,299 6,635 7,299 6,635 2013 2012 000 000 Issued Ordinary shares of 2 and 7 9ths pence each 262,771 238,882 262,771 238,882 On 3 July 2013, 23,888,211 new ordinary 2 and 7 9ths pence shares were placed at a price of 480 pence per Placing Share, raising total gross proceeds of 115 million for the Company.
Directly attributable transaction costs of 2.1 million were capitalised in relation to this placing.
Other reserves 2013 2012 000 000 1 January 24,697 4,892 Debit to reserve in respect of Sporting News acquisition 7,222 Debit to reserve in respect of Mackolik 49% acquisition 19,805 Share capital issued 65,592 31 December 48,117 24,697 26.
Share-based payments A total charge of 712,000 2012: 3,246,000 relating to the Groups share-based payment schemes has been included in the Income Statement.
The current year charge relates to the PSP and SAYE.
Growth Securities Ownership Plan GSOP In March 2010, the Board put in place a Growth Securities Ownership Plan the GSOP.
Under the GSOP, certain key non-shareholding employees were given the opportunity to purchase a financial instrument which tracked the Groups enterprise value, defined as market capitalisation for these purposes, over a set period, being the period ending 12 months after the occurrence of an exit event.
21 senior employees none of whom is a Director held a total of 35 units under the plan.
The terms of the GSOP provided for cash payments, on a pro-rata basis, by the Company to participants, subject to such participants continued employment at the Group at the date payable, if the Companys enterprise value at the end of the relevant period exceeded a floor amount.
The amount payable to participants increased up to a maximum aggregate amount of 6 million which was payable if the Companys enterprise value at such time is not less than 450million.
The Admission to the London Stock Exchange Admission constituted an exit event under the scheme.
The Group paid the maximum amount of 6 million to the participants in May 2012.
The fair values of the financial instruments entered into under this scheme were calculated and were purchased by the participants at this price.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group recognised a charge of 1,228,000 in 2012 and 4,770,000 in 2011 in respect of this cash settled scheme.
No further charges or payments will be made under the plan.
Performance Share Plan PSP The Group has put in place a Performance Share Plan PSP to provide long-term incentives to Executive Directors and Senior Management of the Group.
Share awards made under the PSP are based on a percentage of salary and the share price the date before the date of grant and are subject to a matrix of non-market based performance targets including annual compound growth of the Groups revenues and adjusted earnings per share over a three-year performance period.
There is no exercise price on these shares.
124 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Award 24 June 2011 An award made in June 2011 is measured over a performance period to 31 December 2013 with awards vesting in June 2014 subject to continued employment.
In the event that all the performance criteria are met, a maximum number of 1,400,000 shares will vest.
The fair value of each award is 2.19 calculated by reference to the closing market price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
At the previous year end Management expected that 100% of the awards made in June 2011 would vest.
However during the year 2% of the awards lapsed and Management expects a further 3% of the awards will lapse in the remaining vesting period.
As such, Management expect a further 5% of participants will leave before the awards vest and have revised their performance valuation to 50%.
As such, and in accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a credit including true-up of 235,000 2012: charge of 1,242,000 in respect of this equity settled scheme.
Award March 2012 An award made in March 2012 is measured over a performance period to 31 December 2014 with awards vesting in March 2015 subject to continued employment.
In the event that all the performance criteria are met, a maximum number of 1,500,000 shares will vest.
The fair value of each award is 3.03 calculated by reference to the closing market price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
At the previous year end Management expected that 65% of the awards made in March 2012 would vest.
None of the awards lapsed during the year.
Based on the Groups three-year forecasts, Management expect that 20% of the shares will vest and 10% of participants will leave before the awards vest.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a credit of 187,000 2012: charge of 747,000 in respect of this equity settledscheme.
Award September 2012 An award made in September 2012 is measured over a performance period to 31 December 2014 with awards vesting in September 2015 subject to continued employment.
In the event that all the performance criteria are met, a maximum number of 100,000 shares will vest.
The fair value of each award is 3.74 calculated by reference to the closing market price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
At the previous year end Management expected that 65% of the awards made in September 2012 would vest.
Based on the Groups three-year forecasts, Management expect that 20% of the shares will vest and 0% of participants will leave before the awards vest.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a charge of 3,000 2012: 28,000 in respect of this equity settled scheme.
Award March 2013 An award made in March 2013 is measured over a performance period to 31 December 2015 with awards vesting in March 2016 subject to continued employment.
The fair value of each award is 4.70 calculated by reference to the closing market price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
Based on the Groups three-year forecasts, Management expects that 50% of the shares will vest and 10% of participants will leave before the awards vest.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a charge of 923,000 2012: nil in respect of this equity settled scheme.
Award September 2013 An award made in September 2013 is measured over a performance period to 31 December 2015 with awards vesting in September 2016 subject to continued employment.
In the event that all the performance criteria are met, a maximum number of 110,000 shares will vest.
The fair value of each award is 5.40 calculated by reference to the closing market price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised a charge of 21,000 2012: nil in respect of this equity settled scheme.
Save As You Earn scheme SAYE The Group has a share save scheme which uses shares to provide long-term incentives to employees of the Group.
Employees were invited to join in November 2012 and the plan started in January 2013 and matures in January 2016.
The charge for the year was 190,000 2012:nil.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 125 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 27.
Non-controlling interests 2013 2012 000 000 Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. 2,739 1,487 Perform Sporting News Limited 694 Other 64 1 3,497 1,488 28.
Acquisitions Acquisitions have been accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting.
The goodwill arising on these acquisitions will be subject to an annual impairment review.
Opta Sports Data Limited Opta On 9 July 2013 the Group acquired Opta Sports Data Limited Opta for 40 million consideration and a management incentive up to 7million.
The management incentive is conditional upon meeting certain financial and non-financial targets including continued employment through to 30 June 2014.
The management incentive is therefore not part of the overall consideration but instead is being accrued based onManagements assessment of whether the conditional performance criteria will be met.
The following table sets out identifiable assets and liabilities acquired at the acquisition date.
Fair values are provisional as at 31 December 2013 and are based on the information held to date: Fair value 000 Non-current assets Intangible assets 20,322 Current assets Trade and other receivables 2,666 Cash and cash equivalents 2,184 Total assets 25,172 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 6,790 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liability 5,287 Total liabilities 12,077 Net assets acquired 13,095 Goodwill arising 26,905 Fair value of total consideration 40,000 The fair value of consideration is comprised of: 000 Initial cash consideration 39,500 Retention amount 500 Fair value of total consideration 40,000 126 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements Acquired intangible assets comprise: Recognition of an intangible asset for customer relationships, trademarks, software and the database.
American Appraisal, an independent third-party, was engaged to value the acquired intangible assets.
The values attributable to the identified intangible assets are set out below, along with the assets estimated life.
life Intangible assets Customer Relationships 10,263 12 years Trademarks 4,876 20 years Software 4,589 8 years Database 594 10 years Total identifiable intangible assets 20,322 Deferred tax liabilities in relation to the recognised acquisition intangibles totalling 5.3 million which will be amortised over the corresponding periods to those set out above.
The fair value of acquired receivables at the date of acquisition 2.7 million is net of a provision for unrecoverable debtors 0.7 million.
Provision for potential employment tax related liabilities 1.8 million.
The goodwill arising on acquisition of Opta is largely attributable to the anticipated synergies created by the highly complementary business activities.
None of this goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.
Acquisition-related costs included in administrative expenses amount to 2.2 million.
The Groups results for the period include post acquisition revenue of 11.0 million and a profit after tax of 1.9 million.
Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2013 it would have contributed revenue and statutory profit after tax for the period of approximately 17.9 million and 2.3 million respectively.
Perform Sporting News Limited PSN On 28 March 2013 the Group partnered with American City Business Journals ACBJ to establish a new company, Perform Sporting News Limited PSN.
The ownership of PSN is weighted 65:35 in the Groups favour and as such it has been determined the Group has control over the newly formed entity.
The fair value of consideration was determined to be 35% of the Perform entity transferred by Perform to ACBJ in exchange for 65% of Sporting News.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 127 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 28.
Acquisitions continued The following table sets out identifiable assets and liabilities acquired at the acquisition date.
Fair values are provisional as at 31 December 2013 and are based on the information held to date: Fair value 000 Non-current assets Intangible assets 5,318 Deferred tax asset 596 Current assets Trade and other receivables 2,942 Cash and cash equivalents 2,769 Total assets 11,625 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 4,156 Non-current liabilities Non-current borrowings 1,312 Deferred tax liability 2,129 Total liabilities 7,597 Net assets acquired 4,028 Other reserves 7,222 Non-controlling interest 1,413 Goodwill arising 4,607 Fair value adjustments relate primarily to the following: Recognition of intangible assets for the Sporting News trademark and domain name, customer relationships and the technology platform totalling 5.3 million.
The domain name was valued at 4.0 million with an estimated life of 20 years.
Customer relationships have been valued at 0.9 million with an estimated life of 8 years.
The technology platform has been valued at 0.4 million with an estimated life between 4 and 12 years.
Deferred tax liabilities in relation to the recognised acquisition intangibles totalling 2.1 million which will be amortised over the corresponding periods to those set out above.
An onerous contract provision has also been recognised at acquisition for an advertising marketing agreement with AOL totalling 1.3million which will be released over the remaining life of the agreement expiring February 2014.
The other reserves created on acquisition is the difference between the book value and fair value of the Perform assets contributed to the new venture.
The goodwill arising on acquisition of Perform Sporting News is attributable to the anticipated profitability and cashflows arising from the business acquired.
As part of the agreement, the Group is entitled to buy out ACBJs equity at any time for a pre-determined cash price of $65 million, before 1 January 2017, or $75 million, between 1 January 2017 and 31 December 2018 except for the months of April and May in each year and $85million after 1 January 2019 except for during the months of April and May.
The consideration will be subject to a minimum value of $35 million and a maximum value of $85 million and can be satisfied by the issue of new shares at the Groups discretion.
The consideration will be satisfied in cash and will be subject to a minimum and maximum value.
128 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements The Group has considered the fair value of this financial asset.
Acquisition-related costs included in administrative expenses amount to 2.7 million.
The Groups results for the period include incremental post acquisition revenue of 5.6 million and a loss after tax of 2.1 million.
Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2013 it would have contributed incremental revenue and statutory loss after tax for the period of approximately 7.5 million and 2.8 million respectively.
Voetbalzone B. V. The Group acquired Voetbalzone on 4 March 2013 for initial consideration of 2 million.
Additional contingent consideration of up to 10.5million is payable based on the EBITDA of Voetbalzone for the years to 31 December 2013, 2014 and 2015.
The following table sets out the book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the Group at the acquisition date: Fair value 000 Non-current assets Intangible assets 1,877 Current assets Trade and other receivables 95 Cash and cash equivalents 43 Total assets 2,015 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 231 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liability 450 Total liabilities 681 Net assets acquired 1,334 Goodwill arising 4,933 Fair value of total consideration 6,267 Fair value adjustments relate primarily to the following: Recognition of an intangible asset for customer relationships valued at 0.6 million: Recognition of an intangible asset for the domain names of the acquired websites, valued at 1.1 million: Deferred tax liabilities of 0.5 million in respect of intangible assets acquired.
The goodwill arising on acquisition of Voetbalzone is largely attributable to the anticipated synergies created by the highly complementary business activities.
Acquisition-related costs included in administrative expenses amount to 0.2 million.
The Groups results for the period include post acquisition revenue of 1.2 million and a profit after tax of 0.9 million.
Had the acquisition occurred on 1 January 2013 it would have contributed revenue and statutory profit after tax for the period of approximately 1.3 million and 1.0 million respectively.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 129 Notes to the Group financialstatements continued Year ended 31 December 2013 28.
Acquisitions continued Perform Media Sales Japan In June 2013 a new Japanese company Perform Media Sales Japan was incorporated.
The Directors consider that whilst this option represents a financial asset it has no significant value as it is calculated and satisfied at fair value.
Fair values are provisional as at 31 December 2013 and are based on the information held to date: Fair value 000 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 946 Total liabilities 946 Net assets acquired 946 Goodwill arising 946 Fair value of total consideration The goodwill arising on the acquisition is largely attributable to the anticipated synergies created by the highly complementary businessactivities.
RunningBall Holding AG RunningBall The book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the Group at the acquisition date were set out in the Groups 2012 financial statements.
No material amendments were made to those values which have now been finalised with the exception of the recognition of provisions for bad debt and dilapidations of 0.4 million offset by the revaluation of the deferred tax liabilities in relation to acquisition intangibles 0.3 million which increased goodwill to 82.4 million.
Mackolik Internet Hitzmetleri Ticaret A. S. Mackolik The book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the Group at the acquisition date were set out in the Groups 2012 financial statements.
No material amendments were made to those values which have now been finalised with the exception of the recognition of provisions for employee retirement obligations and dilapidations of 0.2 million which increased goodwill to 13.9million.
fide The book values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired and their fair value to the Group at the acquisition date were set out in the Groups 2012 financial statements.
No material amendments were made to those values which have now been finalised.
130 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Corporate Report Governance Financial Statements 29.
Commitments a Operating leases At the balance sheet date, the Group had total outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Within one year 2,560 1,599 In the second to fifth years inclusive 4,543 931 After five years 92 62 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for office property and computer equipment costs.
b Rights commitments At 31 December 2013 the Group had commitments to acquire sports content rights of 114 million 2012: 84 million of which 61 million 2012: 43 million is due in the next year and the remaining 53 million 2012: 41 million is due in the next two to five years.
c Acquisition-related commitments The Group has a contractual commitment to pay contingent consideration in 2013, 2014 and 2015 in relation to the acquisitions of RunningBall, Spox and msd as well as WatchandTrade, Voetbalzone, Opta and Mackolik.
Refer to notes 1 and 20 or further details.
Related parties There are no additional related party transactions to disclose.
Contingent liabilities There were no contingent liabilities at the year end 2012: nil.
Subsequent events Subsequent to the year end, on 26 February 2014, the Group completed the acquisition of 51% of Activaweb SAS for initial consideration of 5 million.
Additional contingent consideration of up to 7 million is payable based on the EBITDA of Activaweb for the years to 31 December 2013, 2014 and 2015.
The remaining 49% will be acquired in two tranches 29% will be transferred on payment of the consideration in 2015 and 20% will be transferred on payment of the consideration in 2016.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 131
