Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2013 1 Corporate information When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or similar The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant facts and the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 were circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the including: Directors on 25 February 2014.
The contractual arrangement with the other vote holders Petrofac Limited is a limited liability company registered and of the investee domiciled in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 Rights arising from other contractual arrangements and is the holding company for the international group of Petrofac The Groups voting rights and potential voting rights subsidiaries together the Group.
The Companys 31 December The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts 2013 financial statements are shown on pages 171 to 184. and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more The Groups principal activity is the provision of services to the of the three elements of control.
Consolidation of a subsidiary oil and gas production and processing industry.
begins when the Group obtains control over the subsidiary and The principal Group companies, and joint venture entities, ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary.
Assets, are contained in note 30 to these consolidated financial statements.
liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the statement of comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date the 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries consolidated by the Group historical cost basis, except for derivative financial instruments and are disclosed separately from the Groups equity and income contingent consideration which have been measured at fair value.
statement and non-controlling interests are allocated their share The presentation currency of the consolidated financial statements of total comprehensive income for the year even if this results is United States dollars and all values in the financial statements are in a deficit balance.
rounded to the nearest million US$m except where otherwise New standards and interpretations stated.
The Group has adopted new and revised Standards and Statement of compliance Interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and its Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with International Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB that are relevant to its Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and applicable requirements operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on or after of Jersey law.
The principal effects of the adoption of the relevant new and amended standards and interpretations are discussed Restatements below: The financial performance of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012, the financial position of the Group as at 31 IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive December 2012 and the statement of cash flows of the Group for Income Amendment the year ended 31 December 2012 have been restated by replacing The amendments to IAS 1 introduce a grouping of items presented proportionate consolidation of joint ventures with the equity method in other comprehensive income OCI.
Items that could be recycled of accounting, as a result of the application of new IFRS 11 Joint to the consolidated income statement at a future point in time now Arrangements and amended IAS 28 Investment in associates and have to be presented separately from items that will never be joint ventures refer note 13 for details.
The loan extended in recycled.
The amendment only affected the presentation and had respect of development of the Greater Stella Area of US$115m was no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
incorrectly classified in the cash flow statements for the year ended IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 27 31 December 2012, The financial statements have been restated to Separate Financial Statements re-classify the amount of the loan given by the company from IFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities operating activities to investing activities to correctly disclose the including special purpose entities.
IFRS 10 replaces the parts of the nature of the loan.
This restatement had no impact on the profit previously existing IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial number of both the prior and the current period.
Statements that dealt with consolidated financial statements and Basis of consolidation SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
IFRS 10 changes The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial the definition of control such that an investor controls an investee statements of Petrofac Limited and its subsidiaries.
The financial when it is exposed, or has rights to variable returns from its statements of its subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those year as the Company and where necessary, adjustments are made returns through its power over the investee.
To meet the definition of to the financial statements of the Groups subsidiaries to bring their control in IFRS 10, all three criteria must be met, including: a an accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
investor has power over an investee: b the investor has exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee: Control is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to and c the investor has the ability to use its power over the investee variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the to affect the amount of the investors returns.
IFRS 10 has had no ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
All impact on the consolidation of investments held by the Group.
intra-Group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits, have been eliminated on consolidation.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IAS 28 Investment in Associates and Joint Ventures IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC 13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions by Venturers.
IFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
Instead, JCEs that meet the definition of a joint venture under IFRS 11 must be accounted for using the equity method.
124 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 The application of this new standard impacted the financial position Significant accounting judgements and estimates of the Group by replacing proportionate consolidation of the joint Judgements venture in Petrofac Emirates LLC, TTE Petrofac Limited, In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, Professional Mechanical Repair Services Company, Spie Capag management has made the following judgements, apart from those Petrofac International Limited and China Petroleum Petrofac involving estimations, which have the most significant effect on the Engineering Services Cooperatif U.
A. with the equity method of amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements: accounting.
IFRS 11 is effective for annual periods beginning on or revenue recognition on fixed-price engineering, procurement after 1 January 2013.
The effect of IFRS 11 is described in more and construction contracts: the Group recognises revenue on detail in note 13, which includes quantification of the effect on the fixed-price engineering, procurement and construction contracts financial statements.
using the  method, based on surveys IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities of work performed.
The Group has determined this basis of IFRS 12 sets out the requirements for disclosures relating to an revenue recognition is the best available measure of progress entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and on such contracts structured entities.
The requirements in IFRS 12 are more revenue recognition on Integrated Energy Services contracts: the comprehensive than the previously existing disclosure requirements Group assesses on a case by case basis the most appropriate for subsidiaries.
The Group does not have subsidiaries with material treatment for its various of commercial structures which include non-controlling interests and there are no unconsolidated structured Risk Service Contracts, Production Enhancement Contracts and entities.
IFRS 12 disclosures are provided in notes 13 and 30.
Equity Upstream Investments including Production Sharing Contracts see accounting policies note on page 131 for further IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement details.
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity Estimation uncertainty is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or of estimation uncertainty at the statement of financial position date, permitted.
The application of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the the fair value measurements carried out by the Group.
Additional carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial disclosures where required, are provided in the individual notes year are discussed below: relating to the assets and liabilities whose fair values were provisions for liquidated damages claims LDs : the Group determined.
The Fair value hierarchy is provided in note 15. provides for LD claims where there have been significant contract Standards issued but not yet effective delays and it is considered probable that the customer will Standards issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance successfully pursue such a claim.
This requires an estimate of the of the Groups financial statements are listed below and include only amount of LDs payable under a claim which involves a number of those standards and interpretations that are likely to have an impact management judgements and assumptions regarding the amounts on the disclosures, financial position or performance of the Group to recognise at a future date.
The Group intends to adopt these standards when project cost to complete estimates: at each statement of financial they become effective.
position date the Group is required to estimate costs to complete on fixed-price contracts.
Estimating costs to complete on such IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification contracts requires the Group to make estimates of future costs and Measurement to be incurred, based on work to be performed beyond the IFRS 9, as issued, reflects the first phase of the IASBs work on the statement of financial position date.
This estimate will impact replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and revenues, cost of sales, work-in-progress, billings in excess of measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as defined in costs and estimated earnings and accrued contract expenses IAS 39.
In subsequent phases, the IASB is addressing hedge recognition of contract variation orders VOs : the Group accounting and impairment of financial assets.
The adoption of the recognises revenues and margins from VOs where it is first phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and considered probable that they will be awarded by the customer measurement of the Groups financial assets, but will not have an and this requires management to assess the likelihood of such an impact on classification and measurements of the Groups financial award being made by reference to customer communications and liabilities.
The IASB decided that a mandatory date of 1 January other forms of documentary evidence 2015 would not allow sufficient time for entities to prepare to apply onerous contract provisions: the Group provides for future losses the new Standard because the impairment phase of the IFRS 9 on long-term contracts where it is considered probable that the project has not yet been completed.
Accordingly, the IASB decided contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years.
that a new date should be decided upon when the entire IFRS 9 Estimating these future losses involves a number of assumptions project is closer to completion.
The Group will quantify the effect in about the achievement of contract performance targets and conjunction with the other phases, when the final standard including the likely levels of future cost escalation over time US$ nil at all phases is issued.
31 December 2013 2012: US$ nil IAS 39 Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of Hedge impairment of goodwill: the Group determines whether goodwill Accounting Amendments to IAS 39 is impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation These amendments provide relief from discontinuing hedge of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the accounting when novation of a derivative designated as a hedging goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the instrument meets certain criteria.
These amendments are effective Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The Group from each cash-generating unit and also to determine a suitable has not novated its derivatives during the current period.
However, discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash these amendments would be considered for future novations.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 31 December 2013 was US$155m 2012: US$125m note 11 125 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the continued investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of deferred tax assets: the Group recognises deferred tax assets net assets of the associate or joint venture since the acquisition on all applicable temporary differences where it is probable that date.
Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is included in future taxable profits will be available for utilisation.
This requires the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor management to make judgements and assumptions regarding individually tested for impairment.
the amount of deferred tax that can be recognised based on the magnitude and likelihood of future taxable profits.
The carrying The consolidated income statement reflects the Groups share of amount of deferred tax assets at 31 December 2013 was the results of operations of the associate or joint venture.
Any US$37m 2012: US$43m change in OCI of those investees is presented as part of the income tax: the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to Groups OCI.
In addition, when there has been a change recognised routine tax audits and also a process whereby tax computations directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the Group are discussed and agreed with the appropriate authorities.
Whilst recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the the ultimate outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot statement of changes in equity.
Unrealised gains and losses be determined with certainty, management estimates the level of resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate or provisions required for both current and deferred tax on the basis joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the of professional advice and the nature of current discussions with associate or joint venture.
the tax authority concerned The Groups interests in joint operation are recognised in relation to recoverable value of property, plant and equipment, intangible oil its interest in a joint operations: and gas and other intangible assets: the Group determines at each statement of financial position date whether there is any Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly evidence of indicators of impairment in the carrying value of its Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly property, plant and equipment, intangible oil and gas and other Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from intangible assets.
Where indicators exist, an impairment test is the joint operation undertaken which requires management to estimate the Share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the recoverable value of its assets for example by reference to quoted joint operation market values, similar arms length transactions involving these Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly assets, fair value less costs of disposal discounted cash flow Under joint operations, the expenses that the Group incurs and its models or value in use calculations.
For certain oil and gas assets, share of the revenue earned is recognised in the consolidated where impairment triggers were identified, the recoverable income statement.
Assets controlled by the Group and liabilities amounts for these assets were estimated using both value in use incurred by it are recognised in the statement of financial position.
and fair value less costs of disposal discounted cash flow models.
For all assets tested, the recoverable amount was higher than the The Group recognises its share of the profits after tax and carrying amount and therefore no impairment was recorded.
The non-controlling interest of the associates and joint ventures in its key sources of estimation uncertainty for these tests are consistent consolidated income statement.
Any unrealised gains and losses with those disclosed in note 11. resulting from transactions between the Group and the associate units of production depreciation: estimated proven plus probable and joint venture are eliminated to the extent of the interest in its reserves are used in determining the depreciation of oil and gas associates and joint ventures.
assets such that the depreciation charge is proportional to the Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements depletion of the remaining reserves over their life of production.
of the Groups joint ventures and operations to bring their These calculations require the use of estimates including the accounting policies into line with those of the Group.
amount of economically recoverable reserves and future oil and gas capital expenditure After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its Investment in associates and joint ventures investment in its associate or joint venture.
At each reporting date, An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant the Group determines whether there is objective evidence that the influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired.
If there is financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not such evidence, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as control or joint control over those policies.
the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate or A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties joint venture and its carrying value, then recognises the loss as that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net Selling, general and administration expenses in the consolidated assets of the joint venture.
A joint operation is a type of joint income statement.
arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the Upon loss of significant influence over the associate or joint control arrangement have rights to the assets and obligations for the over the joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Joint control is the retained investment at its fair value.
Any difference between the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which carrying amount of the associate or joint venture upon loss of exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require significant influence or joint control and the fair value of the retained unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in The considerations made in determining significant influence or consolidated income statement.
joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control over subsidiaries.
The Groups investments in its associate and joint venture are accounted for using the equity method.
126 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Foreign currency translation Non-current assets held for sale The Companys functional and presentational currency is US dollars.
Non-current assets or disposal Groups are classified as held for In the financial statements of individual subsidiaries, joint ventures, sale when it is expected that the carrying amount of an asset will joint operations and associates, transactions in currencies other be recovered principally through sale rather than continuing use.
than a companys functional currency are recorded at the prevailing Assets are not depreciated when classified as held for sale.
rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
At the year end, Borrowing costs monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of qualifying retranslated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the reporting date.
assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at historical of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to the cost of cost in a foreign currency are translated using the rate of exchange those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Non-monetary assets and for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as liabilities measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated interest payable in the consolidated income statement in the period using the rate of exchange at the date the fair value was in which they are incurred.
All foreign exchange gains and losses are taken to the consolidated income statement with the exception of exchange Business combinations and goodwill differences arising on monetary assets and liabilities that form part Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition of the Groups net investment in subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of directly to the statement of changes in equity until the disposal the consideration transferred measured at acquisition date fair value of the net investment at which time they are recognised in the and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the The statements of financial position of overseas subsidiaries, joint proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
ventures, joint operations and associates are translated into US Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred and included in dollars using the closing rate method, whereby assets and liabilities administrative expenses.
are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the reporting date.
The income statements of overseas subsidiaries and joint When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial operations are translated at average exchange rates for the year.
assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of net assets are designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic taken directly to other reserves within the statement of changes circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
On the disposal of a foreign entity, accumulated exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement If the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously as a component of the gain or loss on disposal.
held equity interest is re-measured at its acquisition date fair value and any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
It is then Property, plant and equipment considered in the determination of goodwill.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Cost comprises the Goodwill acquired in a business combination is initially measured at purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over attributable to making that asset capable of operating as intended.
the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount liabilities of the entity at the date of acquisition.
Following initial paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated the asset.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis, other impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, than on oil and gas assets, at the following rates: or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that such carrying value may be impaired.
All transaction costs Oil and gas facilities 10% 12.5% associated with business combinations are charged to the Plant and equipment 4% 33% consolidated income statement in the year of such combination.
Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% 33% or lease term if shorter For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is allocated Office furniture and equipment 25% 50% to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the Vehicles 20% 33% synergies of the combination.
Each unit or units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which Tangible oil and gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to proven is not larger than an operating segment determined in accordance and probable reserves, taking account of estimated future with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
development expenditure relating to those reserves, refer to page 45 for life of these fields.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method recoverable amount of the cash-generating units is less than the of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each carrying amount of the cash-generating units and related goodwill, financial year end.
an impairment loss is recognised.
No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
Where goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment part of the operation within those units is disposed of, the goodwill is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying are expected from its use or disposal.
The gain or loss arising from amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on the fide-recognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance included in the consolidated income statement when the item is is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed derecognised.
Gains are not classified as revenue.
of and the portion of the cash-generating units retained.
127 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Development expenditures Expenditure relating to development of assets which include the continued construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities Contingent consideration payable on a business combination such as platforms, pipelines and development wells, is capitalised When, as part of a business combination, the Group defers a within property, plant and equipment.
proportion of the total purchase consideration payable for an acquisition, the amount provided for is the acquisition date fair value Changes in unit-of-production factors of the consideration.
The unwinding of the discount element is Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations recognised as a finance cost in the consolidated income statement.
are dealt with prospectively in accordance with the treatment of For business combinations prior to 1 January 2010, all changes in changes in accounting estimates, not by immediate adjustment of estimated contingent consideration payable on acquisition are prior years amounts.
adjusted against the carried goodwill.
For business combinations Decommissioning after 1 January 2010, changes in estimated contingent Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when consideration payable on acquisition are recognised in the the Group has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility consolidated income statement unless they are measurement or an item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, period adjustments which arise as a result of additional information and when a reasonable estimate of that liability can be made.
obtained after the acquisition date about the facts and The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future circumstances existing at the acquisition date, which are adjusted expenditure.
An amount equivalent to the discounted initial provision against carried goodwill.
Contingent consideration that is classified for decommissioning costs is capitalised and amortised over the life as equity is not re-measured and subsequent settlement is of the underlying asset on a unit-of-production basis over proven accounted for within equity.
Any change in the present value of the Intangible assets non oil and gas assets estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially and the oil and gas asset.
measured at cost being their fair values at the date of acquisition The unwinding of the discount applied to future decommissioning and are recognised separately from goodwill where the asset is provisions is included under finance costs in the consolidated separable or arises from a contractual or other legal right and its fair income statement.
value can be measured reliably.
After initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any Impairment of assets excluding goodwill accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life At each statement of financial position date, the Group reviews are amortised over their useful economic life using a straight-line the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to assess method unless a better method reflecting the pattern in which the whether there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
assets future economic benefits are expected to be consumed If any such indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the can be determined.
The amortisation charge in respect of intangible assets recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount is assets is included in the selling, general and administration the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and its value expenses line of the consolidated income statement.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis.
Any change attributable to the asset are discounted to their present value using in the useful life or pattern of consumption of the intangible asset is a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments treated as a change in accounting estimate and is accounted for of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
prospectively by changing the amortisation period or method.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its Intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever there is an carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its indication that the asset may be impaired.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately Oil and gas assets in the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is Capitalised costs carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is The Groups activities in relation to oil and gas assets are limited treated as a revaluation decrease.
to assets in the evaluation, development and production phases.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying Oil and gas evaluation and development expenditure is accounted amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its for using the successful efforts method of accounting.
recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been Evaluation expenditures determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised activities is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Such costs include the immediately in the consolidated income statement, unless the costs of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, payments relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the to contractors and an appropriate share of directly attributable reversal of the impairment is treated as a revaluation increase.
overheads incurred during the evaluation phase.
For such appraisal activity, which may require drilling of further wells, costs continue to Inventories be carried as an asset whilst related hydrocarbons are considered Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Such costs are subject to Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary technical, commercial and management review to confirm the course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value.
When this estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Cost comprises is no longer the case, the costs are written-off in the income purchase price, cost of production, transportation and other directly statement.
When such assets are declared part of a commercial allocable expenses.
Costs of inventories, other than raw materials, development, related costs are transferred to tangible oil and gas are determined using the first-in-first-out method.
All intangible oil and gas assets are assessed for any materials are determined using the weighted average method.
impairment prior to transfer and any impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
128 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and Fair value measurement estimated earnings The Group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives at Fixed price lump sum engineering, procurement and construction fair value at each reporting date.
Also, fair values of financial contracts are presented in the statement of financial position as instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in note 29. follows: Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid for each contract, the accumulated cost incurred, as well as to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market the estimated earnings recognised at the contracts percentage participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement of completion less provision for any anticipated losses, after is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or deducting the progress payments received or receivable from transfer the liability takes place either: the customers, are shown in current assets in the statement In the principal market for the asset or liability, or of financial position under work in progress In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous where the payments received or receivable for any contract market for the asset or liability exceed the cost and estimated earnings less provision for any anticipated losses, the excess is shown as billings in excess The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible of cost and estimated earnings within current liabilities to by the Group.
Trade and other receivables The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the Trade receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the amount less an allowance for any amounts estimated to be asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their uncollectable.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when there is economic best interest.
objective evidence that the collection of the full amount is no longer A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account probable under the terms of the original invoice.
Impaired debts are a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using derecognised when they are assessed as uncollectable.
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another Cash and cash equivalents market participant that would use the asset in its highest and Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand best use.
and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the or less.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed All interest-bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs directly hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that attributable to the borrowing.
is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective identical assets or liabilities interest rate method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly on settlement.
observable Provisions Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the transfers have occurred between Levels in the hierarchy by retime value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase each reporting period.
in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised in the consolidated income statement as a finance cost.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
129 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 2 Summary of significant accounting policies The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the continued relevant employees become fully entitled to the award the vesting fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities period.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled Financial assets transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the A financial asset or, where applicable a part of a financial asset extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best is fide-recognised where: estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income statement charge or credit for a period represents the the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, and end of that period.
but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third-party under a pass-through arrangement: or No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has provided that all other performance conditions and service transferred control of the asset conditions are satisfied.
Equity awards cancelled are treated as vesting immediately on the date of cancellation, and any expense Financial liabilities not recognised for the award at that date is recognised in the A financial liability is fide-recognised when the obligation under the consolidated income statement.
liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Petrofac Employee Benefit Trusts If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture lender, on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing Companies Employee Benefit Trust warehouse ordinary shares liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification purchased to satisfy various new share scheme awards made to the is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the employees of the Company and its joint venture partner employees, recognition of a new liability such that the difference in the which will be transferred to the members of the scheme on their respective carrying amounts together with any costs or fees respective vesting dates subject to satisfying the performance incurred are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The trusts continue to be consolidated Offsetting of financial instruments in the Group financial statements under IFRS 10, which has been Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount adopted in the current year.
is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there Treasury shares is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised For the purpose of making awards under its employee share amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise schemes, the Company acquires its own shares which are held by the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
the Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture Pensions and other long-term employment benefits Companies Employee Benefit Trust.
All these shares have been The Group has various defined contribution pension schemes in classified in the statement of financial position as treasury shares accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries within equity.
Shares vested during the year are satisfied with in which it operates.
The amount charged to the consolidated treasury shares.
income statement in respect of pension costs reflects the Leases contributions payable in the year.
Differences between contributions The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains a lease payable during the year and contributions actually paid are shown is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date and as either accrued liabilities or prepaid assets in the statement of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use financial position.
of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys the right The Groups other long-term employment benefits are provided in to use the asset.
accordance with the labour laws of the countries in which the Group Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the operates, further details of which are given in note 25. lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership Share-based payment transactions to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration Assets held under finance leases are recognised as non-current in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby assets of the Group at the lower of their fair value at the date of employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over commencement of the lease and the present value of the minimum shares equity-settled transactions.
These assets are depreciated on a straight-line Equity-settled transactions basis over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured term.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance costs service or performance conditions, other than conditions linked in the income statement and reduction of the lease obligation so as to the price of the shares of Petrofac Limited market conditions, to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of if applicable.
The Group has entered into various operating leases the payments for which are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
130 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Revenue recognition Pre-contract bid costs Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic Pre-contract bid costs incurred are recognised as an expense until benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably there is a high probability that the contract will be awarded, after measured.
The following specific recognition criteria also apply: which all further costs are recognised as assets and expensed over the life of the contract.
Onshore Engineering & Construction Revenues from fixed-price lump-sum contracts are recognised Income taxes using the  method, based on surveys of Income tax expense represents the sum of current income tax and work performed once the outcome of a contract can be estimated deferred tax.
In the early stages of contract completion, when the Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that from, or paid to the taxation authorities.
Taxable profit differs from are expected to be recoverable.
profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the basis excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible of costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned measured by in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or the cost-to-cost method.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period statement of financial position date.
in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract schedule of rates.
Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences at the statement of financial position date between the carrying amounts of Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the of contracts entered into at the statement of financial position date, corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, whether or not work has commenced on these contracts.
with the following exceptions: Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a performance standards will be met or exceeded and the amount business combination that at the time of the transaction affects of the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Variation orders neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss are only included in revenue when it is probable they will be in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with accepted and can be measured reliably and claims are only investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, included in revenue when negotiations have reached an where the timing of reversal of the temporary differences can be advanced stage.
controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services not reverse in the foreseeable future: and and Integrated Energy Services deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period probable that a taxable profit will be available against which the in which the services are provided based on the agreed contract deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax schedule of rates.
losses can be utilised Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each  method, measured by milestones statement of financial position date and reduced to the extent that it completed or earned value once the outcome of a contract can be is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to estimated reliably.
In the early stages of contract completion, when allow all or part of the deferred tax assets to be utilised.
the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each statement revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that of financial position date and are recognised to the extent that it has are expected to be recoverable.
become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted performance standards will be met or exceeded and the amount basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset is of the incentive payments can be measured reliably.
Claims are only realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws included in revenue when negotiations have reached an advanced enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial stage such that it is probable the claim will be accepted and can be position date.
Current and deferred tax is charged or credited directly to other Integrated Energy Services comprehensive income or equity if it relates to items that are Oil and gas revenues comprise the Groups share of sales from the credited or charged to respectively, other comprehensive income processing or sale of hydrocarbons from the Groups Equity or equity.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the consolidated Upstream Investments on an entitlement basis, when the significant income statement.
risks and rewards of ownership have been passed to the buyer.
Revenue from production enhancement contracts is recognised based on the volume of hydrocarbons produced in the period and the agreed tariff and the reimbursement arrangement for costs incurred.
131 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Cash flow hedges For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on continued the hedging instrument is recognised directly in the other Derivative financial instruments and hedging comprehensive income in the net unrealised gains losses on The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward derivatives, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the currency contracts and oil price collars and forward contracts to consolidated income statement.
Amounts taken to other hedge its risks associated with foreign currency and oil price comprehensive income are transferred to the consolidated income fluctuations.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially statement when the hedged transaction affects the consolidated recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is income statement.
entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of comprehensive income remains separately in equity until the derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken forecast transaction occurs and affects the consolidated income to the consolidated income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in the other reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of oil price collar contracts is consolidated income statement.
determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
Embedded derivatives For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the with reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or significantly modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash are not clearly and closely related to the underlying asset, liability flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated or transaction are separated and accounted for as with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable standalone derivatives.
forecast transaction The Group formally designates and documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item at the inception of the transaction, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The documentation also includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of risk being hedged and how the Group will assess the hedging instruments effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship, as follows: 132 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 3 Segment information The Group delivers its services through the four reporting segments set out below: Onshore Engineering & Construction which provides engineering, procurement and construction project execution services to the onshore oil and gas industry Offshore Projects & Operations which provides offshore engineering, operations and maintenance onshore and offshore and engineering, procurement and construction project execution services to the offshore oil and gas industry Engineering & Consulting Services which provides technical engineering, consultancy, conceptual design, front end engineering and design FEED and project management consultancy PMC across all sectors including renewables and carbon capture Integrated Energy Services which co-invests with partners in oil and gas production, processing and transportation assets, provides production improvement services under value aligned commercial structures and oil and gas related technical competency training and consultancy services Management separately monitors the trading results of its four reporting segments for the purpose of making an assessment of their performance and making decisions about how resources are allocated to them.
Each segments performance is measured based on its profitability which is reflected in a manner consistent with the results shown below.
However, certain shareholder services related overheads, Group financing and consolidation adjustments are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to reporting segments.
The following tables represent revenue and profit information relating to the Groups reporting segments for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Year ended 31 December 2013 Onshore Offshore Engineering Integrated Consolidation Engineering & Projects & & Consulting Energy Corporate adjustments Construction Operations Services Services & others & eliminations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1 External sales 3,524 1,639 196 922 48 6,329 Inter-segment sales 10 32 166 12 220 Total revenue 3,534 1,671 362 934 172 6,329 2 Segment results 483 99 31 146 2 19 780 Unallocated corporate costs 9 9 Profit loss before tax and finance income costs 483 99 31 146 7 19 771 Share of profits of associates joint ventures 2 20 22 Finance costs 2 3 12 23 12 28 Finance income 16 1 23 27 43 24 Profit loss before income tax 497 97 33 177 3 12 789 Income tax expense 50 28 4 56 3 1 142 Non-controlling interests 3 3 Profit loss for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders 447 69 32 121 6 13 650 Other segment information Capital expenditures: Property, plant and equipment 60 40 6 497 5 11 597 Intangible oil and gas assets 43 43 Charges: Depreciation 52 19 5 144 11 2 229 Amortisation, impairment and write off 4 5 9 Other long-term employment benefits 19 1 20 Share-based payments 9 2 1 2 1 15 1 Positive elimination of external sales shown above of US$48m represents a Group adjustment to the overall project percentage of completion on the LagganTormore project as OEC and OPO are reflecting in their segments progress on their own respective shares of the total project scope.
2 Includes US$22m gain arising from the granting of a finance lease for the FPF5 floating production facility to the PM304 joint venture in which the Group has a 30% interest.
133 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3 Segment information continued Year ended 31 December 2012 restated Onshore Offshore Engineering Integrated Consolidation Engineering & Projects & & Consulting Energy Corporate adjustments Construction Operations Services Services & others & eliminations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue 1 External sales 4,262 1,237 97 693 49 6,240 Inter-segment sales 26 166 148 15 355 Total revenue 4,288 1,403 245 708 404 6,240 2 Segment results 540 80 30 138 6 26 768 Unallocated corporate costs 4 4 Profit loss before tax and finance income costs 540 80301382 26 764 Share of losses of associates joint ventures 1 5 6 Finance costs 4 6 5 5 Finance income 8 1 7 9 13 12 Profit loss before income tax 548 79 31 136 5 34 765 Income tax expense income 69 18 4 47 8 5 135 Non-controlling interests 2 2 Profit loss for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders 479 61 29 89 13 39 632 Other segment information Capital expenditures: Property, plant and equipment 74 13 7 355 4 25 428 Intangible oil and gas assets 165 165 Charges: Depreciation 35 155556 2 114 Amortisation, impairment and write off 1 1 8 1 11 Other long-term employment benefits 16 1 1 1 19 Share-based payments 13 3 1 5 4 26 1 Elimination of external sales shown above of US$49m represents a Group adjustment to the overall project percentage of completion on the Laggan-Tormore project as OEC and OPO are reflecting in their segments progress on their own respective shares of the total project scope.
2 Includes US$31m elimination on consolidation of profit made by OPO on the upgrade of the FPF5 floating production facility, the costs of which have been capitalised in the property, plant and equipment of IES.
Geographical segments The following tables present revenue from external customers based on their location and non-current assets by geographical segments for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012.
Year ended 31 December 2013 United United Arab Saudi Other Iraq Kingdom Turkmenistan Algeria Emirates Malaysia Arabia countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenues from external customers 1,640 697 714 678 556 395 388 1,261 6,329 United United Arab Other Kingdom Emirates Mexico Romania Malaysia Tunisia countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 48 139 327 139 377 50 111 1,191 Intangible oil and gas assets 11 270 8 1 290 Other intangible assets 10 24 5 1 40 Goodwill 107 44 4 155 134 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012 restated United United Arab Other Turkmenistan Kingdom Algeria Emirates Malaysia Kuwait Qatar countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenues from external customers 1,697 1,186 862 720 448 319 259 749 6,240 United United Arab Other Kingdom Emirates Mexico Romania Malaysia Singapore countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 68 120 86 75 382 76 90 897 Intangible oil and gas assets 10 251 7 268 Other intangible assets 13 16 5 5 39 Goodwill 107 17 1 125 Revenues disclosed in the above tables are based on where the project is located.
Revenues representing greater than 10% of Group revenues arose from one customer amounting to US$696m 2012: one customer US$1,697m in the Onshore Engineering & Construction segment.
Revenue 2013 2012 US$m US$m Restated Rendering of services 6,181 6,121 Sale of crude oil and gas 148 111 Sale of processed hydrocarbons 8 6,329 6,240 Included in revenues from rendering of services are Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services and Integrated Energy Services revenues of a pass-through nature with zero or low margins amounting to US$389m 2012: US$220m.
The revenues are included as external revenues of the Group since the risks and rewards associated with recognition are assumed by the Group.
Cost of sales Included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 December 2013 is depreciation charged on property, plant and equipment of US$207m during 2013 2012: US$96m note 9.
Also included in cost of sales are forward points and ineffective portions on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and losses on undesignated derivatives of US$nil 2012: US$2m loss.
These amounts are an economic hedge of foreign exchange risk but do not meet the criteria within IAS 39 and are most appropriately recorded in cost of sales.
c. Selling, general and administration expenses 2013 2012 US$m US$m Restated Staff costs 245 226 Depreciation note 9 22 18 Amortisation note 12 9 4 Net impairment of an investment in associate note 13 7 Other operating expenses 111 102 387 357 Other operating expenses consist mainly of office, travel, legal and professional and contracting staff costs.
135 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4 Revenues and expenses continued d. Staff costs 2013 2012 US$m US$m Restated Total staff costs: Wages and salaries 1,154 1,147 Social security costs 58 52 Defined contribution pension costs 18 20 Other long-term employee benefit costs note 25 20 19 Expense of share-based payments note 22 15 26 1,265 1,264 Of the US$1,265m 2012: US$1,264m restated of staff costs shown above, US$1,020m 2012 restated: US$1,038m is included in cost of sales, with the remainder in selling, general and administration expenses.
The average number of payrolled staff employed by the Group during the year was 15,948 2012: 15,259. e. Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditors in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other services provided to the Group: 2013 2012 US$m US$m Group audit fee 2 1 Audit of accounts of subsidiaries 1 1 Others 1 1 4 3 Others include audit related assurance services of US$350,000 2012: US$327,000, tax advisory services of US$460,000 2012: US$235,000, tax compliance services of US$200,000 2012: US$113,000 and other non-audit services of US$340,000 2012: US$118,000.
f. Other income 2013 2012 US$m US$m Foreign exchange gains 10 9 Gain on disposal of non-current asset held for sale 27 Fair value on initial recognition of investment in associate note 13 9 Gain on disposal of an investment in a joint venture 6 Recovery of legal claim 6 Other income 1 8 11 65 Prior year gain on sale of non-current asset held for sale of US$36m comprised US$27m on disposal of 75.2% of Petrofacs interest in Petrofac FPF1 Limited to Ithaca Energy Inc and US$9m being the increase in fair value of the remaining 24.8% interest held which was classified as an associate.
g. Other expenses 2013 2012 US$m US$m Foreign exchange losses 15 11 Loss on fair value changes in Seven Energy warrants note 13 1 6 Other expenses 1 3 17 20 136 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 5 Finance costs income 2013 2012 US$m US$m Finance costs Long-term borrowings 23 2 Other interest, including short-term loans and overdrafts 1 1 Unwinding of discount on provisions note 25 4 2 Total finance costs 28 5 Finance income Bank interest receivable 1 5 Unwinding of discount on long-term receivables from customers 23 7 Total finance income 24 12 6 Income tax a.
Tax on ordinary activities The major components of income tax expense are as follows: 2013 2012 US$m US$m Current income tax Current income tax charge 170 97 Adjustments in respect of current income tax of previous years 29 29 Deferred tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 2 73 Recognition of tax losses relating to prior periods 1 6 Income tax expense reported in the income statement 142 135 Income tax reported in equity Deferred tax related to items charged directly to equity 2 4 Current income tax related to share schemes 5 Income tax income expense reported in equity 2 1 The split of the Groups tax charge between current and deferred tax varies from year to year depending largely on: the variance between tax provided on the percentage of completion of projects versus that paid on accrued income for engineering, procurement and construction contracts: and the tax deductions available for expenditure on Risk Service Contracts and Production Enhancement Contracts PECs, which are partially offset by the creation of losses.
See 6c below for the impact on the movements in the year.
b. Reconciliation of total tax charge A reconciliation between the income tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the Companys domestic tax rate is as follows: 2013 2012 US$m US$m Accounting profit before tax 789 765 At Jerseys domestic income tax rate of 0% 2012: 0% Expected tax charge in higher rate jurisdictions 154 160 Expenditure not allowable for income tax purposes 20 13 Adjustments in respect of previous years 28 36 Adjustments in respect of losses not previously recognised derecognised 8 2 Unrecognised tax losses 1 Other permanent differences 2 1 Effect of change in tax rates 1 1 At the effective income tax rate of 18.0% 2012: 17.7% 142 135 The Groups effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2013 is 18.0% 2012: 17.7%.
A number of factors have impacted the effective tax rate this year, net release of tax provisions held in respect of income taxes and from the recognition of tax losses previously unrecognised and the mix of profits in the jurisdictions in which profits are earned.
Adjustments in respect of prior periods represent the creation or release of tax provisions following the normal review, audit and final settlement process that occurs in the territories in which the Group operates.
From 1 April 2014, the main UK corporation tax rate will be 21%, subsequently reducing to 20% in 2015.
The change in the UK rate to 20% was substantively enacted as at the reporting date and the impact of the change has been included above.
137 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6 Income tax continued c. Deferred tax Deferred tax relates to the following: Consolidated statement Consolidated income of financial position statement 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities Fair value adjustment on acquisitions 3 3 Accelerated depreciation 204 121 83 78 Profit recognition 32 100 68 86 Other temporary differences 2 2 Gross deferred tax liabilities 241 224 Deferred tax assets Losses available for offset 93 96 3 94 Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 2 3 1 1 Share scheme 6 9 1 1 Profit recognition 6 11 5 Other temporary differences 31 5 26 1 Gross deferred tax assets 138 124 Net deferred tax liability deferred tax charge 103 100 1 67 Of which Deferred tax assets 37 43 Deferred tax liabilities 140 143 d. Unrecognised tax losses and tax credits Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry forwards and tax credits to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through offset against future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred income tax assets of US$29m 2012: US$27m.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Expiration dates for tax losses No earlier than 2018 7 No expiration date 17 8 17 15 Tax credits no expiration date 12 12 29 27 During 2013, the Group recognised a tax benefit from the utilisation of tax losses US$2m 2012: US$3m, recognition of losses not previously recognised of US$7m 2012: US$6m and there is no derecognition of tax losses from a prior period 2012: US$7m.
138 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 7 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, after adjusting for any dilutive effect, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for the effects of ordinary shares granted under the employee share award schemes which are held in trust.
The following reflects the income and share data used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share: 2013 2012 US$m US$m Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders for basic and diluted earnings per share 650 632 2013 2012 Number Number m m Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 341 340 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares granted under share-based payment schemes 3 3 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 344 343 8 Dividends paid and proposed 2013 2012 US$m US$m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2011: 37.20 cents per share 127 Interim dividend 2012: 21.00 cents per share 71 Final dividend for 2012: 43.00 cents per share 147 Interim dividend 2013: 22.00 cents per share 75 222 198 2013 2012 US$m US$m Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a liability as at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for 2013: 43.80 cents per share 2012: 43.00 cents per share 152 149 139 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9 Property, plant and equipment Land, buildings Office and furniture Assets Oil and gas Oil and gas leasehold Plant and and under assets facilities improvements equipment Vehicles equipment construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2012 118 426 206 25 17 116 24 932 Additions restated 170 139 28 3 6 29 53 428 Disposals 7 4 10 2 23 Exchange difference 1 1 2 At 1 January 2013 restated 288 558 231 18 23 144 77 1,339 Additions 491 38 8 1 36 23 597 Acquisition of subsidiaries 31 5 6 42 Disposals 110 1 1 1 4 117 Transfer from intangible oil and gas assets note 12 21 21 Transfers 28 43 71 Exchange difference 1 1 2 At 31 December 2013 828 448 343 30 23 183 29 1,884 Depreciation At 1 January 2012 62 137 59 17 12 62 349 Charge for the year restated 36 11 29 2 4 32 114 Disposals 7 4 10 1 22 Exchange difference 1 1 At 1 January 2013 restated 98 141 84 9 16 94 442 Charge for the year 102 34 53 6 4 30 229 Acquisition of subsidiaries 18 3 4 25 Disposals 1 1 3 5 Transfers 7 7 Exchange difference 1 1 2 At 31 December 2013 200 175 162 18 19 119 693 Net carrying amount: At 31 December 2013 628 273 181 12 4 64 29 1,191 At 31 December 2012 restated 190 417 147 9 7 50 77 897 Additions to oil and gas assets mainly comprise field development costs relating to block PM304 in Malaysia of US$46m, Santuario, Magallanes and Arenque PECs of US$211m, Ticleni PECs of US$54m and Panuco PECs of US$22m 2012: Santuario and Magallanes PECs of US$106m and Ticleni PECs of US$48m, capitalised decommissioning costs provided on the PM304 block in Malaysia of US$13m, Santuario, Magallanes and Arenque PECs of US$77m and Panuco PECs of US$10m.
Additions to oil and gas facilities in 2012 mainly comprised the upgrade of the FPF5 at a cost of US104m.
Disposal within oil and gas facilities in 2013 of US$110m represents a sale under a finance lease of the FPF5 to the PM304 joint venture in which the Group has a 30% interest.
Of the total charge for depreciation in the income statement, US$207m 2012: US$96m restated is included in cost of sales and US$22m 2012: US$18m in selling, general and administration expenses.
Assets under construction comprise expenditures incurred in relation to a new office building in the United Arab Emirates, the Group Enterprise Resource Planning ERP project and construction of the new Petrofac JSD6000 installation vessel.
Included in land, buildings and leasehold improvements and plant and equipment is property, plant and equipment under finance lease agreements, for which book values are as follows: 2013 2012 Net book value US$m US$m Gross book value 34 35 Addition 10 5 Depreciation 24 7 Exchange difference 1 1 At 31 December 19 34 140 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 10 Business combination Petrofac Emirates LLC PE The financial position and performance of PE have been consolidated into the Group financial statements from 1 January 2013, the effective date of the acquisition of an additional 25% economic interest by the Group, following the disposal of the 50% economic interest in the entity previously held by Mubadala Petroleum Mubadala.
Nama Development Enterprises has acquired the remaining 25% economic interest.
Mubadala ceded control of PE to the Group with effect from 1 January 2013, including the exercise of their voting rights to enable the Group to exercise control over PE.
The fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities of PE on 1 January 2013 are analysed below: Recognised on Carrying acquisition value US$m US$m Property, plant and equipment 15 15 Trade and other receivables 258 258 Cash and short-term deposits 58 58 331 331 Less: Trade and other payables 269 269 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 39 39 Accrued contract expenses 1 1 309 309 Fair value of net assets acquired 22 Non-controlling interest arising on acquisition 5 Acquisition date fair value of initial 50% interest note 13 11 Goodwill arising on acquisition 29 Consideration for 25% interest acquired on 1 January 2013 35 Cash inflow on acquisition: Cash paid on acquisition 35 Cash acquired with subsidiary 58 Net cash inflow on the acquisition of subsidiary 23 The residual goodwill above comprises the fair value of expected future synergies and business opportunities arising from the integration of the business into the Group.
RNZ Integrated M Sdn Bhd RNZ During 2011, the Group entered into a collaboration agreement with the owners of RNZ, whereby, it was agreed that when certain conditions had been fulfilled, three out of five members of the management committee of RNZ would be Petrofac representatives and the actions of the management committee would be decided by a simple majority.
The conditions were fulfilled and the membership changes of the management committee took place on 1 April 2013, being the date from which the Group has the power to control the relevant activities of RNZ.
RNZ has been consolidated 100% in the Group results since 1 April 2013.
If the above combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, profit of RNZ would have been US$2m and revenue would have been US$44m.
The Group has an agreement with owners of RNZ that the profits of the company will not be distributed until it obtains the consent of the Group.
141 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11 Goodwill A summary of the movements in goodwill is presented below: 2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 January 125 107 Acquisitions during the year 32 15 Re-assessment of contingent consideration payable 4 1 Exchange difference 2 4 At 31 December 155 125 Acquisitions during the year comprise the goodwill recognised on the acquisition of an additional 25% interest in Petrofac Emirates LLC of US$29m and RNZ of US$3m.
Acquisitions during 2012 comprised the goodwill recognised on acquisition of KW Limited of US$14m and H&L SPD Americas S fide R. L of US$1m.
Re-assessment of contingent consideration payable comprises a decrease in contingent consideration payable on Caltec Limited of US$4m 2012: US$1m.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to four groups of cash-generating units, for impairment testing as follows: Onshore Engineering & Construction Offshore Projects & Operations Engineering & Consulting Services Integrated Energy Services These represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The Group considers cash-generating units to be individually significant where they represent greater than 25% of the total goodwill balance.
Onshore Engineering & Construction, Offshore Projects & Operations, Engineering & Consulting Services and Integrated Energy Services cash-generating units Recoverable amounts have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted pre-tax cash flow projections.
Management have adopted projection periods appropriate to each units value in use.
For Onshore Engineering & Construction, Offshore Projects & Operations and Engineering & Consulting Services cash-generating units the cash flow projections are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five-year period, extrapolated at a growth rate of 2.5%.
For the Integrated Energy Services business the cash flows are based on economic models over the length of the contracted period for Production Enhancement Contracts, Equity upstream investments and Risk Service Contracts.
For other operations included in Integrated Energy Services, cash flows are based on financial budgets approved by senior management covering a five-year period, extrapolated at a growth rate of 2.5%.
The carrying amount of goodwill for the Onshore Engineering & Construction, Offshore Projects & Operations and Engineering & Consulting Services cash-generating units are not individually significant in comparison with the total carrying amount of goodwill and therefore no analysis of sensitivities has been provided below.
142 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each group of cash-generating units 2013 2012 US$m US$m Onshore Engineering & Construction unit 29 Offshore Projects & Operations unit 30 29 Engineering & Consulting Services unit 26 23 Integrated Energy Services unit 70 73 155 125 Key assumptions used in value in use calculations for the Integrated Energy Services unit The following key assumptions were included in the value in use calculations used to estimate the recoverable amount of the Integrated Energy Services cash-generating unit.
Where management has identified a reasonably possible change in any of these assumptions that would result in impairment, details have been provided below: Market share: for the Training business which is within Integrated Energy Services, the key assumptions relate to managements assessment of maintaining the units market share in the UK and developing further the business in international markets.
Capital expenditure: the Production Enhancement Contracts in the Integrated Energy Services unit require a minimum level of capital spend on the projects in the initial years to meet contractual commitments.
If the capital is not spent, a cash payment of the balance is required which does not qualify for cost recovery.
The level of capital spend assumed in the value in use calculation is that expected over the period of the budget based on the current field development plans which assumes the minimum spend is met on each project and the contracts remain in force for the entire duration of the project.
For other equity upstream investments, the level of capital spend assumed is based on sanctioned field development plans and represents the activities required to access commercial reserves.
A 10% increase in capital expenditure, representing a total overspend of US$300m undiscounted, across the portfolio of Integrated Energy Services projects would result in an impairment charge of US$43m.
Reserve volumes and production profiles: management has used its internally developed economic models of reserves and production profiles as inputs in to the value in use for the Production Enhancement Contracts, Risk Service Contracts and Equity Upstream Investments.
These economic models are revised annually as part of the preparation of the groups five year business plans which are approved by the Board.
Management has used an oil price of US$100 per barrel 2012: US$100 per barrel to determine reserve volumes.
A 10% decrease in forecast production across the portfolio of Integrated Energy Services projects would result in an impairment charge equal to the carrying value of goodwill of US$70m and a 10% reduction in the oil price would result in an impairment charge of US$23m.
Growth rate: estimates are based on managements assessment of market share having regard to macro-economic factors and the growth rates experienced in the recent past in the markets in which the unit operates.
A growth rate of 2.5% per annum has been applied for businesses within the Integrated Energy Services cash-generating unit where the cash flows are not based on long term contractual arrangements.
Discount rate: management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 10.4% per annum 2012: 13.2% per annum.
The discount rate is derived from the estimated weighted average cost of capital WACC of the Group and has been calculated using an estimated risk free rate of return adjusted for the Groups estimated equity market risk premium.
There has been a significant reduction in the Groups WACC during 2013, principally due to a major change in the macro-economic outlook compared with the previous year which has resulted in a shift in the market risk premium used in the calculation of the Group WACC.
Furthermore, the introduction of leverage in to the Groups consolidated statement of financial position has also reduced the Group WACC due to the cost of debt being much lower than the cost of equity.
A 100 basis point increase in the pre-tax discount rate to 11.4% would result in an impairment charge of US$63m.
143 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12 Intangible assets 2013 2012 US$m US$m Intangible oil and gas assets Cost: At 1 January 268 103 Additions 43 165 Transfer to oil and gas assets note 9 21 Net book value of intangible oil and gas assets at 31 December 290 268 Other intangible assets Cost: At 1 January 54 30 Additions on acquisition 6 Transfer from other non-current financial assets 10 Additions 10 7 Write off 4 Exchange difference 1 At 31 December 60 54 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 15 11 Amortisation 5 4 At 31 December 20 15 Net book value of other intangible assets at 31 December 40 39 Total intangible assets 330 307 Intangible oil and gas assets Oil and gas assets part of the Integrated Energy Services segment additions above comprise largely US$40m 2012: US$149m of capitalised expenditure on the Groups assets in Malaysia.
There were investing cash outflows relating to capitalised intangible oil and gas assets of US$43m 2012: US$165m in the current period arising from pre-development activities.
Transfers within intangible oil and gas assets represent transfers to oil and gas assets relating to block PM304 in Malaysia note 9.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets comprising project development expenditure, customer contracts, proprietary software and patent technology are being amortised over their estimated economic useful life on a straight-line basis and the related amortisation charges included in selling, general and administration expenses note 4c.
US$4m relating to LNG intellectual property was written off during the year.
144 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 13 Investments in associates joint ventures Joint Associates ventures Total US$m US$m US$m As at 1 January 2012 164 21 185 Additional investment in Seven Energy International Limited 25 25 Transfer from subsidiary to investment in associate Petrofac FPF1 Limited 9 9 Transfer of a long-term receivable from a related party Petrofac FPF1 Limited 13 13 Share of losses profits 8 2 6 Impairment of investment in Gateway Storage Company Limited 14 14 Dividends received 2 2 As at 31 December 2012 restated 189 21 210 Investment in Petrofac FPF1 Limited 4 4 Share of profits 17 5 22 Transferred to investment in subsidiary note 10 11 11 Dividends received 10 10 As at 31 December 2013 210 5 215 Dividends received include US$8m received from Petrofac Emirates LLC and US$2m received from TTE Petrofac Limited 2012: US$2m received from TTE Petrofac Limited.
Associates 2013 2012 US$m US$m Associates acquired through acquisition of subsidiary 1 1 Petrofac FPF1 Limited 25 21 Investment in Seven Energy International Limited 184 167 210 189 Seven Energy International Limited On 25 November 2010, the Group invested US$100m for 15.0% 12.6% on a fully diluted basis of the share capital of Seven Energy International Limited Seven Energy, a leading Nigerian gas development and production company incurring US$1m of transaction costs.
This investment which was previously held under available-for-sale financial assets was transferred to investments in associates, pursuant to an investment on 10 June 2011 of US$50m for an additional 4.6% of the share capital of Seven Energy which resulted in the Group being in a position to exercise significant influence over Seven Energy.
On 30 October 2012, the Group invested US$25m for an additional 2.4% of the share capital of Seven Energy.
The additional US$25m investment was made as part of a discounted rights issue required to deal with a short-term funding requirement by Seven Energy at a subscription price of US$150 per share and in light of this the carrying value of the investment has been tested for impairment and no impairment provision is required.
No negative goodwill has been accounted for on the rights issue as the range of possible outcomes was immaterial.
The Group also has the option to subscribe for 148,571 of additional warrants in Seven Energy at a cost of a further US$52m, subject to the performance of certain service provision conditions and milestones in relation to project execution.
These warrants have been fair valued at 31 December 2013 as derivative financial instruments under IAS 39, using a Black Scholes model, amounting to US$11m 2012: US$12m.
US$1m 2012: US$6m other expense has been recognised as other expense in the current period income statement as a result of the revaluation of these derivatives at 31 December 2013 note 4g.
During 2012 deferred revenue recognised in trade and other payables of US$10m was released in full to the consolidated income statement as 100% of the performance conditions required to subscribe for the remaining warrants in the Company were satisfied.
The share of the associates statement of financial position is as follows: 2013 2012 US$m US$m Non-current assets 1,140 740 Current assets 220 100 Non-current liabilities 284 254 Current liabilities 682 268 Equity 394 318 Groups share of net assets 87 70 Transaction costs incurred 2 2 Residual goodwill 95 95 Carrying value of investment 184 167 Share of associates revenues and net profit loss : Revenue 76 23 Net profit loss 17 8 145 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13 Investments in associates joint ventures continued Joint ventures 2013 2012 US$m US$m Petrofac Emirates LLC 19 Spie Capag Petrofac International Limited 1 1 China Petroleum Petrofac Engineering Services Cooperatif U.
2 TTE Petrofac Limited 2 1 5 21 Transition to IFRS 11 Under IAS 31 Investment in Joint Ventures prior to the transition to IFRS 11, the Groups interest in Petrofac Emirates LLC, TTE Petrofac Limited, Professional Mechanical Repair Services Company, Spie Capag Petrofac International Limited and China Petroleum Petrofac Engineering Services Cooperatif U.
A. were classified as jointly controlled entities and the Groups share of the assets, liabilities, revenue, income and expenses were proportionately consolidated in the consolidated financial statements.
Upon adoption of IFRS 11, the Group has determined its interest in these entities to be joint ventures and they are required to be accounted for using the equity method.
The effect of applying IFRS 11 is as follows: Impact on the consolidated income statement 2012 US$m Decrease in the reported revenue 84 Decrease in the cost of sales 80 Decrease in gross profit 4 Decrease in selling, general and administration expenses 2 Decrease in operating profit 2 Increase in share of profits of joint ventures 2 Net impact on profit after tax Impact on the consolidated statement of financial position 2012 US$m Increase in net investment in joint venture non-current 21 Decrease in non-current assets 8 Decrease in current assets 101 Decrease in current liabilities 88 Net impact on equity Impact on the consolidated statement of cash flows 2012 US$m Decrease in net cash flows from operating activities 34 Increase in net cash flows used in investing activities 2 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 32 146 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Interest in joint ventures 1 Summarised financial information of the joint ventures, based on its IFRS financial statements, and reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in consolidated financial statements are set out below: 2013 2012 US$m US$m Restated Revenue 38 168 Cost of sales 25 160 Gross profit 13 8 Selling, general and administration expenses 2 4 Finance expense income, net Profit before income tax 11 4 Income tax 1 Profit 10 4 Groups share of profit for the year 5 2 Current assets 12 202 Non-current assets 2 16 Total assets 14 218 Current liabilities 2 176 Non-current liabilities 2 Total liabilities 4 176 Net assets 10 42 Groups share of net assets 5 21 Carrying amount of the investment 5 21 1 A list of these joint ventures is disclosed in note 30.
The joint ventures had no contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 December 2013 and 2012.
The joint ventures cannot distribute their profits until they obtain consent from the venturers.
147 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14 Other financial assets and other financial liabilities 2013 2012 Other financial assets US$m US$m Non-current Long-term receivables from customers 394 437 Receivable from a joint venture partner 127 Fair value of derivative instruments note 29 5 Restricted cash 1 7 527 444 Current Short-term component of receivable from customers 282 67 Seven Energy warrants note 13 11 12 Fair value of derivative instruments note 29 23 2 Restricted cash 4 4 320 85 Other financial liabilities Non-current Contingent consideration payable 1 1 Interest rate swaps note 29 1 Finance lease creditors note 27 6 Fair value of derivative instruments note 29 1 2 8 Current Contingent consideration payable 1 7 Fair value of derivative instruments note 29 14 3 Finance lease creditors note 27 15 7 Interest rate swaps note 29 1 Interest payable 6 37 17 The long-term receivables from customers relate to the discounted value of amounts due under the Berantai RSC, which are being recovered over a six year period from 2013 in line with the contractual terms of the project.
The 2012 balance also includes amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area.
The short-term component of receivable from customers relate to the amounts due under the Berantai RSC and to amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area.
Restricted cash comprises deposits with financial institutions securing various guarantees and performance bonds associated with the Groups trading activities note 27.
This cash will be released on the maturity of these guarantees and performance bonds.
148 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 15 Fair Value Measurement The following financial instruments are measured at fair value using the hierarchy below for determination and disclosure of their respective fair values: Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities Level 2: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on significant observable factors Level 3: Other valuation techniques where the inputs are based on significant unobservable market data Year ended 31 December 2013 Level 2 Level 3 Date of valuation US$m US$m Financial assets Seven Energy warrants 31 December 2013 11 Receivable under the Berantai RSC 31 December 2013 476 Amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area 31 December 2013 200 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 31 December 2013 24 GBP forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 31 December 2013 4 Assets for which fair values are disclosed note 29 : Cash and short-term deposits 31 December 2013 617 Restricted cash 31 December 2013 5 Financial liabilities Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 31 December 2013 2 Sterling forward currency contracts undesignated 31 December 2013 11 Interest rate swaps 31 December 2013 2 Oil derivative 31 December 2013 1 Liabilities for which fair values are disclosed note 29 : Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Senior notes 31 December 2013 750 Revolving credit facility 31 December 2013 444 Project financing 31 December 2013 138 Bank overdrafts 31 December 2013 32 Contingent consideration 31 December 2013 2 Year ended 31 December 2012 Level 2 Level 3 Date of valuation US$m US$m Financial assets Seven Energy warrants 31 December 2012 12 Receivable under the Berantai RSC 31 December 2012 389 Amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area 31 December 2012 115 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 31 December 2012 1 Euro forward currency contracts undesignated 31 December 2012 1 Financial liabilities Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 31 December 2012 1 Euro forward currency contracts undesignated 31 December 2012 1 Sterling forward currency contracts undesignated 31 December 2012 2 149 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16 Inventories 2013 2012 US$m US$m Crude oil 4 3 Stores and spares 12 23 Raw materials 1 16 27 Included in the consolidated income statement are costs of inventories expensed of US$43m 2012: US$18m.
17 Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 2013 2012 US$m US$m Restated Cost and estimated earnings 14,244 10,619 Less: billings 12,771 9,963 Work in progress 1,473 656 Billings 5,690 5,356 Less: cost and estimated earnings 5,436 5,049 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 254 307 Total cost and estimated earnings 19,680 15,668 Total billings 18,461 15,319 18 Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 US$m US$m Restated Trade receivables 1,294 1,212 Retentions receivable 254 170 Advances 216 110 Prepayments and deposits 70 32 Receivables from joint venture partners 314 268 Other receivables 212 54 2,360 1,846 Other receivables mainly consist of Value Added Tax recoverable of US$130m 2012: US$46m, US$76m being unbilled accruals on Santuario and Magallanes PECs and the balance being miscellaneous non-trading receivables.
150 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally on 30 to 60 days terms.
Trade receivables are reported net of provision for impairment.
The movements in the provision for impairment against trade receivables totalling US$1,299m 2012: US$1,215m are as follows: 2013 2012 Specific General Specific General impairment impairment Total impairment impairment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 213 21 3 Charge for the year 2 2 2 2 Amounts written off 2 2 At 31 December 415 21 3 At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Number of days past due Neither past due nor 30 3160 6190 91120 121360 360 impaired days days days days days days Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Unimpaired 532 586 91 23 8 31 6 1,277 Impaired 7 6 9 22 532 586 91 23 15 37 15 1,299 Less: impairment provision 1 1 3 5 Net trade receivables 2013 532 586 91 23 14 36 12 1,294 Unimpaired restated 838 237 58 21 5 24 10 1,193 Impaired 13 5 4 22 838 237 58 21 18 29 14 1,215 Less: impairment provision 1 1 1 3 Net trade receivables 2012 restated 838 237 58 21 17 28 13 1,212 The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is assessed by management with reference to externally prepared customer credit reports and the historic payment track records of the counterparties.
Advances represent payments made to certain of the Groups subcontractors for projects in progress, on which the related work had not been performed at the statement of financial position date.
Receivables from joint venture partners are amounts recoverable from venture partners on the FPSO Berantai, Block PM304 and Petrofac Emirates on an engineering, procurement and construction project.
All trade and other receivables are expected to be settled in cash.
Certain trade and other receivables will be settled in cash using currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, and will be largely paid in sterling and euros.
19 Cash and short-term deposits 2013 2012 US$m US$m Restated Cash at bank and in hand 506 366 Short-term deposits 111 216 Total cash and bank balances 617 582 Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and bank balances is US$617m 2012: US$582m.
For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: 2013 2012 US$m US$m Restated Cash at bank and in hand 506 366 Short-term deposits 111 216 Bank overdrafts note 24 32 57 585 525 151 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20 Share capital The share capital of the Company as at 31 December was as follows: 2013 2012 US$m US$m Authorised 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2012: 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 15 15 Issued and fully paid 345,912,747 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2012: 345,891,490 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 7 7 The movement in the number of issued and fully paid ordinary shares is as follows: Number Ordinary shares: Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 1 January 2012 345,821,729 Issued during the year as further contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of a subsidiary 69,761 Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 1 January 2013 345,891,490 Issued during the year as further contingent consideration payable for the acquisition of a subsidiary 21,257 Ordinary shares of US$0.020 each at 31 December 2013 345,912,747 The share capital comprises only one class of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares carry a voting right and the right to a dividend.
Share premium: The balance on the share premium account represents the amount received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve: The balance on the capital redemption reserve represents the aggregated nominal value of the ordinary shares repurchased and cancelled.
21 Treasury shares For the purpose of making awards under its employee share schemes, the Company acquires its own shares which are held by the Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture Companies Employee Benefit Trust.
All these shares have been classified in the statement of financial position as treasury shares within equity.
The movements in total treasury shares are shown below: 2013 2012 Number US$m Number US$m At 1 January 5,466,213 100 5,736,017 75 Acquired during the year 2,300,000 47 3,000,000 76 Vested during the year 2,093,522 37 3,269,804 51 At 31 December 5,672,691 110 5,466,213 100 Shares vested during the year include dividend shares and 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger of 153,408 shares 2012: 375,040 shares.
22 Share-based payment plans Performance Share Plan PSP Under the Performance Share Plan of the Company, share awards are granted to Executive Directors and a restricted number of other senior executives of the Group.
The shares vest at the end of three years subject to continued employment and the achievement of certain pre-defined market and non-market-based performance conditions.
The 50% market performance based part of these awards is dependent on the total shareholder return TSR of the Group compared with an index composed of selected relevant companies.
The fair value of the shares vesting under this portion of the award is determined by an independent valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the terms and conditions of the plan rules and using the following assumptions at the date of grant: 22 Mar 2013 18 Apr 2013 24 May 2013 2012 2011 2010 awards awards awards awards awards awards Expected share price volatility based on median of comparator Groups three-year volatilities 34.6% 34.7% 33.9% 38.0% 51.0% 50.0% Share price correlation with comparator Group 44.0% 44.3% 42.0% 46.0% 43.0% 39.0% Risk-free interest rate 0.4% 0.4% 0.5% 0.4% 1.7% 1.5% Expected life of share award 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair value of TSR portion 692p 492p 571p 1,103p 788p 743p 152 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 The non-market-based condition governing the vesting of the remaining 50% of the total award is subject to achieving between 10% and 20% earnings per share EPS growth targets over a three-year period.
The fair values of the equity-settled award relating to the EPS part of the scheme are estimated, based on the quoted closing market price per Company share at the date of grant with an assumed vesting rate per annum built into the calculation subsequently trued up at year end based on the actual leaver rate during the period from award date to year end over the three-year vesting period of the plan.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Under the DBSP selected employees are required to defer a proportion of their annual cash bonus into Company shares Invested Award.
Following such an award, the Company will generally grant the participant an additional award of a number of shares bearing a specified ratio to the number of his or her invested shares Matching Shares, typically using a 1:1 ratio.
Subject to a participants continued employment, invested and matching share awards may either vest 100% on the third anniversary of grant: or alternatively, vest one-third on the first anniversary of the grant, one-third on the second anniversary and the final proportion on the third anniversary.
At the year end the values of the bonuses settled by shares cannot be determined until the Remuneration Committee has approved the portion of the employee bonuses to be settled in shares.
Once the portion of the bonus to be settled in shares is determined, the final bonus liability to be settled in shares is transferred to the reserve for share-based payments.
The costs relating to the Matching Shares are recognised over the corresponding vesting period and the fair values of the equity-settled Matching Shares granted to employees are based on the quoted closing market price at the date of grant with the charge adjusted to reflect the expected vesting rate of the plan.
Share Incentive Plan SIP All UK employees, including UK Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the SIP.
Employees may invest up to sterling 1,500 per tax year of gross salary or, if lower, 10% of salary to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
There is no holding period for these shares.
Restricted Share Plan RSP Under the RSP, selected employees are made grants of shares on an ad hoc basis.
The RSP is used primarily, but not exclusively, to make awards to individuals who join the Group part way through the year, having left accrued benefits with a previous employer.
The fair values of the awards granted under the RSP at various grant dates during the year are based on the quoted market price at the date of grant adjusted for an assumed vesting rate over the relevant vesting period.
Value Creation Plan VCP During 2012 the Company introduced a new one-off Value Creation Plan VCP which is a share option scheme for Executive Directors and key senior executives within the Company.
VCP is a premium priced share option scheme with options granted with an exercise price set at a 10% premium to the grant date price.
Options will vest to the extent of satisfying Group and divisional profit after tax targets, together with various other performance underpins and risk malus provisions that can be imposed at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee of the Board.
The share options vest in equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the original grant date but may be exercised up to eight years from the date of grant.
The VCP share options were fair valued by an independent valuer using a Black-Scholes option pricing model taking into account the rules of the plan and using the following key assumptions: Tranche 1 Tranche 2 Tranche 3 Share price at the date of grant 1,555p 1,555p 1,555p Exercise price 1,710p 1,710p 1,710p Expected lives of the award 6 years 6.5 years 7 years Share price volatility 41% 41% 41% Share price dividend yield 2.3% 2.3% 2.3% Risk-free interest rates 1.1% 1.2% 1.3% Per share fair values 451p 467p 482p Share-based payment plans information The details of the fair values and assumed vesting rates of the share-based payment plans are below: PSP EPS portion DBSP RSP 22 Mar 18 Apr 24 May Fair value Assumed Fair value Assumed Fair value Assumed Fair value Assumed Fair value Assumed per share vesting rate per share vesting rate per share vesting rate per share vesting rate per share vesting rate 2013 awards 1,446p 3.1% 1,266p 3.1% 1,340p 3.1% 1,446p 91.4% 1,366p 96.7% 2012 awards 1,705p 0.0% 1,705p 85.5% 1,555p 87.4% 2011 awards 1,426p 16.6% 1,426p 87.9% 1,463p 67.3% 2010 awards 1,103p 93.8% 1,185p 88.9% 990p 83.1% 153 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22 Share-based payment plans continued The following table shows the movements in the number of shares held under the share-based payment plans outstanding but not exercisable: PSP DBSP RSP VCP Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 1,232,186 1,358,046 3,120,968 3,809,746 522,171 534,780 1,773,713 6,649,038 5,702,572 Granted during the year 499,221 409,212 1,948,702 1,507,614 204,722 227,726 1,773,713 2,652,645 3,918,265 Vested during the year 368,005 535,072 1,097,127 1,991,385 123,133 210,836 1,588,265 2,737,293 Forfeited during the year 47,532 264,237 205,007 64,886 29,499 72,563 449,218 234,506 Outstanding at 31 December 1,315,870 1,232,186 3,708,306 3,120,968 538,874 522,171 1,701,150 1,773,713 7,264,200 6,649,038 Includes Invested and Matching Shares Excludes shares which will be forfeited by Andy Inglis on leaving the company effective 28 February 2014, as explained in the Remuneration Report on page 109 The number of shares still outstanding but not exercisable at 31 December 2013, for each award is as follows: PSP DBSP RSP VCP Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number 2013 awards 488,879 1,794,234 201,635 2,484,748 2012 awards 385,312 409,212 1,251,020 1,421,132 198,424 222,056 1,701,150 1,773,713 3,535,906 3,826,113 2011 awards 441,679 454,969 663,052 1,049,174 108,453 138,135 1,213,184 1,642,278 2010 awards 368,005 650,662 30,362 161,980 30,362 1,180,647 Total awards 1,315,870 1,232,186 3,708,306 3,120,968 538,874 522,171 1,701,150 1,773,713 7,264,200 6,649,038 Includes Invested and Matching Shares.
The weighted average share price of the Company shares during 2013 was US$21.76 sterling equivalent of 13.90.
The number of outstanding shares excludes the 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger and dividend shares shown below: PSP DBSP RSP Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number EnQuest 8% uplift 318 52,037 916 4,542 1,234 56,579 Dividend shares 74,196 55,511 155,741 119,699 17,992 14,058 247,929 189,268 Outstanding at 31 December 74,196 55,511 156,059 171,736 18,908 18,600 249,163 245,847 Includes Invested and Matching Shares.
The charge in respect of share-based payment plans recognised in the consolidated income statement is as follows: PSP DBSP RSP VCP Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Share based payment charge credit 1 6 14 15 3 4 1 1 15 26 Represents charge on Matching Shares only.
The Group has recognised a total charge of US$15m 2012: US$26m in the consolidated income statement during the year relating to the above employee share-based schemes see note 4d which has been transferred to the reserve for share-based payments along with US$22m of the bonus liability accrued for the year ended 31 December 2012 which has been settled in shares granted during the year 2011 bonus of US$20m.
154 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 The reduction in the share based payments charge compared with the previous year is due to a significant decrease in the expected future vesting rates of the Performance Share Plans and the Value Creation Plan together with an increase in employee leaver rates within the Deferred Bonus Share Plans.
For further details on the above employee share-based payment schemes refer to pages 99, 106, 107 and 109 to 111 of the Directors remuneration report.
23 Other reserves Net unrealised Foreign Reserve for gains losses currency share-based on derivatives translation payments Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Balance at 1 January 2012 20 35 61 6 Foreign currency translation 10 10 Net losses on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 20 20 Share-based payments charge note 22 26 26 Transfer during the year note 22 20 20 Shares vested during the year 45 45 Deferred tax on share-based payments reserve 1 1 Balance at 1 January 2013 25 63 38 Foreign currency translation 4 4 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 1 1 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 29 29 Share-based payments charge note 22 15 15 Transfer during the year note 22 22 22 Shares vested during the year 34 34 Deferred tax on share-based payments reserve 2 2 Balance at 31 December 2013 28 29 64 63 Nature and purpose of other reserves Net unrealised gains losses on derivatives The portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be effective hedges is included within this reserve net of related deferred tax effects.
When the hedged transaction occurs or is no longer forecast to occur, the gain or loss is transferred out of equity to the consolidated income statement.
Realised net gains amounting to US$1m 2012: US$20m net loss relating to foreign currency forward contracts and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges have been recognised in cost of sales.
The forward currency points element and ineffective portion of derivative financial instruments relating to forward currency contracts and gains on un-designated derivatives amounting to US$nil 2012: US$2m loss have been recognised in the cost of sales.
Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements in foreign subsidiaries.
It is also used to record exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Groups net investment in subsidiaries.
Reserve for share-based payments The reserve for share-based payments is used to record the value of equity-settled share-based payments awarded to employees and transfers out of this reserve are made upon vesting of the original share awards.
The transfer during the year reflects the transfer from accrued expenses within trade and other payables of the bonus liability relating to the year ended 2012 of US$22m 2011 bonus of US$20m which has been voluntarily elected or mandatorily obliged to be settled in shares during the year note 22.
155 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The Group had the following interest-bearing loans and borrowings outstanding: 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Effective interest 2013 2012 Actual interest rate % Actual interest rate % rate % Maturity US$m US$m Current Bank overdrafts i UK LIBOR 1.50% UK LIBOR 1.50% UK LIBOR on demand 32 57 US LIBOR 1.50% US LIBOR 1.50% 1.50% US LIBOR 1.50% Other loans: Current portion of project iv US LIBOR 2.70% US LIBOR financing 2.70% 2014 21 53 57 Non-current Senior notes ii 3.40% 3.68% 5 years 750 Revolving credit facility RCF iii US LIBOR 1.50% US LIBOR 1.50% 4 years 444 303 Project financing iv US LIBOR 2.70% US LIBOR 2.70% 6 years 117 1,311 303 Less: Debt acquisition costs net of accumulated amortisation and effective interest rate adjustments 17 11 Discount on senior notes issuance 3 1,291 292 Details of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings are as follows: i Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are drawn down in US dollars and sterling denominations to meet the Groups working capital requirements.
These are repayable on demand.
ii Senior notes On 10 October 2013, Petrofac issued an aggregate principal amount of US$750m 5 year Senior Notes Notes at an issue price of 99.627%.
The Group will pay interest on the Notes at an annual rate equal to 3.40% of the outstanding principal amount.
Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in April and October of each year, commencing in April 2014.
The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with the Companys other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
Petrofac International Ltd and Petrofac International UAE LLC irrevocably and unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, the due and prompt payment of all amounts at any time becoming due and payable in respect of the Notes.
The Guarantees are senior unsecured obligations of each Guarantor and will rank equally in right of payment with all existing and future senior unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of each Guarantor.
iii Revolving Credit Facility On 11 September 2012, Petrofac entered into a US$1,200m 5 year committed revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 13 international banks, which is available for general corporate purposes.
The facility, which matures on 11 September 2017, is unsecured and is subject to two financial covenants relating to leverage and interest cover.
Petrofac was in compliance with these covenants for the year ending 31 December 2013.
As at 31 December 2013, US$444m was drawn under this facility 2012: US$303m.
Interest is payable on the drawn balance of the facility at LIBOR 1.5% and in addition utilisation fees are payable depending on the level of utilisation.
iv Project financing In May 2013, Berantai Floating Production Limited entered into a US$300m Groups 51% share US$153m senior secured term loan facility with a syndicate of 4 banks to refinance the cost of obtaining and developing the Berantai FPSO.
The loan, which was advanced in full in May 2013, is being amortised on a quarterly basis and has a final maturity date of October 2019.
The facility contains a Debt Service Coverage Ratio financial covenant of not less than 1.15:1.
Interest on the loan is calculated at LIBOR plus a margin of 2.70%.
Underlying LIBOR has been hedged at 1.675% for the duration of the loan note 29.
Fees relating to the Groups financing arrangements have been capitalised and are being amortised over the term of the respective borrowings.
None of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to any material restrictions on their ability to transfer funds in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances to the Company.
156 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 25 Provisions Other long-term employment benefits Provision for Other provision decommissioning provisions Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2013 63 33 4 100 Additions during the year 20 100 2 122 Paid in the year 13 13 Unwinding of discount 1 3 4 At 31 December 2013 71 136 6 213 Other long-term employment benefits provision Labour laws in the United Arab Emirates require employers to provide for other long-term employment benefits.
These benefits are payable to employees on being transferred to another jurisdiction or on cessation of employment based on their final salary and number of years service.
The long-term employment benefits provision is based on an internally produced end of service benefits valuation model with the key underlying assumptions being as follows: Senior Other employees employees Average number of years of future service 5 3 Average annual % salary increases 6% 4% Discount factor 5% 5% Senior employees are those earning a base of salary of over US$96,000 per annum.
Discount factor used is the local Dubai five-year Sukuk rate.
Provision for decommissioning The decommissioning provision primarily relates to the Groups obligation for the removal of facilities and restoration of the sites at the PM304 field in Malaysia, Chergui in Tunisia and Santuario, Magallanes, Arenque and Panuco Production Enhancement Contracts in Mexico.
For additions during the year refer to note 9.
The liability is discounted at the rate of 4.16% on PM304 2012: 4.16%, 5.25% on Chergui 2012: 5.25% and 5.86% on Santuario, Magallanes, Arenque and Panuco Production Enhancement Contracts 2012: 5.38%.
The unwinding of the discount is classified as finance cost note 5.
The Group estimates that the cash outflows against these provisions will arise in 2026 on PM304, 2018 on Chergui, 2033 on Santuario and Magallanes, 2038 on Arenque and 2030 on Panuco Production Enhancement Contracts.
Other provisions This represents amounts set aside to cover claims against the Group which will be settled via the captive insurance company Jermyn Insurance Company Limited.
26 Trade and other payables 2012 2013 US$m US$m Restated Trade payables 927 830 Advances received from customers 444 367 Accrued expenses 684 576 Other taxes payable 44 40 Other payables 197 105 2,296 1,918 Advances received from customers represent payments received for contracts on which the related work had not been performed at the statement of financial position date.
Other payables mainly consist of retentions held against subcontractors of US$73m 2012: US$86m and payable to joint venture partners of US$50m 2012: US$nil.
Certain trade and other payables will be settled in currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, mainly in sterling, euros and Kuwaiti dinars.
157 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27 Commitments and contingencies Commitments In the normal course of business the Group will obtain surety bonds, letters of credit and guarantees, which are contractually required to secure performance, advance payment or in lieu of retentions being withheld.
Some of these facilities are secured by issue of corporate guarantees by the Company in favour of the issuing banks.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had letters of credit of US$29m 2012: US$nil and outstanding letters of guarantee, including performance, advance payments and bid bonds of US$3,602m 2012: US$2,296m against which the Group had pledged or restricted cash balances of, in aggregate, US$5m 2012: US$11m.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had outstanding forward exchange contracts amounting to US$1,273m 2012: US$228m.
These commitments consist of future obligations either to acquire or to sell designated amounts of foreign currency at agreed rates and value dates note 29.
Leases The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for office space and equipment.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining non-cancellable lease terms of between one and 17 years and, for certain property leases, are subject to renegotiation at various intervals as specified in the lease agreements.
The future minimum rental commitments under these non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2013 2012 US$m US$m Within one year 33 25 After one year but not more than five years 73 108 More than five years 89 198 195 331 Included in the above are commitments relating to the leasing of a Mobile Operating Production Unit for the Cendor Phase 1 project of US$5m 2012: US$149m and the lease of office buildings in Aberdeen, United Kingdom of US$120m 2012: US$127m.
Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense during the year amounted to US$44m 2012: US$37m.
Long-term finance lease commitments are as follows: Future minimum lease Present payments Finance cost value US$m US$m US$m Land, buildings and leasehold improvements The commitments are as follows: Within one year 16 1 15 After one year but not more than five years More than five years 16 1 15 Capital commitments At 31 December 2013, the Group had capital commitments of US$942m 2012: US$493m excluding the above lease commitments.
Included in the US$942m of commitments are: 2013 2012 US$m US$m Building of the Petrofac JSD6000 installation vessel 489 Production Enhancement Contracts in Mexico 390 146 Further appraisal and development of wells as part of Block PM304 in Malaysia 20 287 Costs in respect of Ithaca Greater Stella Field development in the North Sea 41 50 Commitments in respect of the construction of a new office building in United Arab Emirates 5 158 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 28 Related party transactions The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Petrofac Limited and the subsidiaries listed in note 30.
Petrofac Limited is the ultimate parent entity of the Group.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties: Purchases Amounts Amounts Sales to from owed owed related related by related to related parties parties parties parties US$m US$m US$m US$m Joint ventures 2013 1 7 5 3 2012 restated 1701355 34 Associates 2013 2012 restated 35 Key management personnel interests 2013 2012 2 All sales to and purchases from joint ventures are made at normal market prices and the pricing policies and terms of these transactions are approved by the Groups management.
All related party balances will be settled in cash.
Purchases in respect of key management personnel interests of US$264,000 2012: US$1,521,000 reflect the costs of chartering the services of an aeroplane used for the transport of senior management and Directors of the Group on company business, which is owned by an offshore trust of which the Group Chief Executive of the Company is a beneficiary.
The charter rates charged for Group usage of the aeroplane are significantly less than comparable market rates.
Also include in purchases in respect of key management personnel interests is US$138,000 2012: US$189,000 relating to client entertainment provided by a business owned by a member of the Groups key management.
For details of the rights issue by Seven Energy and the warrants held see note 13 to the financial statements.
Compensation of key management personnel The following details remuneration of key management personnel of the Group comprising Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company and other senior personnel.
Further information relating to the individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 92 to 113.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Short-term employee benefits 17 21 Share-based payments 8 Fees paid to Non-executive Directors 1 1 18 30 159 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Risk management and financial instruments Risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise available-for-sale financial assets, trade and other receivables, amounts due from to related parties, cash and short-term deposits, work-in-progress, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables and contingent consideration.
The Groups activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with interest rate risk on its variable rate cash and short-term deposits, loans and borrowings and foreign currency risk on both conducting business in currencies other than reporting currency as well as translation of the assets and liabilities of foreign operations to the reporting currency.
These risks are managed from time to time by using a combination of various derivative instruments, principally forward currency contracts in line with the Groups hedging policies.
The Group has a policy not to enter into speculative trading of financial derivatives.
The Board of Directors of the Company has established an Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee to help identify, evaluate and manage the significant financial risks faced by the Group and their activities are discussed in detail on pages 82 to 91.
The other main risks besides interest rate and foreign currency risk arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity price risk and the policies relating to these risks are discussed in detail below: Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect the value of the Groups interest-bearing financial liabilities and assets.
The Groups exposure to market risk arising from changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term variable rate debt obligations and its cash and bank balances.
The Groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
The Groups cash and bank balances are at floating rates of interest.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on loans and borrowings at the reporting date is demonstrated in the table below.
The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Pre-tax profit Equity 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis point point point point increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2013 5 5 31 December 2012 2 2 The following table reflects the maturity profile of these financial liabilities and assets: Year ended 31 December 2013 Within 12 23 34 45 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Floating rates Bank overdrafts note 24 32 32 Term loans note 24 21 22 23 467 24 25 582 53 22 23 467 24 25 614 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 19 617 617 Restricted cash balances note 14 4 1 5 621 1 622 Interest rate swaps At 31 December 2013, the Group had interest rate swap agreements in place for its project financing with a notional principle equivalent to US$153m whereby it pays a fixed rate of interest of 1.675% and receives a variable rate equal to 3 month US LIBOR on the notional amount.
The fair value of the interest rate swap at 31 December 2013 is a liability of US$2m 2012: US$nil and is being used to hedge the exposure to changes in US LIBOR rates.
160 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012 restated Within 12 23 34 45 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Floating rates Bank overdrafts note 24 57 57 Term loans note 24 303 303 57 303 360 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 19 582 582 Restricted cash balances note 14 4 7 11 586 7 593 Financial liabilities in the above table are disclosed gross of debt acquisition costs, effective interest rate adjustments and discount on senior notes of US$20m 2012: US$11m.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than the functional currency of its operating units.
The Group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to the US dollar reporting currency of the Group.
The following table summarises the percentage of foreign currency denominated revenues, costs, financial assets and financial liabilities, expressed in US dollar terms, of the Group totals.
2013 2012 % of foreign % of foreign currency currency denominated denominated items items Revenues 32.4% 34.5% Costs 45.0% 54.7% Current financial assets 33.1% 37.8% Non-current financial assets 1.0% 0.0% Current financial liabilities 22.2% 33.9% Non-current financial liabilities 0.0% 2.7% The Group uses forward currency contracts to manage the currency exposure on transactions significant to its operations.
It is the Groups policy not to enter into forward contracts until a highly probable forecast transaction is in place and to negotiate the terms of the derivative instruments used for hedging to match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge effectiveness.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The income statements of foreign operations are translated into the reporting currency using a weighted average exchange rate of conversion.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate at the reporting date.
Revenues and costs in currencies other than the functional currency of an operating unit are recorded at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year in relation to US dollars: 2013 2012 Average Closing Average Closing rate rate rate rate Sterling 1.57 1.66 1.59 1.63 Kuwaiti dinar 3.52 3.54 3.57 3.55 Euro 1.33 1.37 1.29 1.32 The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to change in the fair value of monetary assets, liabilities and derivative instruments of a reasonably possible change in US dollar exchange rates with respect to different currencies: Pre-tax profit Equity 10% US 10% US 10% US 10% US dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2013 34 34 66 66 31 December 2012 10 10 19 19 161 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Risk management and financial instruments continued Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges At 31 December, the Group had foreign exchange forward contracts as follows: Contract value Fair value undesignated Fair value designated Net unrealised gain loss 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Euro purchases 561 67 22 26 Sterling purchases sales 349 103 11 2 4 4 Yen sales 3 4 11 2 26 30 The above foreign exchange contracts mature and will affect income between January 2014 and November 2015 2012: between January 2013 and July 2014.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had cash and short-term deposits designated as cash flow hedges with net unrealised gains of US$1m 2012: US$nil as follows: Fair value Net unrealised gain loss 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m Euro cash and short-term deposits 32 118 1 Sterling cash and short-term deposits 7 Yen cash and short-term deposits 1 1 During 2013, changes in fair value gains of US$32m 2012: gains US$2m relating to these derivative instruments and financial assets were taken to equity and gains of US$1m 2012: US$18m losses were recycled from equity into cost of sales in the income statement.
The forward points and ineffective portions of the above foreign exchange forward contracts and loss on un-designated derivatives of US$nil 2012: US$2m loss were recognised in the income statement note 4b.
Commodity price risk oil prices The Group is exposed to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices on its revenues and profits generated from sales of crude oil and gas.
The Groups policy is to manage its exposure to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices using derivative instruments, primarily swaps and collars.
Hedging is only undertaken once sufficiently reliable and regular long-term forecast production data is available.
During the year the Group entered into various crude oil swaps and zero cost collars hedging oil production of 323,657 barrels bbl 2012: 1,000,000 bbl with maturities ranging from January 2014 to December 2014.
In addition, fuel oil swaps were also entered into for hedging gas production of 35,147 metric tonnes MT 2012: 31,743MT with maturities from January 2014 to December 2014.
The fair value of oil derivatives at 31 December 2013 was a liability of US$1m 2012: US$nil with net unrealised losses deferred in equity of US$1m 2012: US$nil.
During the year, US$nil 2012: US$2m loss was recycled from equity into the consolidated income statement on the occurrence of the hedged transactions and a loss in the fair value recognised in equity of US$1m 2012: US$2m loss.
The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a change in the fair value of oil derivative instruments and the underlifting asset overlifting liability of a reasonably possible change in the oil price: Pre-tax profit Equity 10 10 10 10 US$ bbl US$ bbl US$ bbl US$ bbl increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2013 1 1 3 3 31 December 2012 12 12 Credit risk The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
Business Unit Risk Review Committees BURRC evaluates the creditworthiness of each individual third-party at the time of entering into new contracts.
Limits have been placed on the approval authority of the BURRC above which the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company is required.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with appropriate follow-up action taken where necessary.
At 31 December 2013, the Groups five largest customers accounted for 49.3% of outstanding trade receivables and work in progress 2012: 48.8%.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, available-for-sale financial assets and certain derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
162 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Liquidity risk The Groups primary objective is to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to support future growth.
Our strategy includes the provision of financial capital and the potential impact on the Groups capital structure is reviewed regularly.
The Group is not exposed to any external capital constraints.
The maturity profiles of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December are as follows: Year ended 31 December 2013 Contractual 6 months 612 12 25 More than undiscounted Carrying or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 42 11 22 1,264 25 1,364 1,344 Finance lease creditors 10 6 16 15 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers and other taxes payable 1,760 48 1,808 1,808 Due to related parties 3 3 3 Contingent consideration 1 1 2 2 Derivative instruments 13 1 14 14 Interest payments 20 19 38 101 1 179 1,848 86 61 1,365 26 3,386 3,186 Year ended 31 December 2012 restated Contractual 6 months 612 12 25 More than undiscounted Carrying or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 57 303 360 349 Finance lease creditors 8 6 14 13 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers and other taxes payable 1,407 104 1,511 1,511 Due to related parties 34 34 34 Contingent consideration 1 6 2 9 8 Derivative instruments 3 1 4 4 Interest payments 4 3 6 6 19 1,506 121 15 309 1,951 1,919 The Group uses various funded facilities provided by banks and its own financial assets to fund the above mentioned financial liabilities.
Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a healthy capital base to sustain future growth and maximise shareholder value.
The Group seeks to optimise shareholder returns by maintaining a balance between debt and capital and monitors the efficiency of its capital structure on a regular basis.
The gearing ratio and return on shareholders equity is as follows: 2013 2012 US$m US$m Cash and short-term deposits 617 582 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings A 1,344 349 Net debt cash B 727 233 Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders C 1,989 1,549 Profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders D 650 632 Gross gearing ratio A C 67.6% 22.5% Net gearing ratio B C Net cash 36.6% position Shareholders return on investment D C 32.7% 40.8% 163 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29 Risk management and financial instruments continued Fair values of financial assets and liabilities The fair value of the Groups financial instruments and their carrying amounts included within the Groups statement of financial position are set out below: Carrying amount Fair value 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and short-term deposits 617 582 617 582 Restricted cash 5 11 5 11 Seven Energy warrants 11 12 11 12 Receivable under Berantai RSC 476 389 476 389 Amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area 200 115 200 115 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 24 1 24 1 Euro forward currency contracts undesignated 4 1 4 1 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Senior notes 742 750 Revolving credit facility 435 292 444 303 Project financing 135 138 Bank overdrafts 32 57 32 57 Contingent consideration 2 8 2 8 Interest rate swaps 2 2 Oil derivative 1 1 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge 2 1 2 1 Euro forward currency contracts undesignated 1 1 Sterling forward currency contracts undesignated 11 2 11 2 The Group considers that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables, work-in-progress, trade and other payables, other current and non-current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values and are therefore excluded from the above table.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs are mainly foreign exchange forward contracts and oil derivatives.
Market values have been used to determine the fair values of available-for-sale financial assets, forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps and oil derivatives.
The fair values of long-term interest-bearing loans and borrowings are equivalent to their amortised costs determined as the present value of discounted future cash flows using the effective interest rate.
The fair value of warrants over equity instruments in Seven Energy has been calculated using a Black Scholes model note 13.
The valuation requires management to make certain assumptions about unobservable inputs to the model, of which the significant unobservable inputs are disclosed in the table below: 2013 Volatility of underlying interest 56.8% Risk-free interest rate 0.4% Value of underlying interest on valuation date per share US$300 Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant unobservable inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value.
An increase in the value of underlying interest would lead to an increase in the fair value of the warrants.
The fair value of the warrants is not significantly sensitive to a reasonable change in the volatility of underlying interest or the risk-free interest rate, however it is to a reasonable change in the value of underlying interest, as is described in the following table: 2013 US$m US$25 increase in the value of underlying interest 2 US$25 decrease in the value of underlying interest 2 164 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 The fair value of the receivable under Berantai RSC has been calculated using a discounted cash flow model.
The valuation requires management to make certain assumptions about unobservable inputs to the model, of which the significant unobservable inputs are disclosed in the table below: 2013 Internal rate of return 15% Discount rate 6.0% Oil price per barrel US$100 Gas price per gigajoule US$7.37 Management regularly assesses a range of reasonably possible alternatives for those significant unobservable inputs and determines their impact on the total fair value.
The fair value of the receivable under Berantai RSC is only sensitive to a reasonable change in the internal rate of return and the discount rate.
The table below explains the impact on the fair value of the receivable as a result of changes to these inputs: 2013 US$m 100 basis points decrease in the internal rate of return 16 100 basis points increase in the discount rate 10 100 basis points decrease in the discount rate 10 Reconciliation of fair value measurement of the receivable under Berantai RSC: US$m As at 1 January 2013 389 Billings during the year 118 Fair value gain included in revenue 16 Unwinding of discount 23 Receipts during the year 70 As at 31 December 2013 476 165 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Subsidiaries and joint arrangements At 31 December 2013, the Group had investments in the following subsidiaries and joint arrangements: Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of company Country of incorporation 2013 2012 Trading subsidiaries Petrofac Algeria EURL Algeria 100 100 Petrofac Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100 100 CO2DeepStore Aspen Limited England 100 Eclipse Petroleum Technology Limited England 100 100 K W Limited England 100 100 Oilennium Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Malaysia-PM304 Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Contracting Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Services Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac UK Holdings Limited England 100 100 The New Energy Industries Limited England 100 100 TNEI Services Limited England 100 100 Caltec Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Energy Developments UK Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 1 1 Jermyn Insurance Company Limited Guernsey 100 100 Petrofac Engineering India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Information Services Private Limited India 100 100 PT.
Petrofac IKPT International Indonesia 51 51 Petrofac Integrated Energy Services Limited formerly CO2DeepStore 1 1 Holdings Limited Jersey 100 100 Monsoon Shipmanagement Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet Jersey Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Energy Developments International Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Energy Developments West Africa Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Facilities Management International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac FPF004 Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac FPSO Holding Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac GSA Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac International Ltd Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Offshore Management Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Platform Management Services Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Training International Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petroleum Facilities E & C Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac JSD 6000 Limited Jersey 100 Petrokyrgyzstan Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac E&C Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac FPF005 Limited Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Training Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 PFMAP Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 166 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of company Country of incorporation 2013 2012 Trading subsidiaries continued SPD Well Engineering Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 H&L SPD Americas S. fide R. L. Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Mexico SA fide CV Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Mexico Servicios SA fide CV Mexico 100 100 Operadora fide Campos del Noreste S. A. fide C. V. Mexico 100 Petrofac Global Employment B. V. Netherlands 100 Petrofac Kazakhstan B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Mexico Holdings B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Netherlands Cooperatief U.
A. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Netherlands Holdings B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Treasury B. V. Netherlands 100 100 PTS B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Kazakhstan Ventures B. V. Netherlands 100 Petrofac Nigeria B. V. Netherlands 100 Petrofac Norge B. V. Netherlands 100 Petrofac Russia B. V. Netherlands 100 Petrofac Energy Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 100 Petrofac International Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 100 KW Norge AS Norway 100 100 Petrofac Norge AS Norway 100 100 Petrofac E&C Oman LLC Oman 100 100 Petrofac Solutions & Facilities Support S. R. L Romania 100 100 2 2 PKT Technical Services Ltd Russia 50 50 PKT Training Services Ltd Russia 100 100 Sakhalin Technical Training Centre Russia 100 80 Petrofac Saudi Arabia Company Limited Saudi Arabia 100 100 Atlantic Resourcing Limited Scotland 100 100 CO DeepStore Limited Scotland 100 2 Petrofac Facilities Management Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Limited Scotland 100 100 Scotvalve Services Limited Scotland 100 100 SPD Limited Scotland 100 100 Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Holdings Limited Scotland 100 100 Plant Asset Management Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac FPF003 Pte Limited Singapore 100 100 1 1 Petrofac South East Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 100 100 Petrofac Training Institute Pte Limited Singapore 100 100 Petrofac International South Africa Pty Limited South Africa 100 100 2 3 Petrofac Emirates LLC note 10 United Arab Emirates 49 49 Petrofac E&C International Limited United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac FZE United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac International UAE LLC United Arab Emirates 100 100 2 2 SPD LLC United Arab Emirates 49 49 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet LLC United States 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Inc. United States 100 100 Petrofac Training Inc. United States 100 100 SPD Group Limited British Virgin Islands 100 100 167 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30 Subsidiaries and joint arrangements continued Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of company Country of incorporation 2013 2012 Dormant subsidiaries i Perform Limited Scotland 100 100 Joint Venture International Limited Scotland 100 100 Montrose Park Hotels Limited Scotland 100 100 RGIT Ethos Health & Safety Limited Scotland 100 100 Rubicon Response Limited Scotland 100 100 Scota Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Trinidad Limited Trinidad 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Services Inc USA 100 100 1 Petrofac ESOP Trustees Limited Jersey 100 Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Country of Name of joint arrangement Principal Activities incorporation 2013 2012 Joint Arrangements Joint ventures MJVI Sdn Bhd Dormant Brunei 50 50 Costain Petrofac Limited Dormant England 50 50 Spie Capag Petrofac International Limited Dormant Jersey 50 50 TTE Petrofac Limited Operation and management of a training Jersey 50 50 centre China Petroleum Petrofac Engineering Services Consultancy for Petroleum and chemical Netherlands 49 49 Cooperatif U.
A. engineering Professional Mechanical Repair Services Company Operation of service centre providing Saudi Arabia 50 50 mechanical services to oil and gas industry Joint operations 4 PetroAlfa Servicios Integrados fide Energia SAPI fide CV Services to oil and gas industry Mexico 50 5 5 Petro-SPM Integrated Services S. A. fide C. V. Production enhancement for Pnuco Mexico 50 50 6 6 Berantai Floating Production Limited Bareboat charter of a floating platform Malaysia 51 51 7 Bechtel Petrofac JV Feasibility study for a project in UAE Unincorporated 15 7 Petrofac Daelim JV EPC for a project in Oman Unincorporated 50 7 Petrofac Bonatti JV EPC for a project in Algeria Unincorporated 70 7 7 NGL 4 JV EPC for a project in UAE Unincorporated 45 45 1 Directly held by Petrofac Limited.
2 Companies consolidated as subsidiaries on the basis of control.
4 Joint arrangement classified as joint operation on the basis of contractual arrangement, whereby the activities of the arrangement are primarily designed for the provision of output to the venturers, this indicates that the venturers have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets of the arrangement.
5 Joint arrangement classified as joint operation on the basis of contractual arrangement between the joint venturers to be jointly and severally liable for performance under Pnuco ISC.
6 Joint arrangement classified as joint operation on the basis of contractual arrangement between the joint venturers that gives rights to assets and obligation for liabilities of the joint arrangement to the venturers.
7 The unincorporated arrangement between the venturers is a joint arrangement, as contractually, all the decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent by the venturers.
The Companys interest in joint ventures is disclosed on page 147.
