ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 glOSSary Key termS explaineD Apps Application software that runs within the chip.
ARM7 9 11 ARM7 processor was one of ARMs first commercial products.
ARMv8 Latest family of ARM processor designs.
LITTLE Combination of two different ARM processors on a single chip: one big that delivers high-performance when needed with the other LITTLE running most of the time enabling long battery-life.
CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate.
Cortex ARMs latest family of processors.
Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, including semiconductor companies, foundries, OEMs and software providers.
Fabless semiconductor company A fabless semiconductor company designs computer chips.
These chips are typically manufactured by a foundry.
Forexample Mediatek, NVIDIA and Qualcomm.
Foundry foundry is a specialist company that manufacturers computer chips on behalf of fabless semiconductor companies.
Intellectual Property IP ARM designs technology for use in computer chips.
The general term for the products that are designs only, or are creations of the mind, is intellectual property.
Internet of Things IoT An increasing variety of digital devices are being connected to the internet either directly or indirectly via a smartphone.
From pedometers to thermostats to streetlights.
Licence A licence is a legal agreement that confers certain rights to our Partners.
They pay an upfront free, which is reported as licence revenue.
LTE Long Term Evolution or 4G is the next generation wireless standard for mobile phones.
It is optimised for data streaming allowing internet connections at speeds similar to broadband in the home.
Mali ARMs family of 3D graphics processors.
Microcontroller MCU A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which has can be used in many applications.
Most ARM processors are used in either an SoC or MCU.
Original Equipment Manufacturer OEM OEM An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones.
For example Apple, HTC or LG Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARMs processor technology.
Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation a SoC design.
Processor Design of the brain of the computer chip.
POP IP Physical IP components that have been selected and optimised to implement a processor on a specific foundrys manufacturing process.
Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology.
The royalty is usually a percentage of the selling price of the chip and is reported as royalty revenue.
System-on-Chip SoC A SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into a single chip.
60 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2013 welCoMe to oUR StRAtegiC RePoRt ARMs Annual Report is in two parts.
The Strategic Report contains The Governance and Financial Report contains the details about information about the Group, how we make money and how we run how we run the business and remunerate management, and how inveStoR RelAtionS the business.
It includes our strategy, business model, markets and weorganise ourselves financially.
AUDitoRS StAteMent ContACt DetAilS key performance indicators, as well as our approach togovernance, Online you can find more information about our end markets, sustainability and risk management, and a summary of our The auditors report on the financial statements and the auditors statement undersection If want to inform us of a change address including case studies about how our technology is used in our financial management.
496of the Companies Act onwhether the information given in Strategic Report and or have lost your share certificate or have customers products.
A more detailed Corporate Responsibility Directors report for the financial year ended 31 December 2013 is consistent with the an enquiry about dividend payments A copy of the Governance and Financial Report can be downloaded report is also available online.
Group financial statements were both unqualified and can befound on page 55 of the please contact: from www.
StRAtegiC goveRnAnCe AnD online equiniti Shareholder Services RePoRt FinAnCiAl RePoRt RePoRting Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing BN99 6DA, UK Phone: 0871 384 2139 www.
com For all other enquires please contact one of ARMs investor relations team: our vision governance Front cover Most major population centres are covered Operational highlights 2 Chairmans introduction by 3G or 4G networks, and there were ian thornton more than two billion smartphones and Financial highlights 3 Board of Directors Head of Investor Relations tablets connecting to the internet in 2013.
ARM Holdings plc Chairmans review 4 Corporate governance With some mobile computers now costing as little as $35, many more people can 110 Fulbourn Road Chief Executives statement 6 Directors report afford to buy a smart device.
An entryCambridge, CB1 9NJ level mobile computer may have up to Directors remuneration report Phone: 44 1223 400796 our Performance fourARMbased chips.
com Financial Report Our marketplace 14 Downloads More information about ARM and our Our business model 16 Independent auditors report to the Phil Sparks end market opportunities are available members of ARM Holdings plc Investor Relations Manager Our global reach 18 onourweb site.
ARM Holdings plc Consolidated income statement Strategy and key performance Reports available online: 110 Fulbourn Road indicators 20 Consolidated statement of Cambridge, CB1 9NJ Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
com Strategic Report comprehensive income Mobile computing 32 Phone: 44 1223 405566 This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper which is certified by Governance and Financial Report Consolidated balance sheet E-mail: philip.
com Enterprise infrastructure 34 the Forest Stewardship Council and contains 100% recycled waste.
The paper Corporate Responsibility Report Consolidated cash flow statement is Process Chlorine Free PCF made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental Embedded computing 36 laura Faid management system accreditation.
This report was produced using the pureprint Consolidated statement of changes environmental print technology, aguaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently Investor Relations Associate our Commitment in shareholders equity audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
ARM Holdings plc Notes to the financial statements Governance 38 Printed using vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral printer certified to Liberty House ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco Moorbridge Road Company balance sheet UK GAAP Sustainability 44 Management Audit Scheme.
Maidenhead, SL6 8LT Notes to the financial statements Risk Management and principal risks 47 Phone: 44 1628 427800 ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan and Cortex are registered trademarks of ARM UK GAAP Limited.
ARM7, ARM9, ARM11, POP and Mali are trademarks of ARM Limited.
com our Financial Review Independent auditors report to the www.
com reporting2013 members of ARM Holdings plc Chief Financial Officers review 52 glossary and group directory Summary accounts 58 Glossary Glossary 60 Group directory Key shareholder information ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Strategic Report ARM Holdings plc 110 Fulbourn Road Cambridge CB1 9NJ United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1223 400400 Facsimile 44 0 1223 400410 www.
com twitter: @ARMCommunity pinterest: ARMLtd facebook.
com armflix enAbling innovAtion eveRywHeRe ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Strategic Report ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Governance & Financial Report ARM Holdings plc 110 Fulbourn Road Cambridge CB1 9NJ United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1223 400400 Facsimile 44 0 1223 400410 www.
com twitter: @ARMCommunity pinterest: ARMLtd effective goveRnAnce facebook.
com armflix And stRong finAnciAl peRfoRMAnce ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Governance & Financial Report WelcoMe to oUR goveRnAnce And finAnciAl RepoRt ARMs annual report is in two parts.
The Strategic Report contains The Governance and Financial Report contains the details about investoR RelAtions contAct detAils information about the Group, how we make money and how we run how we run the business and remunerate management, and how the business.
If want to inform us of a change address For all other enquires please contact one of key performance indicators, as well as our approach togovernance, or have lost your share certificate or have ARMs investor relations team: Online you can find more information about our end markets, sustainability and risk management, and a summary of our an enquiry about dividend payments including case studies about how our technology is used in our financial management.
A more detailed Corporate Responsibility reportis also available online.
equiniti shareholder services ian thornton laura faid Aspect House Head of Investor Relations Investor Relations Associate goveRnAnce And Spencer Road ARM Holdings plc ARM Holdings plc finAnciAl RepoRt stRAtegic RepoRt online RepoRting Lancing 110 Fulbourn Road Liberty House BN99 6DA, UK Cambridge, CB1 9NJ Moorbridge Road Maidenhead, SL6 8LT Phone: 0871 384 2139 Phone: 44 1223 400796 Phone: 44 1628 427800 www.
com phil sparks Investor Relations Manager ARM Holdings plc governance our vision front cover 110 Fulbourn Road Cambridge, CB1 9NJ Most major population centres are now Chairmans introduction 1 Operational highlights covered by 3G or 4G networks, and there Phone: 44 1223 405566 were more than two billion smartphones Board of directors 4 Financial highlights E-mail: philip.
com and tablets connecting to the internet in Corporate governance 6 Chairmans review 2013.
With some mobile computers now costing as little as $35, many more people Directors report 23 Chief Executives statement can now afford to buy a smart device.
An entry-level mobile computer may have Directors remuneration report 29 our performance up to fourARMbased chips.
financial Report Our marketplace downloads More information about ARM and our Independent Auditors Report to the Our business model end market opportunities are available Members of ARM Holdings plc 55 Our global reach onourwebsite.
Consolidated income statement 60 Strategy and key Reports available online: Consolidated statement performance indicators Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
com Strategic Report of comprehensive income 60 Mobile computing This report has been printed on Cocoon Offset a paper which is certified by Governance and Financial Report Consolidated balance sheet 61 Enterprise infrastructure the Forest Stewardship Council and contains 100% recycled waste.
The paper Corporate Responsibility Report Consolidated cash flow statement 62 is Process Chlorine Free PCF made at a mill with ISO 14001 environmental Embedded computing management system accreditation.
This report was produced using the pureprint Consolidated statement of changes environmental print technology, aguaranteed, low carbon, low waste, independently in shareholders equity 63 our commitment audited process that reduces the environmental impact of the printing process.
Notes to the financial statements 64 Governance Printed using vegetable oil based inks by a CarbonNeutral printer certified to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco Company balance sheet UK GAAP 109 Sustainability Management Audit Scheme.
Notes to the financial statements Risk management and principal risks ARM, ARM Powered, Artisan and Cortex are registered trademarks of ARM UK GAAP 110 Limited.
our financial Review Independent Auditors Report to the www.
com reporting2013 Members of ARM Holdings plc 115 Chief Financial Officers review glossary and group directory Summary accounts Glossary 117 Glossary Group directory 118 Key shareholder information 120 Governance Financial Report Chairmans introduCtion a strong and effeCtive governanCe system sir John BuChanan Chairman The Board actively considers long-term This report explains the Boards commitment to good strategy, monitors, challenges and supports corporate governance, corporate responsibility and the the work of the Executive Committee, and highestethical standards.
We believe that effective governance isresponsible for Board and executive management succession.
My role as is an essential contributor to our sustained improvement in Chairman is to provide the leadership to business performance.
ensure high quality decision making in all areas of strategy, performance, responsibility Operating with integrity in all we do is vital to maintain the trust and accountability.
of investors, customers, our employees and other stakeholders.
As a Board, we have ultimate responsibility for the Groups performance and for This requires leadership, ethical behaviour and collaboration.
overseeing the management of risk.
We seek to do this through a strong and effective dear shareholder The Boards aim is to nurture a working governance system and by setting and environment in which the highest standards Welcome to ARMs 2013 Governance and following the standards that we expect from of behaviour are established, demonstrated Financial Report.
This is the first year we have all our employees.
These standards are and maintained in all our activities.
This helps created the annual report as two documents: enshrined in ARMs seven shared values, us to run the Group effectively and exercise a Strategic Report containing an update on which are listed below.
judgement to manage the risks that we face ARMs progress during the year, a summary of This part of the report explains how we to levels that are commensurate with the our approach to governance, and our financial comply with good corporate governance nature of our business.
There are results: and a separate document giving more principles, describes how the Board well-defined differences in roles between the detail on governance at ARM and our full and its Committees work to provide executive and non-executive directors and accounts.
We believe that these two appropriate oversight, and our approach their combined contributions as an documents together fulfil the best practice to risk management and internal control.
experienced, but healthily diverse, team add guidelines given by the UK Governments Risk management and principal risks are also value to the debate, decision making and covered on pages 47 to 49 of the Strategic Department for Business Innovation and development of strategy that are so crucial Report.
As ever wewelcome your feedback, to the Groups success.
and improved our risk assessment and and you can contact us via the investor reporting framework under the guidance relations website atwww.
of Kathleen ODonovan, who chairs the AuditCommittee, and with assistance from external advisers.
We need to ensure that 1 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Chairmans introduCtion CONTINUED our processes are fit for purpose, and that the Chairman of Rexam plc and a non-executive Reports from the various Board Committees information that comes to the Board focuses director of Tesco PLC.
Up to 2009, he was and details of their current composition are on the principal risks and appropriately informs the Group Chief Executive of Nippon Sheet covered in more detail in the Corporate our ongoing risk appetite discussions.
Glass Group which acquired Pilkington plc in Governance and Remuneration reports below.
2006, where he was Chief Executive.
Prior to directors and succession planning During 2013, the Board played an important the glass industry, Stuart held a number role in successfully guiding ARM through As part of our planned and continuing of senior positions at Mars, Inc. having the Chief Executive Officer transition and evolution of the Board there were a number previously spent ten years in several European ensuring that the Groups performance of changes in 2013, and further changes are roles at Royal Dutch Shell plc.
targets were achieved in the challenging planned in 2014.
It has been a great privilege to serve as and competitive economic environment.
Simon Segars succeeded Warren East as Chairman of ARM and I have greatly enjoyed The Board also provided clear strategic Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2013 and my time on the Board of this fine company.
direction and ensured that the Groups the strong financial performance achieved for Due to the medical uncertainties, it is right standards of conduct met its expectations.
the full year demonstrates that the transition that I should step aside at this time and I wish The roles and specific expertise of the current has been seamless and well executed.
the Group well under its new leadership.
I will members of the Board are set out in the The Board was delighted to have a candidate continue as an independent non-executive Biographies section on pages 4 to 5. of Simons experience and calibre within ARM director until the AGM on 1 May 2014 and to appoint to this role.
Following an extensive will then retire from the Board.
diversity externally conducted review of candidates After the changes referred to above, the Philip Rowley will also be retiring from the worldwide, Simons proven technology Board will comprise three executive directors, Board at the AGM, on the ninth anniversary expertise and management skills across a the Chairman, and five non-executive of his election by shareholders.
On behalf range of senior executive roles resulted in directors.
At the year end there were eight of the Board I want to express our deep him being selected.
His initiatives in the period men 80% and two women 20% which appreciation to Philip for his excellent, wide since his appointment, including changes to broadly reflects the gender diversity of ARMs ranging contributions during his tenure.
the organisation structure to better address workforce as a whole.
He chaired the Remuneration Committee the needs of our customers, confirm that he until 31 December 2013, before that was is highly qualified to take the Group forward.
Chairman of the Audit Committee, and he Diversity of the Board Warren retired after nearly 12 years as CEO has also been a long-standing member of the Men 80% and 19 outstanding years with the Group.
We offer our deep Women 20% He built a strong platform for growth and thanks and wish him well for the future.
consistently created value for shareholders, The Board reflects a balance between even in a challenging external environment.
technology sector, commercial, financial On behalf of the Board and the wider ARM and general business skills, with a highly team, deep thanks are due to Warren for his experienced international team leading the passion, service and leadership.
The Board business in both executive and non-executive was delighted to see Warrens achievements roles.
We were pleased to welcome Eric acknowledged through the award of a CBE in Meurice to the Board in July 2013.
He brings the 2014 New Years Honours List.
Mike Inglis The Board noted the publication of Lord a wealth of experience of the semiconductor also retired from the Board on 31 March Davies Review into Women on Boards in industry having been President and CEO of 2013 and left with our sincere thanks and February 2011 and the proposals published ASML Holding NV a leading provider of good wishes.
by the European Commission in November manufacturing equipment and technology 2012 the latter of which includes an objective In January 2014 we announced that, with to the semiconductor industry from 2004 that 40% of non-executive directors should much regret, I have requested that I step until 2013. be women by 2020.
We believe that diversity down as Chairman of ARM, due to a medical should be considered broadly, as well as The Nomination Committee is seeking further condition.
The Board conducted a thorough focusing on gender.
It is important to achieve candidates as independent non-executive search, led by the Senior Independent the correct balance of skills, knowledge and directors with appropriate skills, experience Director, and was pleased to welcome experience on the Board.
We will continue and diversity to complement our existing Stuart Chambers to the Board as Chairman to make appointments on merit and also to Board members and maintain, collectively, designate on 27 January 2014.
He took over value diversity in its broadest context.
Stuart is 2 Governance Financial Report development of strategy remuneration and training programmes to ensure that all employees worldwide understand the The Boards work on defining our shortand ARMs remuneration policy seeks to requirements of all relevant legislation, long-term strategic priorities at this important align the interests of executive directors, including the UK Bribery Act 2010 and stage in the Groups development is receiving senior management and shareholders, its global reach and the principles of and increased focus.
We undertook a detailed and is structured to enable the Group importance of compliance with competition strategy review in September and the next into attract, motivate and retain the talent law and anti-trust law.
The Compliance depth strategy meeting is scheduled for April required to deliver the business strategy.
Committee reviews a range of activities 2014.
This meeting will focus on progress to The Remuneration Committee, under Philip across the Group, sets appropriate policies date and future plans to take advantage of Rowleys chairmanship, undertook a review and procedures, and takes the lead in the significant opportunities that have been of executive remuneration policy during 2012, ensuring compliance with them.
These opportunities are in areas which resulted in the approval of our new on its activities to the Board through that include the evolving Internet of Things, Long-Term Incentive Plan by shareholders the Committee.
efficient networking, ARM-powered servers at the 2013 AGM.
The changes, which take and security applications.
More details are effect in 2014, reflect the latest guidelines and Employee performance is measured each year included in the Strategic Report that forms the the desire of shareholders for: against a set of seven shared values: other part of ARMs Annual Report 2013. the simplification of incentive plans Delivery of results that benefit ARM Corporate governance framework for executives: androle of the Board Teamwork and selflessness longer holding periods for shares: The Groups corporate governance Constructive pro-activity framework is built around three pillars: increased share ownership requirements.
Partner and customer focus Organisation, structure and processes.
Details of how these principles have been Responsiveness applied are included in the policy section of The internal control framework.
As was the case Innovation Independent assurance.
last year, we also include total remuneration figures for executive directors in the report.
Personal development ARM has its primary listing on the London The Board is cognisant of the general Stock Exchange and is also listed on Corporate responsibility sensitivity relating to executive director the NASDAQ Stock Market in the US.
Full details of our CR strategy and remuneration.
We are committed to the Throughout 2013, the Group complied achievements can be found in the main CR principle that there should be no reward for fully with the UK Corporate Governance report www.
com reporting2013 and failure and believe that the increased emphasis Code September 2012 and also with the a summary of highlights from the year are on long-term performance-related pay, longer Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US.
The Board included in the Sustainability section of the holding periods and increased shareholding values good corporate governance and this Strategic Report on page 44. requirements are appropriate and ensure is reflected in our governance principles, that ARMs remuneration policy does not I hope the following reports demonstrate that policies and practices, and our everyday encourage inappropriate risk taking.
setting the corporate governance framework working processes.
This approach is backed continues to be a key focus for the Board.
by continuous improvement based on ethics and values We must always be conscious of the fact measurement against internal and external All directors and employees are required that the Boards primary responsibility is to audits by both Lloyds Register Quality to act fairly, honestly and with integrity, and promote the long-term success of the Group Assurance and the external auditors, to demonstrate that they have read and for the benefit of customers, employees and benchmarking and a rigorous approach to understand the Groups Code of Business shareholders and I am confident that we are risk management.
Conduct and Ethics, a copy of which is well positioned to continue to provide value published on the corporate website at to all our stakeholders.
Our Human Rights Policy is now incorporated in our Code of Business sir John Buchanan Conduct and Ethics.
Chairman until 1 March 2014 As part of our commitment to the highest 5 March 2014 standards of business conduct and ethics, we have implemented enhanced communication 3 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Board of direCtors the experienCe of the team ARMs Board has the breadth stuart ChamBers 57 simon segars 46 and depth of experience necessary to guide the Group as it seeks to take full advantage of new Chairman Chief Executive Officer opportunities and contend from 1 March 2014 Committees Committees with new challenges.
Nomination Committee Chairman from 1 March 2014 None Biographical details of the Current directorships Current directorships Rexam plc Chairman SOI Industry Consortium director directors as at the date of Tesco plc independent non-executive director EDA Consortium director thisreport are as follows: Time on Board Time on Board 1 month 9 years 2 months Expertise Expertise sir John BuChanan 70 Stuart Chambers joined the Board as Chairman designate on Simon Segars joined the Board in January 2005 and 27 January 2014 and became Chairman on 1 March 2014. was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2013.
He brings a strong track record and a wealth of Board and His previous roles include President, leading the IP divisions executive experience both in the UK and globally.
Up to and representing them on the Board, EVP and General 2009, he was the Group Chief Executive of Nippon Sheet Manager of the Processor and Physical IP Divisions and prior Glass Group, which acquired Pilkington plc in 2006, where he to that, EVP, Engineering, EVP, Worldwide Sales and EVP, was Chief Executive.
Prior to the glass industry, Stuart held Business Development.
He joined ARM in early 1991 and a number of senior positions at Mars, Inc. having previously worked on many of the early ARM CPU products.
He led the Chairman TM TM spent ten years in several European roles at Royal Dutch development of the ARM7 and ARM9 Thumb families.
He holds a number of patents in the field of embedded CPU architectures.
Committees Nomination Committee Chairman until 1 March 2014 tim sCore 53 andy green 58 Current directorships Smith & Nephew plc Chairman BHP Billiton plc Senior Independent Director International Chamber of Commerce UK Chairman Chairman of the UK Trustees for the Christchurch Earthquake appeal Time on Board Independent I year 10 months Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Expertise Committees Committees John Buchanan joined the Board as Chairman on 3 May Risk Review Committee Remuneration Committee 2012.
His intention to retire from the Board, due to a Compliance Committee Nomination Committee medical condition, was announced on 27 January 2014.
He handed over the role of Chairman on 1 March 2014 Current directorships Current directorships and will retire from the Board at the AGM on 1 May 2014.
National Express Group plc Senior Independent Director and Dock On AG Chairman He has broad international experience gained in large and Chairman of the Audit Committee until 25 February 2014 complex businesses.
He has experience and knowledge of Networking People UK Limited Chairman the international investor community and has held various Time on Board UK Government Connected Digital Economy Catapult leadership roles in strategic, financial, operational and 12 years CDEC Chairman marketing positions, including executive experience in different ABESU Trustee and director countries.
He is a former Chief Financial Officer of BP plc and Expertise a former Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Tim Score joined ARM as Chief Financial Officer and director Time on Board of Vodafone Group plc.
Before joining ARM, he was Finance Director 3 years 1 month of Rebus Group Limited.
He was previously Group Finance Director of William Baird plc, Group Controller at LucasVarity Expertise plc and Group Financial Controller at BTR plc.
Andy Green joined the Board in February 2011.
He was CEO of Logica plc from 2008 to 2012.
He is a former CEO of BT Global Services and a former CEO of Group Strategy and Operations at BT plc and was CEO of BT Openworld.
He is Chair of e-Skills UK the UK Sector Skills Council for Business and Information Technology, is on the Board and the Presidents Committee of the CBI and is a Companion of the Chartered Management Institute.
4 Governance Financial Report Larry hirst 62 eriC meuriCe 57 miKe muLLer 55 Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Technology Officer Committees Committees Committees Remuneration Committee Chairman from 1 January 2014 Audit Committee from 1 January 2014 Risk Review Committee Chairman Audit Committee until 31 December 2013 Current activities Current directorships ASML Holding NV Chairman Intelligent Energy Limited Current directorships MITIE Group plc non-executive director Trustonic Limited Time on Board 7 months Time on Board Time on Board 3 years 2 months 12 years 5 months Expertise Eric Meurice joined the Board in July 2013.
He was President Expertise Expertise and Chief Executive Officer of ASML Holding NV from Larry Hirst joined the Board in January 2011.
He is the former Mike Muller was one of the founders of ARM.
Before joining October 2004 until 30 June 2013 and will continue as Chairman of IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa.
He retired the Group, he was responsible for hardware strategy and their Chairman until 31 March 2014.
Former roles include from IBM in 2010 having previously held a wide range of senior the development of portable products at Acorn Computers.
Executive Vice President of Thomson Television Worldwide positions since joining the company in 1977.
He currently He was previously at Orbis Computers.
At ARM he was VP, and head of Dell Computers Western, Eastern Europe chairs the Imperial College Digital Cities Exchange.
He is Marketing from 1992 to 1996 and EVP, Business Development and EMEA emerging market businesses.
He also gained also an Ambassador to Monitise plc and on the International until October 2000 when he was appointed Chief Technology extensive technology experience in the semiconductor Advisory Board for British Airways.
In October 2001, he was appointed to the Board.
industry between 1984 and 1994 at Intel and then at ITT being a UK Business Ambassador, a Commissioner for the Semiconductors Group.
Commission for Employment and Skills, and Chair of e-skills UK the UK Sector Skills Council for Business and Information Technology.
KathLeen odonovan 56 JaniCe roBerts 58 phiLip rowLey 61 Senior Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Committees Committees Committees Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman until 31 December 2013 Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Current directorships Current directorships Nomination Committee Invensys Pension Trustee Ltd Chairman Mayfield Fund Venture Adviser Trinity Mirror plc Non-Executive Director and Chairman of RealNetworks, Inc. Non-Executive Director Current directorships the Audit Committee Promethean World plc Non-Executive Director and Zebra Technologies Corporation Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee D S Smith Plc Non-Executive Director Time on Board Livestation Limited Chairman Time on Board 3 years 2 months Pouncer Media Limited Chairman 7 years 3 months Expertise Time on Board Expertise Janice Roberts joined the Board in January 2011.
She is a 9 years 2 months Kathleen ODonovan joined the Board in December 2006.
Venture Adviser at Mayfield Fund having been a Managing Previously she was a non-executive director and Chairman of Director from 2000-2013.
Mayfield is a Silicon Valley-based Expertise the Audit Committees of the Court of the Bank of England, venture capital firm with approximately $3 billion under Philip Rowley joined the Board in January 2005 and will be Great Portland Estates plc, EMI Group plc and Prudential plc management, where her focus is on the mobile, wireless, retiring at the 2014 AGM.
He was Chairman and CEO of and a non-executive director of O2 plc.
Prior to that, she was communications and consumer technology industries.
AOL Europe, the internet services and web brands provider Chief Financial Officer of BTR plc and Invensys plc, and before Prior to that, she held various executive positions at 3Com until February 2007 and Chairman of HMV Group plc until that she was a Partner at Ernst & Young.
Corporation, including President Palm Computing, President early 2013.
He is a qualified chartered accountant and was 3Com Ventures and Senior Vice President, Business Group Finance Director of Kingfisher plc from 1998 to 2000 and Deputy CEO and CFO of the General Merchandise Development and Global Marketing.
She is a director of Division until 2001.
Prior to that, his roles included EVP, Chief several private technology companies in the US.
Financial Officer of EMI Music Worldwide.
5 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Corporate governanCe a BaLanCed Bo ard str uCture This section and the Remuneration report detail how the Group has applied the principles of good governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012.
Compliance statement Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, The Group has complied with the provisions The Board is collectively responsible for the which include: of the UK Corporate Governance Code overall conduct of the Groups business.
throughout 2013 and to the date of this Group strategy and major The Boards core activities include: document.
The Group also achieved full business decisions: compliance with the requirements of section providing leadership for the Group: 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US for annual budgets and long-term plans: the eighth successive year.
The Companys active engagement in developing the major capital expenditure, acquisitions, American Depositary Shares are listed on Groups long-term strategy: disposals and investments: NASDAQ and we are therefore subject to monitoring executive actions, standards and comply fully with NASDAQ rules, US financial reporting, controls and of conduct, performance against business Securities laws and Securities and Exchange financial structure: plans and budgets and ensuring that the Commission rules to the extent that they necessary financial resources and people apply to foreign private issuers.
We explain shareholder communications: are in place for the Group to meet in the reports below how we applied the its objectives: key policies: provisions and principles of the FCA Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, obtaining assurance that material risks to key advisers.
and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Group are identified, that appropriate throughout the year.
The schedule was reviewed in January 2014. systems of risk management and control exist to mitigate such risks and defining the Composition and operation of Groups appetite for risk: theBoard Board and executive At the end of 2013, the Board comprised management succession: three executive directors the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the responsibility for the long-term success Chief Technology Officer, the Chairman, ofthe Group having regard to the interests and six independent non-executive directors.
of all stakeholders: Stuart Chambers was appointed to the Board as Chairman designate on 27 January 2014. responsibility for ensuring the effectiveness Their biographies appear on pages 4 to 5. of and reporting on our system of John Buchanan and Philip Rowley will be corporate governance.
retiring from the Board at the 2014 AGM.
6 Governance Financial Report Board and Committee struCture Chairman Stuart Chambers KEY OBJECTIVES: leadership, operation and governance of the Board.
Board 11 directors three executive directors, the Chairman and seven independent non-executive directors.
KEY OBJECTIVES: the overall conduct of the Groups business and setting the Groups strategy.
nomination audit remuneration Chief exeCutive Committee Committee Committee offiCer Three independent Four independent Four independent Simon Segars non-executive directors, non-executive directors, non-executive directors, Chairman Stuart Chambers.
Chairman Kathleen Chairman Larry Hirst.
KEY OBJECTIVES: KEY OBJECTIVES: KEY OBJECTIVES: KEY OBJECTIVES: to make recommendations to the to monitor the integrity of the to review and make to manage the Groups business Board for future appointments to Groups financial statements, to recommendations to the Board and, with the Executive Committee, ensure that the Board comprises review the effectiveness of the on executive remuneration.
to implement Group strategy individuals with appropriate skills, Groups internal controls over and policies.
knowledge and experience financial reporting, and to provide to be effective in discharging oversight for the Groups risk its responsibilities.
risK review Committee exeCutive Committee disCLosure Committee Two executive directors, two other 14 members including the executive Six members chaired by the Chief Executive Committee members and two directors, key division and function Executive Officer and including three senior executives, Chairman Mike Muller.
KEY OBJECTIVES: KEY OBJECTIVES: KEY OBJECTIVES: to identify and evaluate risks which may impact to focus on strategy, the day-to-day running to ensure that disclosures made to the Groups strategic and business objectives of the business, financial and competitive shareholders and the investment community and to monitor the progress of actions performance, organisational development, are accurate and complete.
designed to mitigate such risks.
succession planning and implementation of policies.
7 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Corporate governanCe CONTINUED Conflicts The other non-executive directors have Board meetings shorter service and are regarded as The Board is fully aware of the other Board and Committee papers are circulated independent in character, judgement and commitments of the former and current electronically before each meeting.
behaviour, based on both participation and Chairman, and the executive and nonThe business considered at each Board performance at Board and Committee executive directors.
All directors have meeting includes the Chief Executive meetings.
There are no relationships or completed conflicts of interest questionnaires Officers report on the status of the business, circumstances that are likely to affect the and any planned changes in their directorships incorporating industry and strategic judgement of any of them.
It is the policy outside the Group are subject to prior development and the Chief Financial of the Board to review the continued approval by the Board.
No conflicts of Officers report incorporating financial, appointment of non-executive directors interest arose in 2013 or to date in 2014, market and investor-related information.
Both Sir John and no other situations have been identified On a cyclical basis, Board agendas also include Buchanan and Stuart Chambers were that might lead to a conflict of interest.
detailed assessments of risk, governance, regarded as independent at the time of their In circumstances where a potential conflict corporate responsibility, public affairs, respective appointments as Chairman and arises, the Board excluding the director performance by division and geographical Chairman designate.
concerned would consider the situation area, competitive landscape, R&D and and either authorise the arrangement in organisation succession planning.
non-executive directors expertise accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Kathleen ODonovan has been the Senior and the articles of association or take other Approximate allocation of Board agenda time in 2013 Independent Director since January 2011. appropriate action.
In this capacity she acts as a sounding Strategy and risk 51% independence board for the Chairman and provides Business updates financial reporting 30% a communication channel between the The Board reviewed the independence of Division and Chairman and the non-executive directors.
function updates 12% the non-executive directors on appointment Governance 7% She is also available to discuss matters with and continues to do so on an ongoing shareholders, if required.
The independence of the longer and early 2014, she led the Nomination serving non-executive directors, Kathleen Committee through the process to identify ODonovan and Philip Rowley, has been and recommend the recruitment of the considered.
Kathleen ODonovan, who has In the event that a director is unable to attend new Chairman.
now served for seven years, remains highly a meeting or participate by conference call, committed and continues to be regarded Janice Roberts who is based in Silicon Valley, they receive and read the documents for as independent.
In her capacity as Senior Larry Hirst, Andy Green and Eric Meurice all consideration at that meeting, and have the Independent Director and Chairman of have a broad understanding of the Groups opportunity to relay their comments and, if the Audit Committee her independence technology and the practices of major USnecessary, to follow up with the Chairman or is demonstrated on many occasions each based technology companies.
Philip Rowley the Chief Executive Officer after the meeting.
year through her robust approach to and Kathleen ODonovan are both financial questioning management.
Philip Rowley, The non-executive directors are encouraged experts with strong financial backgrounds.
who will be retiring from the Board in May to suggest matters for Board discussions, and The beneficial interests of the directors in the 2014, has demonstrated his independence in 2013 they were active in contributing to the share capital of the Company are set out in on many occasions during his tenure in agenda for the strategy review and ensuring the Remuneration report.
both his interactions with management and the amount of time spent on strategic shareholders on remuneration matters.
and operational issues was appropriately balanced.
The independently conducted Board evaluation in 2013 confirmed that the September 2013 strategy meeting was considered to be thorough and informative.
An additional strategy meeting has again been scheduled during 2014 and strategy will continue to be covered regularly at Board meetings during the year.
8 Governance Financial Report During 2013, the non-executive directors Scheduled Conference calls encouraged the executive team to allocate Board meetings ad hoc meetings resources to accelerate the development of number 6 6 technology in the Internet of Things arena.
Sir John Buchanan 6 6 5 6 A new group was set up in 2013 to focus on Simon Segars 6 6 6 6 the Internet of Things and has been enhanced by the acquisition in July 2013 of Sensinode, Andy Green 6 6 6 6 which has developed software for connecting Larry Hirst 5 6 6 6 wireless low-power, low-cost devices to Eric Meurice 2 3 3 3 the internet.
Mike Muller 6 6 5 6 Key senior executives attend Board meetings Kathleen ODonovan 6 6 5 6 throughout the year, which gives the nonJanice Roberts 6 6 5 6 executive directors visibility of executive talent below executive director level, direct Philip Rowley 6 6 6 6 information about business developments, Tim Score 6 6 5 6 and informs them on potential management, Warren East retired 30 June 2013 3 3 3 3 succession.
In particular, each year the general Mike Inglis retired 31 March 2013 2 2 1 1 managers of the divisions present a review of past performance against key objectives and KPIs, and their proposals for the coming year.
Chairman The Chairman has primary responsibility for running the Board and the Chief Executive As previously announced and also explained During 2013, the Chairman held at least two Officer has executive responsibility for the on page 2, Sir John Buchanan retired meetings with the non-executive directors operations and results of the Group, and as Chairman on 1 March 2014 and will without the executives present, and the also for making proposals to the Board in leave the Board at the close of the AGM non-executive directors met on at least one relation to the strategic development of the on 1 May 2014.
He is also Chairman of occasion without the Chairman being present.
The Board recognises that the roles Smith & Nephew plc and the International of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The table above shows directors attendance Chamber of Commerce UK, and is Senior are distinct as described below and also at scheduled Board meetings, conference calls Independent Director of BHP Billiton plc.
the importance of establishing an excellent and ad hoc meetings which they were eligible He has attended all meetings and conference working relationship between them.
to attend during the 2013 financial year.
calls since the date of his appointment and also several induction sessions, meeting During 2013, there were regular meetings members of the executive team and a range and calls between the Chairman and the of senior managers to increase his knowledge Chief Executive Officer outside Board and understanding of the various parts of the meetings.
These discussions provided and business and its operations.
continue to provide opportunities for the exchange of information, mentoring and Stuart Chambers joined the Board on regular updates on the list of priorities that 27 January 2014 and took over from Sir the Board set for the Chief Executive Officer John Buchanan as Chairman on 1 March on his appointment.
He is Chairman of Rexam plc and development of the organisation and the next an independent non-executive director generation of executives, working effectively ofTesco plc.
with the Board, ensuring appropriate strategic decisions are made on investments, employee motivation, and customer focus.
9 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Corporate governanCe CONTINUED Main responsibilities of the Chairman include: Chief executive officer annual report, information and communication with shareholders Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive leadership of the Board and creating the andother stakeholders Officer include: conditions for overall Board and individual The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and director effectiveness, and a constructive proposing and developing the Groups approving the Annual Report and the quarterly relationship with good communication strategy and overall commercial earnings releases, and for ensuring that they between the executive and nonobjectives in conjunction with the present a balanced assessment of the Groups executive directors: Executive Committee: position, lies with the Board.
ensuring that the Board as a whole day-to-day management of the The Board delegates day-to-day responsibility plays a full and constructive part in the Groups business: for managing the Group to the Executive development of strategy and overall Committee and has a number of other chairing the Executive Committee: commercial objectives: Committees, details of which are set out on the following pages.
maintaining a close working relationship chairing the Nomination Committee, with the Chairman: which initiates succession planning investor relations to retain and build an effective and meeting regularly with ARMs leading The Board makes considerable efforts to complementary Board: customers for executive discussions on establish and maintain good relationships broad strategic and industry trends: ensuring that there is effective with shareholders and the wider investment communication with shareholders and community.
There is regular dialogue with hosting discussions with influential that members of the Board develop an institutional investors during the year, except media outlets: understanding of the views of the major during close periods.
The main channel of investors in the Group: communication continues to be through the fostering good relationships with Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial ARMs larger shareholders and major promoting the highest standards Officer and the VP of Investor Relations.
financial institutions: of integrity, probity and corporate The Chairman, the Senior Independent governance throughout the Group, representing the organisation in various Director and the other directors are particularly at Board level: industry organisation and professional available to engage in dialogue with major associations, and activities within the local shareholders as appropriate.
Beginning in ensuring that the performance of the community and at international level.
2012, the Chairman of the Remuneration Board as a whole, its Committees Committee and the Chairman consulted with and individual directors is formally and Company secretary shareholders on the terms of the new Long rigorously evaluated at least once a year.
Patricia Alsop acts as Secretary to the Board Term Incentive Plan, which was approved at and Board Committees, and all Board the 2013 AGM.
Philip Rowley also consulted members have individual access to her with major shareholders over incentive advice.
She ensures that the Board receives programmes in 2013 and early in 2014. all relevant information in a timely manner, The Board encourages communication organises induction and training programmes, with private investors and part of the and facilitates the Board evaluation in years Groups website is dedicated to providing when this is conducted internally.
She is also information for all investors, including responsible for ensuring that the correct responses to frequently asked questions, Board and Committee procedures are the investment case, product information, followed and advises the Board on corporate press releases, RNS and Securities and governance matters.
The established Exchange Commission SEC announcements, procedure under which directors can, where and an interactive online version of the appropriate, obtain independent legal or Annual Report.
other professional advice at the Groups expense is also administered through her.
10 Governance Financial Report At present, over 30 sell-side analysts write Board evaluation the size, composition and mix of the Board: research reports on the Group and their The Board undertakes an annual review of its details appear on the Groups website.
succession planning both within effectiveness.
In order to provide the longest Shareholders can also obtain telephone the executive team and the nonpossible period in which to evaluate the numbers from the website, enabling them executive directors: performance of the Board following the change to listen to earnings presentations and audio of Chief Executive Officer in July 2013, the providing improved visibility of the conference calls with analysts.
In addition, Board evaluation was deferred until late 2013. strategicplanning and review process webcasts or audiocasts of key presentations This exercise was conducted by an external tothe non-executive directors: are made available through the website.
provider, Independent Audit, who had detailed individual discussions with all members of the the number and scheduling of Members of the Board develop an Board, four senior executives and the external Board meetings: understanding of the views of major audit partner.
The findings were reported shareholders through any direct contact increased focus on strategy which has been to the Board in January 2014 and were the that may be initiated by shareholders, or addressed by the Chief Executive Officer subject of detailed discussion by the Board in through analysts and brokers briefings.
including a strategy update within each of February 2014.
Neither the Group nor any The Board also receives feedback from the his reports and scheduling an additional individual director has any connection with Groups brokers and financial PR advisers, full-day meeting in April 2014: Independent Audit.
who in turn obtain feedback from analysts and brokers following investor roadshows.
a continuing programme of development The 2013 evaluation covered: All shareholders can register to receive the sessions teach-ins for the non-executive Groups press releases via the internet.
directors in order to provide them with Board composition and dynamics: a more detailed appreciation of possible agm the Boards role: strategic and technological developments.
The Board actively encourages participation at The first of these, on the Internet of the operation of the Board, which was the AGM, scheduled for 1 May 2014, which is Things technology, was held in February observed first hand: the principal forum for dialogue with private 2014 andfurther sessions are planned: shareholders.
The Circular and Notice of AGM the operation of each of the continuing development and are being sent to shareholders concurrently Audit, Remuneration and documentation of risk assessment with the distribution of this report, which is well Nomination Committees.
in advance of the required 20 working days before the meeting.
A presentation is made The overall conclusion was that individual outlining recent developments in the business Board members are satisfied that the Board and an open question-and-answer session works well and operates effectively in an follows to enable shareholders to ask questions environment where there is constructive about the business in general.
The Chairman, challenge from the non-executive directors.
who chairs the Nomination Committee, They are also satisfied with the contribution will be present at the AGM.
He will arrange made by their colleagues and that Board for the respective chairs of the Audit and Committees operate properly and efficiently.
Remuneration Committees to be available to There are a number of areas for further answer questions and for all directors to attend.
consideration and action in 2014 including: All resolutions proposed at the 2014 AGM will be decided on a poll and the voting results will be published via RNS and the SEC, and will also be available on the Groups website.
11 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Corporate governanCe CONTINUED The non-executive directors will also meet appropriate.
In recognition of the increasing training with the Chairman outside Board meetings importance of Asia as both a market and Board members receive guidance on the on a more frequent basis to discuss any issues an engineering base, the President of ARM regulatory regimes and corporate governance and concerns, which will provide opportunities Greater China, who is based in China, was framework that the Group operates under.
for greater sharing of views and understanding appointed as an Executive Committee In particular, during 2013 the Board received without impacting on the business of Board observer on 1 January 2014 and now attends an update from the Company Secretary on meetings themselves.
An internally facilitated all meetings.
current governance topics including executive Board evaluation will take place during 2014 remuneration and Board diversity.
The Group Biographies of the members of the Executive and the Board intends to continue with a cycle has a commitment to training and all directors, Committee appear on the Groups website at of external evaluations every three years with executive or non-executive, are encouraged www.
to attend suitable training courses at the management structure induction Groups expense.
The Group has a traditional UK Board A personalised induction programme is terms of reference structure with a unitary Board comprising arranged for new directors, tailored to their the Chairman, executive and non-executive The terms of reference of the Audit, specific requirements, the aim of which is to directors.
The Audit and Remuneration Remuneration and Nomination Committees introduce them to key executives across the Committees are made up of independent are published on the Groups website at business and to enhance their knowledge and non-executive directors and they, together www.
understanding of the Group and its activities.
with the Nomination Committee, report to In 2013, this included continuation of the executive Committee the Board.
The divisions and functions report programme for Sir John Buchanan and a new The Executive Committee is responsible for to the Executive Committee.
The Risk Review programme, which will continue during 2014, developing and implementing the strategy Committee reports periodically to the for Eric Meurice who joined the Board in July approved by the Board.
In particular, the Executive Committee, Audit Committee and 2013.
An induction programme is underway Committee is responsible for ensuring the Board.
The VP Business Assurance Head for Stuart Chambers, who was appointed that the Groups budget and forecasts are of Internal Audit also has a separate reporting to the Board on 27 January 2014 and took properly prepared, that targets are met, and line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
over the Chairman role on 1 March 2014. for generally managing and developing the During the first three months this will include business within the overall budget.
In addition, several days with the Chief Executive Officer the Committee ensures that risks identified in Silicon Valley to see the Groups operations through the Operational Planning process, and meet senior executives based there, in particularly corporate-level risks, are managed addition to a series of individual meetings and mitigated to the greatest extent possible.
with Board members, senior executives and external advisers based in the UK.
Variations from the budget and changes in strategy require approval from the main Board All members of the Board are encouraged of the Group.
The Executive Committee, to spend time outside Board meetings with which meets monthly, now comprises the members of the Executive Committee Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial and senior management and a number of Officer, the Chief Technology Officer, individual meetings took place during 2013, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief which will continue during 2014.
All Board Information Officer, the EVP and President members are invited to attend the annual Product Groups, the EVP and President of ARM Partner Meeting in the UK, which Commercial and Global Development, the is the Groups key customer event of the EVP Strategy, the EVP and General Manager year and or the ARM TechCon in the US.
Physical Design Group, the General Manager Board members are also invited to attend the of the Internet of Things business unit, the annual Analyst and Investor Day.
These events Chief Marketing Officer, the EVP People, the offer the opportunity to understand more General Counsel and the Company Secretary.
about the business, products, technology Executive Committee meetings are attended development roadmap, customer base and by other senior operational personnel, as investor perspective.
12 Governance Financial Report management struCture Remuneration Committee Holdings Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Disclosure Committee Board Executive Committee Corporate Business Travel Operations Risk Compliance Responsibility Assurance Policy Committee Committee Review Committee Committee Committee Internal Audit Energy Use and Climate Change IT Committee Committee Committees Operations Management Customer Corporate Product Business Sales Review Team System Team Satisfaction Team Approval Team Review Meeting Commission Meeting Security Health, Safety and Business KPI Financial Review Team Environment Team Continuity Team SignOff Meeting governance review t eams operational review meetings 13 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 audit Committee KathLeen odonovan Committee Chairman The Chairman of the Audit Committee The Committees key objectives are to provide effective reports to the Board on how the Committee financial governance and to assist the Board in ensuring the has discharged its responsibilities.
integrity of the Groups financial reporting.
The Committee On 1 January 2014, Eric Meurice joined the oversees theexternal and internal audit processes, and reviews Committee and Larry Hirst stepped down as a member, on his appointment as Chairman the risk management framework, the effectiveness of the risk of the Remuneration Committee.
management processes, and thesystem of internal control.
Representatives of the Groups external TheCommittee will continue to evolve its activities in the light auditors have a private session with the ofguidance from regulators and prevailing economic conditions.
Committee at the start of each meeting, without other management being present.
The Chairman of the Committee also has separate meetings with the VP Business Committee composition and meeting Assurance Head of Internal Audit, the attendance during 2013 Chairman of the Risk Review Committee, theexternal auditors, the Chief Financial Name of director Position Meetings attended Officer and the VP Finance, ARM Group Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairman 6 6 during the year to discuss their ongoing work Larry Hirst Independent non-executive director 5 6 and any areas of concern, and also to invite certain members of management to report Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director 6 6 on key areas of risk and control.
Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director 6 6 During 2013, the Chairman of the Kathleen ODonovan has chaired the VP Finance, ARM Group, the VP Business Committeeand the external audit partner Committee since January 2011.
She is Assurance Head of Internal Audit, the Head again organised a meeting for the UK-based qualified as the Committee financial expert of Tax, and the Company Secretary attend  LLP audit and as defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 all meetings in order to ensure that all the tax teams and the ARM finance and tax US.
Philip Rowley is also qualified to fulfil this information required by the Committee for it teams to discuss the audit approach, and to role.
Both have recent and relevant financial to operate effectively is available.
The Group understand the planning for the year end, and expertise in compliance with the Code Chairman and other Board members also to gain insights into the corporate governance provision C3.1.
The external auditors, Chief attend Committee meetings from time to time.
environment and the Groups expectations Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the from the internal and external audit processes.
14 Governance Financial Report In line with the requirement in the UK financial reporting judgements: considering and approving the assumptions Corporate Governance Code applicable Each quarter, the Committee reviewed in the annual goodwill impairment review, to financial years commencing on or after accounting papers prepared by management prior to approval by the full Board.
1 October 2012, based on both internal and on areas of financial reporting judgement external audit reviews and confirmations from reviewing the status of Sarbanes-Oxley and matters giving rise to exceptional items.
management, the Committee and the Board compliance and testing.
These included: believe that the Annual Report taken asa considering any whistleblowing reports of whole is fair, balanced and understandable Consideration of the accounting treatment which there were none in 2013. and provides the information necessary of substantial transactions, including any for shareholders to assess the Companys judgemental matters in relation to revenue implementing our policy on the performance, business model and strategy.
recognition for major licence contracts engagement of the external auditors to with customers.
supply non-audit services and assessing principal activities of the Committee their nature, extent and cost effectiveness.
during 2013: Consideration of the judgements surrounding the goodwill impairment assessing the external auditors in conjunction with management and the review performed in the fourth quarter independence and objectivity, the Risk Review Committee, the Committee of2013.
In light of the strong performance effectiveness of the audit process and fees.
undertook an in-depth review of the of the Physical IP Division business in Groups risk assessment and reporting undertaking an assessment of the the year and a robust order backlog, framework, with assistance and guidance effectiveness of the Committee which the Committee was comfortable with from external advisers.
This work has took place early in 2014 and concluded managements assessment that no resulted in the development of a new that its performance was effective.
reasonable variation in key assumptions format for the Corporate Risk Register, would affect the conclusion that no monitoring the integrity of the financial Risk Assurance Matrix and Risk Heatmap.
impairment in carrying value was required.
statements of the Group and any formal These documents are expected to continue In reaching this conclusion, the Committee announcements relating to the Groups to evolve during 2014, with feedback from considered the detailed work and sensitivity financial performance and reviewing any the Board being provided through the analyses presented by the external auditors.
significant financial reporting judgements ongoing risk appetite discussions.
and the clarity of disclosures.
In connection with the Groups participation reviewing a detailed response from in a consortium of technology companies reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups management to the questions raised by that acquired rights to MIPS Technologies internal controls over financial reporting.
the Conduct Committee of the Financial Incs portfolio of patents in February Reporting Council on the Annual Report 2013, consideration of the impairment providing oversight of the Groups risk for the year ended 31 December 2012. of the value of $100.5 million, which was management framework and process.
The Groups response was accepted with classified as an available-for-sale AFS no further questions being raised.
We have making recommendations to the Board in financial asset.
In Q4 2013, the trust made included certain additional disclosures relation to the appointment, remuneration a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing relating to goodwill impairment testing in and resignation or dismissal of the Groups programme, which resulted in a decision this Annual Report.
that the asset had been impaired, giving rise to a non-cash exceptional charge of reviewing the work and results of Business considering compliance with legal 59.5 million.
The Committee reviewed Assurance and Internal Audit in relation requirements, accounting standards, the the situation in detail and concurred with to the 2013 Audit Plan and approving the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct managements view that this impairment Audit Plan for the 2014 year.
Authority and the requirements of the SEC.
More details are contained reviewing the 2013 external audit innote 6 on page 85. monitoring the assessment of going plans and reports, including those of concern, in advance of its consideration Consideration of managements overseas subsidiaries.
judgement of the level of provision required to be carried in relation to ongoing litigation involving either the Group or its licensees, and in particular where the Group may be required to indemnify its licensees, including receiving regular updates from the Groups General Counsel.
15 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 audit Committee CONTINUED In addition to the private meetings held with of the audit partner, the Committee is satisfied Consideration of the key judgements the external auditors and the Committee, that the auditors procedures are sufficient to made in estimating the Groups tax charge the Chairman of the Committee meets with maintain their independence and objectivity.
and review of any tax provisions in respect thePwC team on a regular basis to provide The Committee has also considered the level of open areas, together with assessment the opportunity for an open communication of non-audit fees and believes that these are from independent experts.
regarding any concerns, aswell as to at a level which does not compromise their understand their assessment ofkey objectivity or independence in any way.
Consideration of the Groups tax strategy judgements as they arise.
and key developments that may influence There are no contractual obligations the Groups global tax position.
auditor effectiveness and restricting the Groups choice of external partnerrotation auditor.
The Committee also keeps under internal audit review the value for money of the audit.
 LLP have been the The Committee noted further improvements Groups auditors since it listed on the London in the development and effectiveness of the policy on auditors providing Stock Exchange in April 1998.
The external Business Assurance Internal Audit function non-audit services auditors are required to rotate the audit in 2013.
In particular, the Audit Assurance To avoid the possibility of the auditors partner responsible for the Group and System AAS deployed during 2012 to objectivity and independence being subsidiary audits every fifth year-end.
The last provide improved document control, risk compromised, there is an agreed policy in audit partner rotation took place early in 2012. assessment and reporting, was reviewed place on the provision of non-audit services The Committee considers that the relationship in 2013.
Further improvements to the by the auditors, which sets out arrangements with the auditors is working well and remains AAS are underway and are expected to for approving: satisfied with their objectivity and effectiveness.
We reviewed the resources of the team and the plans for services that require general pre-approval This view is supported by a review of the their deployment during the year.
We also by the Committee: effectiveness of the external audit process, noted the key relationships between the which was undertaken early in 2014 with services that require specific preAssurance team and the Compliance and Board members and senior managers who approval by the Committee before Risk Review functions, as well as the working interact with the auditors.
It looked at the work commences: relationship with the external auditors robustness of the audit, and the quality of  LLP PwC and delivery, people and service, and concluded services that cannot be provided by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance.
that the auditors are effective.
the Committee has not considered it As well as the Committees formal meeting necessary to date to require the firm to This non-audit services policy is reviewed with the VP Business Assurance Internal tender for the audit work.
The Groups tax advisory work Audit, the Chairman of the Committee meets be kept under regular review.
The Committee is carried out by the auditors only in cases him informally throughout the year in order to is actively monitoring the developments where they are deemed to be best suited provide the opportunity for open and timely and ongoing discussions in this area at the to perform the work in a cost-effective dialogue.
Typically we discuss the content and Financial Reporting Council, the EU and the manner, given their familiarity with the quality of papers intended for the Committee, Competition Commission.
In other cases, the Group emerging business risks, the quality of has engaged another independent firm of engagement with IA and any concerns therein.
auditor independence accountants to perform tax advisory work.
The auditors are required to and do audit plan and approach The Group does not normally award general communicate with the Committee at least consulting work to the auditors.
From time During the year we reviewed PwCs audit annually as to whether there are any threats to time, however, the Group will engage strategy, and the audit approach, key areas to their independence and objectivity and, the auditors to perform work on matters of focus and audit plan produced as a result.
if there are, what safeguards have been relating to benchmarking of the internal audit PwC explained their risk-based approach, applied.
The Committee has also reviewed function, human resources, and royalty audits.
including the interaction with their work on the auditors Transparency report, paying A breakdown of fees paid to the auditors can internal control for the purposes of expressing particular attention to the sections covering be found in note 5 to the financial statements.
an opinion under section 404 of the Sarbanesinternal controls, independence policies and Oxley Act.
The results of those procedures the results of external regulator reviews.
were reported in January and February Kathleen odonovan Having reviewed the safeguards in place, and 2014.
No material misstatements remained Committee Chairman the contents of the Transparency report, as unadjusted in the financial statements.
5 March 2014 well as noting the regular and recent rotation 16 Governance Financial Report nomination Committee sir John BuChanan Nomination Committee Chairman until 1 March 2014 As announced on 27 January 2014 it is with The Committees key task in 2013 was the selection of a much regret that Istepped down as Chairman newChief Executive Officer, which resulted in the promotion on 1 March 2014, and will be retiring from the Board at the AGM on 1 May 2014 due to a of Simon Segars to the role on 1 July 2013.
The Committee, led for this anextensive externally conducted review of candidates purpose by the Senior Independent Director, worldwide, and Simons proven technology expertise and was active in 2013 and early 2014 in finalising arrangements for the appointment of a new management skills across a range of senior executive roles Chairman and we were delighted to welcome resulted in him being selected.
The Committee also identified Stuart Chambers who joined the Group on 27 January 2014 as Chairman Designate and and appointed Eric Meurice, who has significant experience took over as Chairman on 1 March 2014. inthe semiconductor industry, to the Board on 1 July 2013 The Committee, now chaired by Stuart asan additional independent non-executive director.
Again, Chambers, continues to focus on defining thisappointment followed an extensive externally conducted the skills and attributes required for future non-executive director appointments to ensure review of candidates.
that the Board comprises individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its duties.
17 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 nomination Committee CONTINUED Nomination Committee composition and meeting attendance during 2013 Name of director Position Meetings attended Sir John Buchanan Chairman 3 3 Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent Director 4 4 Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director 4 4 Andy Green Independent non-executive director appointed 21 February 2013 3 3 During the year, the activities of the Andy Green joined the Committee in February Committee included engaging external search 2013.
His business and skills background firms to seek and introduce candidates and contributed valuable experience to our work.
interviewing a number of candidates in each In addition to leading the process for Board case for the following roles: appointments and making recommendations to the Board in relation to new appointments, the Chief Executive Officer CEO, which Committees general responsibilities include: resulted in the Committee recommending the appointment of Simon Segars.
reviewing succession planning, Board Chairman, which resulted in the composition and balance: Committee recommending the considering the roles and capabilities appointment of Stuart Chambers.
required for each new appointment, based Independent non-executive director, which on an evaluation of the skill, experience, resulted in the Committee recommending independence and knowledge of the the appointment of Eric Meurice.
The Chairman led the process for the The Nomination Committee is seeking appointment of the new CEO and the further candidates as independent nonnew independent non-executive director.
executive directors with appropriate skills, Kathleen ODonovan, in her capacity as experience and diversity to complement the Senior Independent Director, led the our existing Board members and maintain, process for the appointment of the new collectively, an effective Board.
We will also Chairman, chairing relevant meetings of be looking for financial expertise, in light of the Nomination Committee and a number the forthcoming retirement of Philip Rowley of conference calls between Committee in May 2014, following his nineyears service members.
The recruitment process involved on the Board.
a review by the Board of all aspects of the role of Chairman, its requirements, sir John Buchanan Board dynamics and how best the new Chairman until 1 March 2014 Chairman should interact with the Board, 5 March 2014 the Executive Committee, shareholders and other stakeholders.
The external search firms were Zygos in the case of the Chairman recruitment and Egon Zehnder in relation to the CEO and nonexecutive director recruitments.
There is no connection between the Group, any individual director, nor either of the search firms.
18 Governance Financial Report Corporate governanCe report internal control risk management The Board has reviewed and approved the the effective and efficient operation of system of internal control, including internal The Group fully complies with the UK the Group and its divisions by enabling controls over the consolidation process Corporate Governance Code September management to respond appropriately to and financial reporting, which have been in 2012 s provisions on internal control, having significant risks to achieving the Groups place for the year under review and up to established procedures to implement in full business objectives: the date of approval of the Annual Report the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: the safeguarding of assets from and financial statements.
These controls Revised Guidance for Directors on the inappropriate use or from loss and fraud, consist of extensive reviews by qualified and Combined Code.
The Groups risks are and ensuring that liabilities are identified experienced individuals, underpinned by a managed within a systematic process of risk and managed: system of checklists which ensures that all identification and assessment.
The detailed elements of the financial statements and risk management process is explained in the the quality of internal and appropriate disclosures are considered and Risk management and principal risks section external reporting: accurately stated.
on pages 47 to 49 of the Strategic Report.
compliance with applicable laws and Control systems are designed to manage The Audit Committee is responsible for regulations and with internal policies on the rather than eliminate the risks inherent in a ensuring that the risk management framework conduct of the Groups business: and fast-moving, high-technology business and and process is operating effectively.
The Risk can, therefore, provide only reasonable Review Committee reviews the Corporate the ability to recover in a timely manner and not absolute assurance against material Risk Register CRR, Risk Assurance Matrix from the effects of disasters or major misstatement or loss.
RAM, and risk heatmap on a quarterly basis, accidents that originate outside the and minutes of its meetings are reviewed Groups direct control.
remuneration Committee by the Audit Committee.
The Executive A description of the composition, Compliance with section 404 of the Committee and the Board also review responsibilities and operation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US has been these documents at least twice each year.
Remuneration Committee is set out in the successfully achieved for each financial year The Board confirms that the necessary actions Remuneration report.
since it became effective for foreign private have been or are being taken to remedy any issuers in 2006.
This is reported on in more significant failings or weaknesses identified The Group has a number of other detail in the annual report on Form 20-F from this process inatimely manner.
Committees and bodies that contribute to the that is filed with the SEC.
The processes and overall control environment.
These include: The Board has overall responsibility for procedures for identifying, evaluating and ensuring that the Group maintains an managing the significant business, operational, risk review Committee adequate system of internal control and financial, compliance and other risks facing The Risk Review Committee comprises the risk management, and for reviewing its the Group have been successfully integrated Chief Technology Officer, the Chief Financial effectiveness, while implementation of into day-to-day business operations through Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the internal control systems is the responsibility our internal control system.
This is known as VP Finance, ARM Group, the VP Business ofmanagement.
The Group has implemented the ARM Management System AMS and is Assurance Head of Internal Audit and the an internal control system designed to proven to provide a sustainable solution for Company Secretary.
The Groups process help ensure: ongoing compliance.
for the identification, ownership, mitigation and reporting of risk was enhanced further The AMS, which covers financial, compliance during 2013.
The Committee established and operational controls, is fully documented a CRR some years ago, which summarises and compliance is monitored through the key risks faced by the Group and sets periodic controls testing during each year.
out risk management activities, the sources The effectiveness ofindividual controls is of assurance and action plans to mitigate also reviewed with their owners within the any significant residual risk.
Residual risks are divisions and functions to ensure efficacy and assessed in terms of likelihood and impact relevance.
The Business Assurance function and mapped onto the RAM.
Each risk on reports on the status of the AMS to the the CRR is owned by a member of the Audit Committee at least twice each year.
Risk management The Compliance and Audit Committees action plans are managed within the relevant also monitor the satisfactory remediation operational plans of the divisions and of any identified control issues with Groupcorporate functions.
19 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Corporate governanCe report CONTINUED During 2013, the Committee, in conjunction The Committee reports formally on the Business Review Meeting chaired by the Chief with management, undertook an in-depth CRR to the Executive Committee twice Operating Officer, the purpose of which review of our risk assessment and reporting a year, where its findings are considered is to monitor and control all main business framework, with assistance and guidance from and challenged.
activities, revenue forecasts and other matters external advisers.
The work has resulted in requiring approval.
Through this structure More information on industry trends and the development of a new format for the management reviews with representatives associated risks and opportunities are CRR, RAM and risk heatmap with a better from the divisions and functions revenues, included in the Risk management and principal focus on strategic risks.
These documents are orders booked, costs, product and project risks section of the Strategic Report on pages expected to continue to evolve during 2014 delivery dates, and levels of defects found in 47 to 49 and in the annual report on Form with feedback from the Board being provided products in development.
Relevant issues are 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2013 through our ongoing risk appetite discussions.
escalated to the Executive Committee which, which is available on the Groups website at in turn, raises relevant issues to the Board of The CRR and risk heatmap are normally www.
considered in detail by the Board in January The seven Governance Review Teams and Compliance Committee each year and, at the January 2014 review, the three Operational Review meetings all report The Compliance Committee consists of Board confirmed that the level of residual risk to the Operations Committee, which in turn the General Counsel, the Chief Operating is regarded as acceptable and within normal reports to the Executive Committee.
Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the EVP, parameters for a company operating in ARMs People, the VP Business Assurance Head sphere of business.
Risk appetite and a draft internal audit function of Internal Audit, the Chief Information set of guiding principles were also discussed The Group has an internal audit function that Officer, the VP Operations and the Company by the Board in January 2014.
It was agreed meets the criteria set out in the key practice Secretary.
It oversees compliance throughout that the draft guiding principles are a good standards prescribed by the Institute of the business with all relevant international starting point to inform and serve as a context Internal Auditors.
The internal audit function regulations, export controls, trading for the development and implementation of undertook a range of financial and operational requirements and standards: including direct the Groups strategy.
The guiding principles audits in line with the plan agreed with the oversight of financial, employment, health and will continue to be refined during 2014.
Additional resource safety, environmental, business continuity and was provided by co-sourcing arrangements The Risk Review Committee reports to security processes and policies.
in2013 and this will continue in 2014. the Audit Committee throughout the disclosure Committee year.
The Board and the Audit Committee The Group successfully achieved certificate receive copies of the minutes of Risk Review The Disclosure Committee comprises the renewal for ISO 9001 in December 2013.
Committee meetings, the CRR and the risk Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial The Group also has certification for heatmap.
These provide greater visibility of Officer, the VP Finance, ARM Group, the ISO27001, the international standard for the range of risks, the ways in which such risks General Counsel, the VP Investor Relations Information Security Management and for are mitigated, and an assessment of the level and the Company Secretary.
It is responsible ISO22301, the international standard for and acceptability of residual risk.
It is intended for ensuring that disclosures made by the Business Continuity Management, both of that the Board will review changes to the CRR Group to its shareholders and the investment which were maintained throughout the year.
and risk heatmap quarterly during 2014. community are accurate, complete and fairly present the Groups financial condition in all The Groups Management System documents The Risk Review Committee typically meets material respects.
processes and responsibilities across all on a quarterly basis to review the CRR business functions and operations.
As an and identify other risks that need to be management structure autonomous part of this system, the internal incorporated.
Each risk owner is required In addition, there are various Committees, audit function carries out a programme of to review and demonstrate that residual Governance Review Teams and Operational audits to assess its effectiveness and efficiency, risks are being appropriately mitigated via Review meetings that span the Group, as resulting in continuous maintenance and the operational plans.
The divisions and shown in the management structure chart on improvement of the system, adapting to corporate functions operational plans are page 13.
These include the regular Executive changes in business operations as necessary.
Changes that could impact Committee meetings chaired by the Chief the CRR are reviewed by the Committee.
Executive Officer and the weekly 20 Governance Financial Report To demonstrate compliance with the anti-bribery and anti-corruption The Group strives for equal opportunities for Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the internal audit measures all its employees and does not tolerate any function also maintains the documented harassment of, or discrimination against, its The Groups Code of Business Conduct controls over financial reporting and confirms staff.
The Group endeavours to be honest and Ethics, which is available on the Groups the operation of them either by direct testing and fair in its relationships with its customers website, and the Company Rules incorporate or through a monitored self assessment and suppliers and to be a good corporate appropriate provisions to meet our programme.
The management system citizen, respecting the laws of the countries in obligations under the UK Bribery Act 2010. is audited externally by Lloyds Register which it operates.
A training and communication programme is Quality Assurance for compliance with in place to ensure that employees understand university programme the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, ISO the requirements of the Act and the reporting The ARM University Programme AUP 27001:2005, ISO 22301:2012 and as part of procedures.
This is targeted at employees is an important initiative for the future its Business Assurance scheme supports the in roles or working in countries that are of the Group and our relationships with Sarbanes-Oxley compliance activity.
The programme engages Any significant control failings identified Arrangements with contractors and suppliers with professors, researchers and students through the internal audit function or the have been and will continue to be reviewed worldwide using various channels, including external auditors are brought to the attention and updated to reflect the requirements higher education institutions, government of the Compliance Committee and undergo of the Act.
The Compliance Committee agencies and ARMs business Partners.
a detailed process of evaluation of both oversees the reporting procedures and The aim of the AUP is to develop the the failing and the steps taken to remedy it.
monitors and escalates reports in appropriate next generation of engineers for the ARM There is then a process for communication circumstances.
There were no reports of ecosystem, and 2013 saw the building of firm of any significant control failures to the Audit concern during 2013 or up to 3 March 2014, foundations to achieve this aim.
There were no significant control being the latest practicable date before the and plan have been put in place to increase failures during 2013 or up to 3 March 2014, printing of this report.
the reach of the Group and its Partners being the latest practicable date before the human rights and equal opportunities into academia worldwide and to scale up printing of this report.
AUP operations using strategic partnerships, The Group has signed the Universal whistleblowing procedures streamlined processes and procedures.
Declaration of Human Rights and has The Group operates a whistleblowing policy These include the AUP flagship Lab-in-aintegrated relevant human rights principles for employees to report concerns about Box LiB product which is now shipping.
into its policies for employees and contractors.
any unethical business practices to senior This allows educators to use state-of-the-art There is growing interest worldwide in the management in strict confidence and without ARM and ARM Partners technologies in their issue of the impact of business on human fear of recrimination.
If they prefer, they can courses and laboratories.
LiB, which is free of rights.
Reflecting this, during 2013 the Group do so anonymously through an independent charge, includes both hardware and software worked with Shift, a specialist NGO working third-party telephone line.
The third-party and comprehensive teaching materials.
on business and human rights, to understand telephone line is tested regularly to ensure more about this agenda and its key guidelines, 2013 saw the AUP sign up seven Partners: that employees can use it if they have the UN Guiding Framework on Business and Freescale, ST, NXP, Nuvoton, Cypress, occasion to.
The Audit Committee receives Human Rights.
EnergyMicro SiLabs and Xilinx for joint details of any such confidential reports from university engagements and LiB hardware As a result of our work with Shift, we are the Compliance Committee.
In this time the AUP also doubled confident that our risk in this area is low.
In 2014, there its reach to universities as a result of the We have adopted a specific Human Rights has been one whistleblowing report, which is above activities, with particularly high growth Policy within our Code of Business Conduct currently under investigation.
Further partnerships in and Ethics, in addition to our existing education and research are being explored in policies on conflict minerals, business ethics, 2014 to enable the AUP to increase its reach discrimination and export controls.
policy underlines our commitment to trying to avoid any adverse impact on human rights The Group and our Partners are seeing the in the way we conduct our operations, and benefits of the AUP, as students graduate designates contact points within the senior with experience in designing with ARM executive team for any employee to seek products and as university engineering advice on any issue that might have human departments base their own research around rights implications.
21 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Corporate governanCe report CONTINUED environmental, social, corporate The Groups ongoing environmental impact being developed with these partners and governance and ethical policies analysis informs management about key will be extended to other key sites and new environmental factors and how it can reduce build projects.
The Group continued to While the Group is accountable to its the impacts associated with them.
In 2013 enhance its environmental data collection and shareholders, it also endeavours to take into the Groups advanced compute resource reporting ability during 2013 to support the account the interests of all its stakeholders, requirement continued to build upon the work of our Energy Use and Climate Change including employees, customers and suppliers success of its CEEDA Gold Certified Energy Committee EUCCC.
This is an Executiveand the local communities and environments Efficient Data Centre Award winning data sponsored steering group that directs activity in which it operates.
The Chief Executive centre in Cambridge by commissioning the relating to environmental stewardship and the Officer and the Chief Financial Officer take design and build of a second major data management of our environmental aspects.
responsibility for these matters, which are centre hub in Austin, Texas.
This installation considered at Board level.
The Groups environmental policy is published has the potential to harness geothermal on our website within the CR report.
In line Full details of our CR strategy and energy as part of its design and therefore with the Companies Act 2006, the articles achievements can be found in the main could have a Power Usage Effectiveness PUE of association enable the Group to send CR report on our website www.
arm rating some 25% lower than typical data information to shareholders electronically reporting2013 and a summary of highlights centres in this region.
We have piloted new and make documents available through the from the year are included in the Sustainability build techniques for this project as part of a website rather than in hard copy, which section of the Strategic Report on page 44. programme to ensure minimal environmental provides both environmental and cost impact in our data centre strategy.
The Group regularly monitors employees benefits.
Shareholders can opt to continue awareness of Group policies and procedures, receiving a printed copy of the annual report, In 2013 ARM opened a new 120,000 including its conduct and ethical policies.
sq ft office in Bangalore, which attained Employees and temporary contractors Leadership in Energy and Environmental health and safety reconfirm their understanding of key policies Design LEED Gold Accreditation.
each year to help reinforce awareness.
The Group operates in an industry and in This accreditation recognises buildings for environments which are considered low high environmental performance in their The Group operates from a global risk from a health and safety perspective.
ARM aims to portfolio of offices located in 15 countries.
However, the safety and welfare of meet the same LEED accreditation or the The portfolio is made up entirely of offices employees, contractors and visitors is a equivalent Building Research Establishment since the Group has no manufacturing priority in all Group workplaces worldwide.
As such there are no hazardous The Group continues to improve its BREEAM performance in all new office substances nor complex waste streams to be management systems in this area with an audit construction as demonstrated in the design managed as part of our business operations.
programme that includes external auditing of briefs of other office expansions developed The Groups principal activity involves the processes and offices.
These building standards ensure use of IT-based engineering tools to create high environmental performance of the intellectual property.
With the exception of More detail about the Groups approach to Groups built environment throughout its development systems products, the majority environmental matters and health and safety entire lifecycle.
of products sold by the Group comprise isincluded in the CR report.
microprocessor core and physical IP designs The Group has continued to partner with Business model that are delivered electronically to customers.
companies working in the low-impact building A detailed description of ARMs business technology field.
We have test installations model is set out on pages 16 to 17 of the in place with Intellisense, Enlight and Alert Strategic Report.
Me in our Cambridge offices to improve environmental performance using energyBy order of the Board efficient ARM technology.
Areas such as lighting control and environmental monitoring patricia alsop of plant for improved building efficiency are Company Secretary 22 Governance Financial Report direCtors report additionaL statutory informa tion The directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The following additional disclosures are made in compliance with the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2012. description of operations, principal future developments supported by a sensitivity analysis and stress activities and review of business tests undertaken at the year end which The Groups stated objective is to establish showed that some extreme assumptions The principal operations and activities of the a global standard for its RISC architecture, would have to be made before there is a Group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, physical IP and other products in the negative impact.
marketing, research and development of embedded microprocessor and semiconductor RISC-based microprocessors, fabric system IP, markets.
The directors believe that, in order to dividends graphics processors, physical IP and associated achieve this goal, it is important to expand the The directors recommend payment of systems IP, software and tools.
The nature number and range of potential customers for a final dividend in respect of the year to of the global semiconductor industry is such its technology.
31 December 2013 of 3.6 pence per share that most of the Groups business originates The Group intends to enter into licence which, subject to approval at the AGM on overseas and, to serve its customers better, agreements with new customers and to 1 May 2014, will be paid on 16 May 2014 the Group has sales offices around the world.
increase the range of new technology to shareholders on the register on 22 April These include eight offices in the US and supplied to existing customers.
This final dividend, combined with the offices in Shanghai, Shenzhen and Beijing, PR Relationships will continue to be established interim dividend of 2.1 pence per share paid in China: Shin-Yokohama, Japan: Seoul, South with third-party tools and software vendors October 2013, makes a total of 5.7 pence per Korea: Taipei, Taiwan: Kfar Saba, Israel: Paris, to ensure that their products will operate share for the year, an increase of 27% on the France: Grasbrunn, Germany and Bangalore, with the Groups products.
As a result of its total dividend of 4.5 pence per share for 2012.
Design offices are based in Cambridge, position in the semiconductor industry, the The total cost of dividends paid or to be paid Sheffield and Blackburn, UK: Sophia Antipolis Group is presented with many opportunities in respect of the year to 31 December 2013 and Grenoble, France: Grasbrunn, Germany: to acquire complementary technology or isapproximately 80 million.
Trondheim, Norway: Sentjernej, Slovenia: resources and it intends to continue to make Lund, Sweden: Oulu, Finland: Austin, Texas: share buyback programme appropriate investments and acquisitions from Olympia, Washington and San Jose, California No share buybacks were undertaken in 2013 time to time.
in the US: Shanghai, PR China: Hsinchu, and no shares have been re-purchased to Taiwan and Bangalore, India.
The rolling authority to buy back After dividend payments of 68.9 million the shares given by the shareholders at the AGM More information about the business, its highly cash generative nature of the business in May 2013 remains in place and a resolution operations and key performance indicators enabled the Group to increase its cash, cash to authorise the directors to make purchases is set out in Overview Marketplace sections equivalents and deposits to 706.3 million in appropriate circumstances will be proposed on pages 14 to 15, the Financial review net of accrued interest of 7.2 million at the 2014 AGM.
In addition to our policy of incorporating a section on Risk management at the end of 2013.
This was an increase increasing the dividend through the economic on pages 47 to 57, and the Sustainability from 520.2 million net of accrued interest cycles, the Group intends to commence a summary on pages 44 to 46.
The Groups of 7.4 million at the start of the year.
limited share buyback programme in 2014 statement on corporate governance can be After reviewing the 2014 budget and longerin order to maintain the issued share capital found in the Corporate governance report term plans and considering any reasonably at a constant level in future.
The issued on pages 6 to 22 of this Governance and likely scenarios that may occur, the directors share capital at 31 December 2013 was Financial Report.
The Risk management are satisfied that, at the time of approving 1,400,263,804 shares, broadly the same level section of the Financial review and the the financial statements, it is appropriate to as in July 2005 when the Board initiated the Corporate governance report form part of adopt the going concern basis in preparing ongoing share buyback programme under this section and are incorporated into it by the financial statements of both the Group which purchases were made until the end cross reference.
23 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors report CONTINUED research and development r&d donations global green house gas emissions Development of IP is at the heart of the During the year the Group made donations Methodology Groups activities and 69% of the Groups for charitable purposes as follows: Our report covers emissions within workforce is employed in engineering operations that fall under the Groups financial 2013 2012 activities.
Within this, R&D is of major control.
As such data used represents our 000 000 importance and, as part of its research global operations with regional conversion Promotion of education 362.3 142.0 activities, the Group collaborates closely factors applied as required.
with universities worldwide and plans to Relief of poverty 55.2 55.3 Our emission factors are from Defra DECC continue its successful engagement with Other 50.3 37.3 GHG Conversion Factors for Company Michigan University.
Our environmental impact Key areas of product development for 2014 Local charities 67.8 14.0 assessment of ARMs operations includes include the development of further energyenergy use and air travel as our material Environmental 89.9 1.7 efficient, high-performance processors, such CO e contributors.
We have excluded non 2 total 687.9 276.8 as ARM cores based on symmetric multicore material emissions related to refrigerant losses and superscalar technology.
in air conditioning systems, motor cars and ARMs investment of 2.5 million in an waste streams.
The Group is investing in future physical IP interest-free charitable bond in Future development including system IP and software Business, made in 2010, remains in place.
Further detail on our emissions and the and low-power, low-leakage technologies for Future Business is a Cambridge-based social Groups management of those emissions a range of chip manufacturing processes, to enterprise, which provides business advice, can be found in our Carbon Disclosure ensure leadership in this market.
In addition, coaching and affordable workspace to Project Submissions.
the Group will continue to develop and entrepreneurs, start-up businesses, charities Reported Emissions 2013 2012 deliver tools, graphics processors and system and voluntary organisations.
IP to enable its customers to design and scope 1 and 2 emissions ARM employees are encouraged to offer programme SoCs.
Combustion of Fuel, Operation their time and expertise to help charities and of Facilities and Electricity The Group incurred R&D expenses of other groups in need.
The Group operates and Cooling Purchased 202.9 million in 2013, representing 28% of a Matching Gift Donation programme tonnes CO e 11,067 10,547 2 revenues, compared with 166.3 million in for individual employees fundraising CO e Intensity Tonnes CO e 2 2 2012, representing 29% of revenues.
The Group does not make any per Employee 3.37 3.82 expenses have been charged in full to the political donations.
scope 3 emissions income statement since the requirements for More details of the Groups charitable work Business Travel Tonnes CO e 10,186 10,112 capitalisation were not met.
The requirements 2 and fundraising activities can be found in the for capitalisation are considered in more detail Corporate Responsibility report available in note 1 to the financial statements.
on the Groups website at www.
24 Governance Financial Report directors in the year re-election of directors share capital The following served as directors of As previously announced, Sir John Buchanan At 31 December 2013, ARMs share the Company during the year ended stepped down as Chairman on 1 March capital comprised a single class of ordinary 31 December 2013: 2014 and will retire from the Board at the shares of 0.05 pence each and there were conclusion of the AGM on 1 May 2014.
1,400,263,804 ordinary shares in issue, none Sir John Buchanan Chairman Stuart Chambers joined the Board on of which were held in treasury 2012: no 27 January 2014 as Chairman designate shares held in treasury.
The rights attached Simon Segars Chief Executive Officer and became Chairman on 1 March 2014. to treasury shares are restricted in accordance He will be standing for election at the 2014 with the Companies Act.
Tim Score Chief Financial Officer AGM.
With the exception of Philip Rowley, The rights attached to ordinary shares are Mike Muller Chief Technology Officer who is retiring having served for nine years, as follows: and Sir John Buchanan, all of the other Andy Green independent nondirectors will be standing for re-election at executive director 1.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, the 2014 AGM.
In line with the provisions every shareholder present in person or, Larry Hirst CBE independent nonof the UK Corporate Governance Code inthe case of a corporation, present at the executive director 2010, all directors will present themselves meeting by way of a representative and for re-election annually if eligible unless entitled to vote shall have one vote and Eric Meurice independent non-executive thedirectors have agreed otherwise.
every proxy present who has been duly director appointed 1 July 2013 appointed by a shareholder entitled to See pages 4 to 5 for the biographies ofthe Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent voteon the resolution shall have one vote.
directors at the date of this report.
On a poll, every shareholder present in The interests of the directors in the Janice Roberts independent nonperson or in the case of a corporation, Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, executive director present at the meeting by way of a allof which were beneficially held, are representative or by proxy and entitled disclosed in the Remuneration report.
Philip Rowley independent non-executive tovote shall have one vote for every director and financial expert The directors have the benefit of directors ordinary share held.
Warren East former Chief Executive Officer 3.
Shareholders are entitled to a dividend retired 30 June 2013 appointment of directors where declared or paid out of profits available for such purposes.
ARM shareholders may by ordinary resolution Mike Inglis former Chief Commercial Officer appoint any person to be a director.
Shareholders are entitled to participate in must have not less than two and no more areturn of capital on a winding-up.
than 16 directors holding office at all times.
ARM may by ordinary resolution from time totime vary the minimum and or maximum number of directors.
The directors may appoint a director to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional director to hold office until the next AGM, who shall then be eligible for election.
25 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors report CONTINUED The notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for substantial shareholdings directors authority exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy The directors are aware of the following The directors are responsible for the or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions substantial interests in the issued share capital management of the business of ARM and to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes of the Company as at 3 March 2014: may exercise all powers of ARM subject to are counted and the numbers for, against or applicable legislation and regulation and the withheld in relation to each resolution are Percentage of issued articles of association.
ordinary share capital announced at the AGM and published on At the 2013 AGM, the directors were given ARMs website after the meeting.
Baillie Gifford & Co 5.05 authority to buy back a maximum number of Thornburg Investment There are no restrictions on the transfer of 139,650,000 ordinary shares at a minimum Management 5.01 ordinary shares in ARM other than: price of 0.05 pence each.
The maximum price Fidelity Management and Research was an amount equal to 105% of the average Corporation 4.92 restrictions that may from time to time of the closing mid-market prices of ARMs be imposed by laws and regulations for The Capital Group Companies, Inc 4.16 ordinary shares as derived from the London example, those relating to market abuse Janus Capital Management LLC 3.05 Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five and insider dealing : business days immediately preceding the day Save for the above, the Company has not on which such ordinary shares are contracted restrictions that may be imposed pursuant been notified, as at 3 March 2014, of any to be purchased.
This authority will expire to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services material interest of 3% or more or any nonat the earlier of the conclusion of the 2014 Authority under which certain employees material interest exceeding 10% of the issued AGM or 30 June 2014. of ARM require the approval of the share capital of the Company.
Company to deal in shares: Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed as articles of association a special resolution at the 2014 AGM to give restrictions on the transfer of shares that ARM authority to acquire up to 140,891,000 may be imposed under article 61.2 of ARMs articles of association may be amended ordinary shares following expiry of the ARMs articles of association or under only by a special resolution at a general meeting current authority.
The directors will use this Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, in of shareholders.
It is proposed that the articles authority only after careful consideration, either case following a failure to supply of association be amended at the AGM on taking into account market conditions information required to be disclosed 1 May 2014 to increase the aggregate limit prevailing at the time, other investment following service of a request under on ordinary remuneration payable to the opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and section 793 of the Companies Act 2006: non-executive directors from 0.5m to 1m.
the overall position of ARM.
In particular, This aggregate limit has not been increased restrictions on transfer of shares held this authority will be exercised only if the since 2007.
Further details are contained in the under certain of the Companys employee directors believe that it is in the best interests Circular and Notice of 2014 AGM.
share plans while they remain subject to of shareholders generally and will increase the plan.
26 Governance Financial Report Resolutions will also be proposed at the 2014 Qualifying indemnity provision employee involvement AGM to: Article 139 of the Companys articles of To help reach the best decision, and one association provides for the indemnification that the whole company can support, it authorise the directors generally to allot of directors of the Company against liability is important that we include the views of up to 232,470 in nominal amount of incurred by them in certain situations, and is those outside of the management team in ordinary shares: a qualifying indemnity provision within the the decision-making process.
To this end, meaning of section 236 of the Companies internal conferences and communications authorise the directors to allot up to a Act 2006. meetings involving employees from all further 232,470 in nominal amount of parts of the Group in discussions on future ordinary shares in connection with a rights The qualifying indemnity was in force during strategy and developments are held regularly.
issue as defined in the Notice of AGM : the financial year and up to the date of signing Furthermore, employee share ownership the annual report.
is encouraged and all employees are able authorise the directors to allot ordinary to participate in one of the Groups share shares or sell treasury shares for cash i Change of control ownership schemes.
The Group has an otherwise than in connection with a preAll of ARMs equity-based plans contain informal and delegated organisation structure.
emptive offer as defined in the Notice of provisions relating to a change of control.
It does not presently operate any collective AGM up to an aggregate nominal amount Outstanding awards and options would agreements with any trade unions.
of 35,222 or ii in connection with a prenormally vest and become exercisable on a emptive offer up to an aggregate nominal change of control, subject to the satisfaction Information about the Groups amount of 35,222, or iii in connection of any performance conditions at that time.
employees and policies are contained with a rights issue up to a further nominal in the Remuneration report, the Our amount of 35,222, in each case as if There are no significant agreements to which commitment section and the Corporate section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 ARM is a party that take effect, alter or Governance report.
Information about did not apply to such allotment or sale.
terminate upon a change of control.
environmental matters, social and community The period of authorisation will in each policies and their effectiveness is contained in diversity case expire at the earlier of the conclusion the Our commitment section and in the full The Group is committed to employment of the 2014 AGM or on 30 June 2014.
Corporate Responsibility report available on policies, which follow best practice, based our website.
on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of sex, race, colour, disability financial instruments or marital status.
The Group has a strong The Groups financial risk management and demand for highly qualified staff and policies and exposure to risks in relation to disability is not seen to be an inhibitor financial instruments are detailed in note 1c.
to employment or career development.
Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued employment and training, career development and promotion of disabled persons employed by the Group.
In the event of any staff becoming disabled while with the Group, their needs and abilities would be assessed and the Group would, where possible, seek to offer alternative employment to them if they were no longer able to continue in their current role.
27 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors report CONTINUED essential contracts by the European Union, and the parent the preparation and dissemination of financial Company financial statements in accordance statements.
Legislation in the UK governing There are no parties with whom the Group with United Kingdom Generally Accepted the preparation and dissemination of financial has contractual or other arrangements that Accounting Practice United Kingdom statements may differ from legislation in are essential to the business of the Group.
Accounting Standards and applicable law.
There is one company that accounted for Under company law the directors must Each of the directors, whose names and 12% of Group revenues in 2013 2012: 15%, not approve the financial statements unless functions are listed in the biographies on which is referred to in note 2 on page 80. they are satisfied that they give a true and pages 4 to 5, confirm that to the best fair view of the state of affairs of the Group annual general meeting agm oftheir knowledge: and the Company, and of the profit or loss The AGM will be held at 110 Fulbourn Road, of the Group for that period.
In preparing the Group financial statements, which have Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK, on 1 May 2014 these financial statements, the directors are been prepared in accordance with IFRSs at 2.00pm.
A presentation will be made at required to: as adopted by the EU, give a true and this meeting outlining recent developments fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial in the business.
All voting at the meeting select suitable accounting policies and then position and profit of the Group: will be conducted on a poll where every apply them consistently: shareholder present in person or by proxy this Directors report on pages 23 to make judgements and accounting estimates will have one vote for each share of which 28 and the Financial review and the Risk that are reasonable and prudent: they are the owner.
The Group will convey management sections on pages 47 to 49 the results of the poll on the website after state whether IFRSs as adopted by ofthe Strategic Report include a fair review the AGM.
Shareholders are invited to submit the European Union and applicable of the development and performance written questions in advance of the meeting.
UK Accounting Standards have been of the business and the position of the Questions should be sent to The Company followed, subject to any material Group, together with a description of Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn departures disclosed and explained in the principal risks and uncertainties that Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ, UK.
the Group and parent Company financial it faces.
statements respectively: A resolution to reappoint disclosure of information to auditors  LLP as auditors prepare the financial statements on the In the case of each director in office at the to the Group will be proposed at the AGM.
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate date the Directors report is approved, that: Details of other resolutions to be proposed to presume that the Company will continue at the meeting are set out in the Circular and in business.
a so far as the director is aware, there is Notice of AGM 2014, which will be made no relevant audit information of which the available to all shareholders together with a The directors are responsible for keeping Companys auditors are unaware: and proxy card.
adequate accounting records that are b the director has taken all the steps that sufficient to show and explain the Companys statement of directors responsibilities he or she ought to have taken as a director transactions and disclose with reasonable The directors are responsible for preparing in order to make themselves aware of any accuracy at any time the financial position the Annual Report, the Remuneration report, relevant audit information and to establish of the Company and the Group and enable and the financial statements in accordance that the Companys auditors are aware of them to ensure that the financial statements with applicable law and regulations.
and the Remuneration report comply with theCompanies Act 2006 and, with regards Company law requires the directors to By order of the Board to the Group financial statements, Article prepare financial statements for each financial 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Under that law the directors have responsible for safeguarding the assets of patricia alsop prepared the Group financial statements the Company and the Group and hence for Company Secretary in accordance with International Financial taking reasonable steps for the prevention ARM Holdings plc Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted anddetection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company Number: 2548782 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the annual report included on the Groups website in accordance with the UK legislation governing 28 Governance Financial Report direCtors remuneration report phiLip rowLey Remuneration Committee Chairman until 31 December 2013 Dear Shareholder 2013 was a busy year for the Committee with theintroduction and implementation of the new Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, which also involved making changes to the annual bonus plan for the purposes of simplification of the overall package.
This followed consultation with major shareholders and representative bodies which started in 2012.
The Committee also approved new salary and benefits arrangements for SimonSegars on his promotion to Chief Executive Officer.
In line with ARMs long-standing commitment to ethical values and culture, our aim is to ensure that remuneration policies and practices drive behaviours that are in the long-term interests of the Group and its shareholders.
Pay for performance and no reward for failure continue to be key principles.
At the same time, pay and benefits must be at a level that will attract, retain and motivate high-calibre people with the skills necessary to achieve our goal of sustained growth in corporate performance.
We operate in a global market, with the majority of our revenues being earned from companies located outside the UK and with more than half our employees being based outside the UK.
The Groups continuing strong performance is due principally to the proven abilities of our executive team.
29 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report CONTINUED In line with the revised remuneration Notwithstanding the tough market conditions remuneration Committee disclosure regulations that came into force in that continued during 2013, the minimum In this section we describe the composition October 2013, this report is now split into targets, established three years ago under and activities of the Committee during 2013. two sections: both the former LTIP and the former DAB Committee composition and meeting Plan, were exceeded and our executives The Directors Remuneration Policy is attendance during 2013: have been rewarded for their performance intended to apply for three years from the as detailed in the Implementation report.
The policy will be subject to a encouraging that shareholders have been Total number ofmeetings binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM supportive of our remuneration policies Meetings and at least every third year after that.
for many years and that the Remuneration Name of director Position attended report, incorporating our proposed The Implementation report, which sets Philip Rowley Independent non- 5 5 remuneration policy for 2014, received a executive director out payments and awards made to the 97.6% vote in favour 2.3% vote against: Committee directors and explains the linkage between 4,850,706 votes withheld at the 2013 AGM.
Chairman until 31 Group performance and remuneration in December 2013 We take an active interest in investors views respect of 2013.
This report will be subject on remuneration policy, which we were able Andy Green Independent non- 5 5 to an advisory shareholder vote at the to discuss directly with many shareholders executive director 2014 AGM.
through the consultation undertaken in 2013 Larry Hirst Independent non- 5 5 in connection with the new LTIP.
In line with executive director Key decisions on remuneration and actions my earlier commitment, I also consulted with Committee taken in relation to 2013 and 2014 include: Chairman from 1 shareholders in December 2013 over the EPS January 2014 targets applicable to the new LTIP and we approval of a pay and benefits package have taken shareholders views into account in including an LTIP top-up for Simon Segars Janice Roberts Independent 5 5 non-executive setting the new LTIP EPS targets.
on his appointment as Chief Executive director joined Officer.
Pay was increased to the same 28 February 2013 Finally, I have very much enjoyed my role level as applied for the retiring Chief as Committee Chairman and was pleased Executive Officer see details on page 46 : to be able to hand over a coherent and Given their diverse business experience, approval of a base pay increase for the carefully considered remuneration structure the independent non-executive directors executive directors of 3.48% for 2013 and to Larry Hirst, who became Chairman of the who made up the Committee in 2013 3.00% for 2014 compared to the average Committee on 1 January 2014, having been offer a balanced view and international increases for the workforce as a whole of a member of the Committee since he joined expertise in relation to remuneration matters 4.7% for 2013 and 4.35% for 2014: the Board in 2011.
At the Annual General for the Group.
Janice Roberts joined the Meeting on 1 May 2014, it will be nine years Committee on 28 February 2013 and has setting of performance targets for the since my election by shareholders and I will added valuable knowledge, particularly on bonus plan and new LTIP: therefore be retiring from the Board.
like to thank my colleagues on the Committee approval of pro-rated vesting under for their hard work and support during the LTIP and Deferred Annual Bonus my tenure as Chairman and, in particular, DAB plans for former Chief Executive during 2013.
Officer Warren East and former Chief Commercial Officer Mike Inglis on their retirements from the Group: philip rowley Remuneration Committee Chairman clear documentation of our remuneration until 31 December 2013 policies as set out in this report.
30 Governance Financial Report operation of the Committee shortand long-term strategy and has proved The Committee is able to consider corporate motivational and successful in achieving strong performance on environmental, social and The Chief Executive Officer and the EVP business performance over the past few years.
corporate governance issues when setting People attend each meeting for at least part the remuneration of executive directors, of the time to ensure that the Committee The Committee believes that a directors total and also takes account of pay and conditions is able to obtain their views on the level of remuneration should be monitored against elsewhere in the Group.
In particular, the compensation for executive directors and their worth in the external market, with total Committee is mindful of the fact that all other senior executives, although they are reward linked to corporate and individual employees receive share awards or cash not present when their own remuneration performance.
To this end, the Committee equivalents under the Groups equity plans.
The Company Secretary obtains information from independently advises the Committee on corporate published remuneration surveys, benchmarks The Committee does not specifically consult governance matters and acts as Secretary the total remuneration package, and applies with employees when setting and reviewing tothe Committee.
the following principles: remuneration policy for the executive directors: however, it does review the The Committees terms of reference are Base salaries are set at an appropriately salary increases for all Executive Committee published on the corporate website at competitive level.
members against the general employee www.
pay award each year to ensure that there A significant amount i. e. more than The principal items of business dealt with by is fairness.
Employees have an opportunity 70% of total potential remuneration is the Committee during 2013 are described in to raise any concerns over pay and benefits performance-related.
through the annual employee engagement survey or direct with their line manager.
There should be reward for performance remuneration policy but not for failure with an opportunity for The Committee believes that the new LTIP and Introduction upside for exceptional performance.
bonus arrangements provide a much simpler This Remuneration policy section of the Benchmarking provides a useful reference package similar to the approach adopted in report has been prepared in accordance point but not a target range for salaries or a largely US dominated sector and one that with Schedule 8 to the Large and Mediumother benefits.
rewards sustained longer term performance.
sized Companies and Groups Accounts and The new LTIP also rebalances the package Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 A significant element of performancetowards long-term performance and materially and will be submitted to shareholders for related remuneration is provided in the reduces the total quantum released after their approval at the Annual General Meeting form of shares.
In addition, the introduction of of the Company to be held on 1 May 2014. the new holding periods and increased share Elements of performance-related variable The Committee has also taken into account ownership guidelines will result in longer term remuneration are subject to deferral.
the principles set out in Schedule A to the UK performance alignment.
Therefore, if share Corporate Governance Code September Consideration is given to pay and price performance is sustained during the 2012 published by the Financial Reporting conditions elsewhere in the Group.
holding period, then participants are rewarded.
Council, the Listing Rules of the Financial If share price performance is not sustained Conduct Authority and the ABIs Principles of during the holding period then participants are Remuneration published in November 2013. worse off than under the old arrangements.
remuneration policy for executive Relative importance of spend on pay m and percentage change directors 350 24.1% We believe that sustained growth can be 300 4.8% 292.5 successfully achieved only with a high level 250 22.0% 235.7 of employee engagement and motivation.
All elements of pay 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 and benefits set out in the policy table are regarded as necessary to recruit, retain and Sta Pay Distributions to Research and Tax motivate appropriately skilled executives.
shareholders development costs The structure of competitive base salaries The above graph illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared with other disbursements from profit i. e. distributions to shareholders, the development of new products and tax.
These were the most significant outgoings and higher potential incentives supports both fortheGroup in the last financial year.
31 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report poLiCy remuneration policy The Directors Remuneration Policy below will be put to shareholders for approval at the next Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2014 and is intended to apply for three years from that date.
The Policy applies to the executive directors at the date of this report and is intended to apply to any new executive directors who may be appointed during this threeyear period.
Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually by the Base salaries are set at an None, although the overall performance Committee and are paid monthly in cash appropriate level for each role, ofeach executive director is considered by To provide an appropriately taking account of the factors theCommittee when reviewing base salaries.
competitive level of base salary Increases generally apply from January in each described in this table.
in order to enable the Group year.
In its annual review or on promotion, Maximum notice period is 12 months and pay to recruit, retain and motivate theCommittee considers the following: Generally salaries are no higher in lieu of notice may be made at the discretion executive directors of the calibre than market median, although of the Group.
This would include base salary Pay levels at companies of similar size required to achieve the Groups higher salaries may be paid, if and contractual benefits pro-rated where byreference to market capitalisation and business strategy and goal of necessary, to recruit externally applicable and any untaken holiday.
revenue on a geographic and global basis.
sustained growth in corporate orto retain key executives.
Fees for outplacement and legal advice may also External market conditions.
In normal circumstances be paid by the Group.
Pay and benefits elsewhere in theGroup.
base salary increases will be Individual performance, skills, experience determined by reference andpotential.
to average increases for Corporate performance on environmental, employees across the Group.
social and corporate governance issues.
Greater increases may be Clawback does not apply to base salary approved if there is a substantial inaccordance with contractual agreements.
change in a directors role or responsibilities or if the salary is significantly below the current market rate.
In such circumstances, increases may be phased over a number ofyears and be conditional onperformance.
32 Governance Financial Report Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion performance-related bonus Bonus, if earned, is paid wholly in cash for Maximum bonus: 125% of Amount is subject to achievement of two 2014onwards.
performance targets and then adjusted for in respect of 2014 financial individual performance: year onwards Paid annually after the Preliminary Bonus payable at target: 85% Announcement for the prior year end.
To incentivise executive directors to achieve performance Total revenue 50% of target bonus.
Bonus payments are not pensionable.
Target means the achievement objectives that are directly linked of appropriate maximum Individual performance measures specific Individual performance measures are focused to the Groups short-term targets in respect of both to each executive director, which flex the on objectives that are specific to each financial andstrategic goals.
Normalised Operating Profit amount of bonus by a factor of 0.75 to 1.25. executive director.
NOP and total revenue Revenue and profit growth are regarded as Clawback: provisions exist that require and prior to any personal the most appropriate short-term metrics for bonus to be forfeited i. e. offset of bonus performance adjustment.
accruing in that year or an equivalent value Bonus payable at threshold: 0% repaid in exceptional circumstances.
These The Committee retains discretion to adjust of base salary.
include material misstatement of published bonus targets for any financial year to reflect results and misconduct causing a material Threshold means the minimum intervening events including acquisitions loss and would apply for two years from the level of performance before or disposals.
The proportion of bonus starts to accrue.
The numerical values of targets for any particular the bonus that would be repayable and could financial year will not be disclosed in advance or be 100% would depend on the extent to during that year as the Committee considers which the original bonus exceeds that which this information to be commercially sensitive.
would have been paid if the results had been Theactual targets will be disclosed in the correctly stated, and also taking into account following financial year.
any negative impact of the re-statement.
performance-related bonus Bonus earned in respect of 2013 was subject Maximum and target bonus The targets for 2013 bonus were: to the provisions of the DAB Plan.
This was opportunity of 150% and 100% in respect of years up to and 50% of target bonus was dependent on the final operation of the DAB Plan.
including 2013 achieving a NOP target of 313.5m with 0% payout at 257.7m rising in a linear way Bonus was split 50% cash and 50% deferred To incentivise executive directors to 25% at 294.6m.
shares based on NOP, total revenue and to achieve performance individual performance.
The NOP portion of bonus can continue to objectives that are directly linked accrue linearly above the target of 313.5m to the Groups short-term There is compulsory deferral into shares for on a straight-line basis, subject to the overall financial andstrategic goals.
maximum of 150% of base salary.
Revenue and profit growth Bonus matching applies to deferred shares in 50% of bonus was dependent on achieving are regarded as the most the range of 0.3 for 1 to 2 for 1 match subject a US$ revenue target of US$1,096m appropriate short-term to three-year EPS growth of CPI 4% to CPI with 0% payout at US$913.2m rising to metrics for continuing the 12% p. a. respectively.
Deferred and any matching shares in relation The revenue portion of bonus can continue to2013 performance will be received in to accrue above the target of US$1,096m so February 2017. that for every 1% increase in revenue, bonus is increased by 2.5% of the target, subject to Dividend shares are added at vesting.
the overall maximum of 150% ofbase salary.
Provisions exist that could result in immediate Bonus amount is then subject to an individual forfeiture of shares in the event of dismissal performance multiplier which flexes the for gross misconduct, as determined by the payment by 0.75 to 1.25 again subject to the Committee and at its discretion.
overall maximum of 150% of base salary.
33 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report poLiCy CONTINUED Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion Long-term incentive Annual conditional share awards are made Maximum limit of 600% in For the 2014 award vesting is based on: at 187.5% of base salary with the ability for exceptional circumstances as plan2013 three-year Total Shareholder Return vesting of between 0% to 200% after three determined by the Committee.
first operation in 2014 TSR growth relative to the FTSE All World years dependent on achievement of the By way of example, exceptional Technology Index 25%.
To incentivise executive directors performance conditions, with a maximum circumstances could include the to achieve performance three-year TSR growth relative to the of375% of basesalary.
hiring of an exceptional senior objectives that are directly linked FTSE 350 25%.
50% of the vested shares will be subject to executive director in a highly to the Groups long-term financial three-year normalised EPS growth 50% additional holding periods with 25% released competitive market where we and strategic goals.
withthreshold at 15% annual growth including after four years and the remaining 25% need to make an exceptional To align executive directors CPI and the upper performance target at 22% released after five years.
During these new offer in order to recruit.
interests with those of the annualgrowth including CPI.
holding periods, shares may not be sold even shareholders through the 25% of the respective TSR elements vest for ifthe participant has left the Group.
performance conditions and median performance with 100% vesting for Dividend shares are added at vesting.
malus: The Committee has discretion to Similarly 25% of the normalised EPS element reduce a share award including to nil prior vests at threshold performance with 100% to vesting where there are exceptional vesting at the upper performance target circumstances, which include a material with straight line interpolation between these misstatement in the Groups published results, two points.
misconduct by the executive director that is The Committee will review the performance deemed to have caused or contributed to a conditions for new awards annually.
material loss as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions, or inappropriate values The Committee has discretion to waive or orbehaviour.
change a performance condition if anything happens that causes the Committee reasonably Clawback: The Committee has discretion to consider it appropriate, provided that to clawback shares and executive directors any changed performance condition will be have an obligation under the Rules to transfer no moredifficult to satisfy than the original shares or pay over the proceeds of sale in condition was intended to be at the time the exceptional circumstances as described award was granted.
If sold at less than market value, the obligation is to pay market value at the date of disposal.
Clawback would be less any tax and social security paid or due to be paid.
The Committee has discretion to set the length of the clawback period, which would normally be two years from acquisition of the shares.
shareholding requirement Until 200% of salary is achieved, no more than 50% of shares received through the DAB Plan To align executive directors and LTIP after the automatic sale of shares to interests with those of satisfy tax liabilities can be disposed of.
shareholders over a longer time period, they are required to Unvested DAB Plan shares do not count build a shareholding of 200% towards the shareholding requirements.
34 Governance Financial Report Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion Long-term Annual conditional awards normally at 100% Maximum award limit of 400% Vesting is based on: of salary with the potential for the award to in exceptional circumstances was incentive plan three-year TSR growth relative to the vest at between 0% and 200% of salary for never used.
in respect of years up to and FTSEAllWorld Technology Index 50%.
upper decile performance at the end of the including 2013 three-year TSR growth relative to the three-year performance period.
Dividend shares are added at vesting.
to achieve performance Threshold vesting commencing at median objectives that are directly ranking of TSR group 25% of respective TSR linked to the Groups long-term elements rising to 100% vesting for an upper financial and strategic goals.
decile ranking on a straight-line basis.
To align executive directors The Committee has discretion to waive or interests with those of the change a performance condition in the event of shareholders through the circumstances which cause the Committee to performance conditions and reasonably consider that: share retention obligations.
a the amended Performance Condition would be a fairer measure of performance and would be no easier to satisfy: or b the Performance Condition should be waived.
pension 10% of base salary for executive directors and 11% of base salary.
11% for the Chief Executive Officer is paid To provide pension contributions either into the Group Personal Pension Plan in line with market practice, which or overseas equivalent, or as a cash allowance will enable directors to plan subject to payroll deductions for those in for retirement.
excess of the lifetime allowance applicable in the UK.
other benefits Other benefits are provided appropriate Reasonable market cost Not applicable.
to the location of the executive director ofproviding benefits.
To provide competitive and include provision of a car or car and benefits in line with market The Committee reserves fuel allowance, long-term sickness and practice to enable the Group to thediscretion to provide such disability insurance, death in service benefit, recruit and retain high-calibre situation-specific benefits as and healthcare and travel insurance for the executive directors.
may be required in the interests executive director and family.
of the Groups business, To reward innovation Executive directors may also receive patent such as relocation.
bonuses in line with the scheme operated of the exercise of any such by the Group from time to time for patent discretion would be provided applications and on grants of patents.
to shareholders in the next Remuneration report.
35 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report poLiCy CONTINUED Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion overseas benefits Executives based in countries outside Reasonable market cost of Not applicable.
their home country receive other benefits providing benefits for the relocation allowances appropriate to the country in which they duration of the term abroad.
benefits in line with market practice to enable the Group to In the event that an executive director agrees recruit and retain high-calibre to move from their home country temporarily executive directors and move the relocation arrangements may include: them to alternative locations Housing allowance or settlement of actual costs.
when required by the needs of Disturbance allowance to enable essential the business.
household purchases to be made.
Cost of living and transportation allowance forthe duration of the assignment.
Flights home for executive and family.
School fees for executive directors children.
Cost of personal tax advice.
Cost of visas for executive and family.
Cost of transporting executive and familys personal effects.
Legal and estate agents fees associated with properties in home and overseas locations.
one-off recruitment cash An award of restricted stock units RSUs The maximum would be The Committee has discretion to determine or a grant of options may be made under a sum equal to the value appropriate performance conditions for any equity awards the Employee Equity Plan to a new recruit of equity foregone, taking award of RSUs, any LTIP award, or any grant To provide an appropriately to compensate for equity awards foregone account of performance ofoptions taking account of the circumstances attractive package to persuade an with previous employer and or provide equity conditions attached to the of each individual case.
Performance conditions external hire to accept an offer that vests in the three years prior to potential award, likelihood of vesting, would normally be applied on an equivalent of employment and or to buy vesting of the first LTIP award.
basisto those applicable to awards made to out equity that would be lost on other executive directors in the same calendar leaving previous employment.
Alternatively a cash payment or an additional year.
Performance conditions may, but would LTIP award may be made to compensate.
notnecessarily be applied to any cash payment.
Payment may be on taking up appointment or to coincide with vesting dates under the previous employers plan.
Malus and clawback provisions would apply.
other Contributory ARM currently operates a Save as You The maximum participation Not applicable.
Earn Option Scheme in the UK and some limits will not exceed those set equity plans other countries and an Employee Stock by the relevant tax authorities Executive directors are eligible Purchase Plan in the US and some other from time to time.
to participate in the share plan countries, which enables employees to buy applicable to the country where shares at a discount of up to 20% of market they work.
value through regular monthly or fortnightly These plans provide an payroll deductions.
opportunity for executive directors to voluntarily invest inthe Group.
fees for non-executive Executive directors are permitted to retain any The amounts received are Not applicable.
roles held outside the fees paid and or shares offered in connection disclosed annually.
with external non-executive roles that group Details are provided on they undertake.
To provide executive directors page 54. with opportunities to widen their knowledge and experience of the operation of other company boards and Committees, they are permitted to hold non-executive positions at other companies.
36 Governance Financial Report Component of remuneration package Operation and clawback Maximum potential value Performance conditions, and how it supports business strategy targets assessment and areas of discretion non-executive directors NED fees are proposed by the executive Fees are set at an appropriate Not applicable.
directors and approved by the Board as a level taking into account the ned and Chairmans fees whole.
The Chairmans fee is proposed by the factors outlined in this table.
To attract and retain an Committee and approved by the Board as appropriately experienced Additional fees are paid to the a whole with the Chairman taking no part in Chairman and independent SID and Committee Chairmen.
non-executive directors An additional fee is paid to of suitable calibre to fulfil NED appointments are terminable on three NEDs based outside the UK a range of different roles months notice.
who undertake long-haul travel including financial expert Audit Fees are reviewed on an annual basis and to attend Board meetings in Committee Chairman, Senior take account of fees paid for similar roles by the UK, to reflect the additional Independent Director and peer companies.
The NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible To pay fees that reflect to receive bonuses, pension contributions and responsibilities and workload nor can they participate in the LTIP or other undertaken, and which equity plans.
are competitive with The overall fees paid to non-executive peercompanies.
directors will remain within the limit stated in our Articles of Association, currently 0.5m which we are seeking approval to increase to 1.0m at the 2014 AGM.
pre 27 June 2012 Dividend shares are additional shares added at vesting equal to the amount of dividends that would have been paid during the deferral period for the DAB Plan and LTIP.
Calculated at the Group budget exchange rate of 1:US$1.60.
selection of performance measures The Committee has set this range for the LTIP Annual Bonus Plan and how targets are set award made for 2014 and intends to review Performance measures for the Annual it annually.
Changes will be made only if the LTIP Bonus Plan are set annually.
Each year the targets become inappropriate in changing Committee considers the most appropriate Performance measures for the new LTIP were market conditions.
Analysts targets are metrics to apply for the following financial selected after careful consideration by the acknowledged as important reference points year.
These metrics are currently NOP and Committee and following consultation with for the markets, but there are a number of Group Revenue.
The Committee believes factors beyond the control of the Group multiplier is then applied related to that the use of both TSR and EPS performance and the executive directors that may impact achievement of specific personal goals for measures provide the best alignment to Group mediumto long-term EPS performance each individual.
The Committee is of the strategy and encourages, reinforces and such as macro or semiconductor industry opinion that the numerical values of targets rewards the delivery of sustainable shareholder cycles and currency fluctuations.
These may for the Annual Bonus Plan are commercially value.
The TSR element which accounts for have impacts that would not necessarily be sensitive because they include budgeted 50% of total LTIP vesting was approved by seen as underperformance by the Group.
numbers within the range of outcomes and shareholders as part of the approval of the The Committee is also keen not to encourage it would be detrimental to the Group to new LTIP at the 2013 AGM.
short-term views or behaviour where, in disclose them in advance of or during the theory, investment in the long-term future The normalised EPS growth performance relevant performance period.
The actual either organically or by acquisition may be condition which accounts for 50% of total targets will be disclosed in the following discouraged if the EPS range is set at too LTIP vesting has been set as follows: financial year.
12.5% vesting for annual growth of 15% including CPI rising on a straight-line basis to 50% vesting for annual growth of 22% including CPI.
37 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report poLiCy CONTINUED Changes to executive directors illustration of remuneration policy The total remuneration for each of the remuneration for 2014 for2014 executive directors that could result from theproposed remuneration policy in 2014 The former LTIP approved in 2003 expired The tables below illustrate the level of under three different performance levels is in 2013 and at that time the Committee took remuneration that could be received by each shown below.
the opportunity to review its entire approach executive director through the operation of to executive pay.
The objective of the review our remuneration policy for 2014.
They show Simon Segars was to ensure that the Groups approach the proportion of total remuneration made Percentages amounts 000s remains fit for purpose over the next stage up of each component salary, bonus, LTIP, Fixed 100% 615 of its development.
The replacement of DAB pension and other benefits and the the DAB Plan and former LTIP with the total potential value.
It should be noted that On-target 40% 29% 31% 1,534 new Bonus Plan and LTIP will not result in these do not reflect the new LTIP scheme, Maximum 28% 29% 43% 2,221 any increases to the maximum quantum of as entitlements under the new LTIP will not reward delivered.
The Committee believes start to vest for three years and we are in a Tim Score that the new structure provides a much transitional period between the old and new Percentages amounts 000s simpler package similar to the approach LTIP and bonus plans.
For the total amount adopted in a largely US-dominated sector received by each director in respect of 2013 Fixed 100% 500 and one that rewards only sustained longerplease see the table on pages 46 to 47.
The chart below highlights Three scenarios have been illustrated for each the change: 21% 22% 57% Maximum 2,409 Structure of executive directors remuneration % of salary of the three executive directors: 600 Mike Muller Fixed element only performance no bonus, Percentages amounts 000s 500 no LTIP DAB vesting.
400 Fixed 100% 342 On-target performance 85% of base salary 300 On-target 32% 24% 44% 1,066 in cash bonus, 100% LTIP vesting, 100% DAB 200 matching shares.
Maximum 21% 22% 57% 1,657 100 Maximum performance 125% of base salary Fixed elements Annual variable Former New in cash bonus, 200% LTIP vesting, 200% DAB Multiple period variable Base salary Cash bonus Potential DAB matching shares.
Potential DAB match LTIP Notes: 1.
The Fixed element is base salary for 2014 plus thevalue ofpension, allowances and benefits.
The annual variable element is the amount of the cash bonus potential.
% increase in pay and benefits from 2012 to 2013 for Ceo compared 3.
The Multiple period variable is made up of the LTIP and to employees DAB Plan awards that were granted in February 2012 and CEO Employees have a performance period ending in 2014.
The values included assume a constant share price from Base Salary 2.0% 4.7% date of grant.
The actual value received will be higher or Benefits and pension 65.6% -5.0% lower depending on the share price at vest.
The annual variable elements would have been three Bonus 12.7% 9.6% percentage points higher under the previous years remuneration arrangements, as the on-target bonus was The percentages for the CEO reflect the pay and benefits for Warren East for the first half of the year and for Simon Segars 100% and the maximum bonus was 150%.
for the second half of the year.
The large increase in the benefits and pension of the CEO in 2013 was due to allowances paid to Simon Segars as a result of his placement in the US.
Warren East received no such allowance in 2012.
The CEOs bonus percentage reflects the decrease in the bonus received by Simon Segars for the year to 31 December 2013 compared to the bonus received by Warren East for the year to 31 December 2012.
On his appointment as CEO on 1 July 2013, Simon Segars base salary was increased from 300,000 to 500,000.
Since his bonus is calculated on pro-rata basis, his bonus for 2013 was lower than that received by Warren East for 2012, despite the higher overall percentage paid.
38 Governance Financial Report service contracts The dates of the service contracts of each The term of appointment for non-executive person who served as an executive director directors is three years, which can be rolled Our policy is for notice periods for executive during the financial year are as follows: forward for two further periods each of three directors to be of one years duration and years, which would be subject to annual review.
each of the executive directors service Appointments are subject to termination Director Date contracts reflects this.
These agreements on three months notice.
Fees paid to nonprovide for each of the directors to provide Simon Segars 18 March 2013 executive directors are reviewed annually services to the Group on a full-time basis Tim Score 1 March 2002 witheffect from 1 January.
and contain restrictive covenants for Mike Muller 31 January 1996 periods of three to six months following termination of employment Mike Inglis termination of employment relating to nonIn the event of termination of an executive retired 31 March 2013 17 July 2002 competition, non-solicitation of the Groups directors contract of employment, customers, non-dealing with customers, and Warren East compensation would be based on salary and retired 30 June 2013 29 January 2001 non-solicitation of the Groups suppliers contractual benefits during the notice period and employees.
In addition, each service and whether the departing director is deemed contract contains an express obligation of Service contracts for the executive directors to be a good leaver under the rules of the confidentiality in respect of the Groups trade and appointment letters for the Chairman and bonus plan, the 2013 LTIP, the former LTIP, secrets and confidential information and non-executive directors are available to view and the former DAB Plan.
provides for the Group to own any intellectual in the Corporate Governance section of our property rights created by the directors in the website at www.
Contractual provisions Plan Rules Exit Payment Policy service contracts Payment of contractual entitlements, including payment in lieu of Maximum notice period is 12 months and pay in lieu of notice may notice in appropriate circumstances, where certainty and protection bemade at the discretion of the Group.
ofrestrictive covenants are in the best interests of the Group.
This would include base salary and contractual benefits pro-rated Termination payments would take into account the particular where applicable and any untaken holiday.
circumstances relevant to each individual situation.
Fees for outplacement and legal advice may also be paid by the Group.
Ltip For good leavers conditional awards under the LTIP would normally In relation to both the LTIP and Bonus Plan: in assessing whether vest pro-rata to time served and the extent to which the performance an executive director is a good leaver in retirement circumstances, conditions are satisfied at the date of termination of employment.
the executive director is required to confirm future intentions to the Committee including that he or she will not accept a full-time For bad leavers, unvested share awards would lapse on termination executive role in a commercial organisation.
determines that the executive director is a good leaver and Bonus plans There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus.
In the event of subject tosatisfaction of performance targets, pro-rated vesting of deathor leaving as a result of disability or ill health, pro-rata bonus entitlementsunder the old and new LTIPs and bonus plans would maybe paid for the year of cessation.
Bad leavers would not receive performance-related bonus awards in The holding periods described in the Remuneration Policy table would relation to the year of cessation.
apply to any shares that vest under the LTIP.
Clawback provisions exist that require bonus to be forfeited i. e. offset of bonus accruing in that year or an equivalent value repaid should it be necessary for the Group to re-state to a material extent the financial results on which the bonus was awarded within two years of the payment of such bonus.
The proportion of the bonus that would be repayable which could be 100% would depend on the extent to which the original bonus exceeds that which would have been paid if the results hadbeencorrectly stated, also taking into account any negative .
former daB plan Deferred shares under the former DAB Plan would vest on termination.
Deferred shares can be forfeited in certain circumstances.
Matching shares vest, to the extent the performance conditions are satisfied, for good leavers only.
39 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report impLementation BaLanCing shor t and L ong-term remunera tion Base salary increase for 2013 and 2014 Current incentive arrangements and Shares earned are satisfied through the issue their operation in respect of 2013 of new shares any treasury shares available For 2013, the average increase in base salaries financial year would be used first.
for the executive directors was 3.48% and the average increase for the workforce as For 2013 there were four key incentive Each of the executive directors achieved a a whole was 4.7%.
On his appointment as schemes in operation across the workforce personal performance multiplier of at least Chief Executive Officer on 1 July 2013, the asa whole.
These are as follows: 1.15 for 2013, which means bonus received Committee approved a salary increase for was in the range 136% to 144% of salary, For executive directors and senior managers: Simon Segars to 500,000, which was at the half of which was compulsorily deferred into same level as the retiring Chief Executive shares for three years.
Actual bonuses are The final annual bonus award under the Officer.
For 2014 the average increases are detailed in the table on page 48.
3.0% for the executive directors and 4.35% for the workforce as a whole.
Within the An annual conditional award under The revenue target is set in US dollars to overall increase for 2014, the range was 3.4% the LTIP.
reflect the main currency in which revenues for the US rising to 8.0% in Asia, reflecting are earned.
local market conditions and salary inflation.
For all other employees: The NOP target range was from zero payout shareholding requirements Awards under the Annual Bonus Plan.
at 257.7 million up to 25% at 294.6 million and 50% at 313.5 million, all at the Group In order to align executives interests with Employee Equity Plan.
budget exchange rate of 1:US$1.60.
those of shareholders over a longer time period, all Executive Committee members Option grants to executive directors ceased Shares representing the deferred element of arenow required to build a shareholding in 2006 although the facility to grant options bonus earned in 2010 and awarded in 2011 of 200% of base salary an increase from exists in exceptional circumstances.
The move vested in February 2014, with the maximum the previous level of 100% of base salary.
away from options to restricted shares for all 2:1 ratio of matching shares being triggered.
For other participants in the new LTIP, the employees has reduced potential dilution and This ratio was achieved because EPS growth shareholding requirement has increased from has simplified remuneration arrangements.
was 120.4%, which is greater than CPI plus 50% to 100% of base salary.
12% per annum on average for the three We significantly out-performed our years making up the performance period.
Unvested DAB Plan shares do not count international peer group over the last three towards the shareholding requirements.
years, which resulted in 183.7% vesting of the At normalised EPS growth equal to the Until these levels are achieved, no more than LTIP awards made in 2011 when the share increase in the Consumer Prices Index CPI 50% of shares received through the DAB price was 611 pence per share and full vesting plus 4% per annum, the deferred shares will Plan and LTIP after the automatic sale of of the DAB Plan matching share awards made be matched on a 0.3:1 basis, rising to 2:1 shares to satisfy tax liabilities can be disposed in respect of 2010.
To put the awards that when EPS growth is in excess of CPI plus 12% of by participants.
For 2014 a transitional are currently outstanding under the LTIP and per annum.
These targets are directly related arrangement is in place for participants below DAB Plan into context, the share price was to the Groups financial results and encourage Executive Committee level under which 568 pence per share for the February 2012 achievement of the Groups short-term 20% of net shares vesting must be retained.
awards and 924.5 pence per share for the financial goals, while the deferral and matching This will increase to 50% for 2015 onwards.
The share price was elements encourage a longer term view 896 pence per share on 7 February 2014 of the success of the Group.
The deferred At the present share price, all of the executive being the day before the 2014 LTIP and final shares can be forfeited in the event of gross directors meet the 200% of base salary DAB Plan awards were made.
misconduct and the matching shares are shareholding requirement.
subject to forfeiture for bad leavers.
Collectively the Executive Committee, including the executive directors, held 3.7 million shares with a value of 36.8 million at 3 March 2014.
This currently equates to a multiple of 10times base salaries.
40 Governance Financial Report new Bonus plan for 2014 Revenue and profit growth are regarded The individual performance multipliers for asthe best drivers to increase market share the executive directors are then approved by As part of the new structure for executive andcontinue the Groups outperformance the Committee.
remuneration and in particular the new LTIP ofsemiconductor market growth.
which was consulted on with shareholders The numerical values of targets for any in 2012 13 and approved by shareholders at The Committee retains discretion to adjust particular financial year will not be disclosed in the 2013 Annual General Meeting, bonuses, bonus targets for any financial year to reflect advance or during that year as the Committee if earned, will be paid wholly in cash for 2014 intervening events including acquisitions or considers this information to be commercially onwards.
The maximum bonus opportunity disposals.
It should be noted that the individual sensitive.
The commercial sensitivity relates to has reduced from 150% to 125% of base performance multiplier when applied to the the use of current year budget revenue within salary, bonus payable at target has reduced executive directors normally falls within a the range of outcomes.
The actual targets will from 100% to 85% of base salary and no relatively narrow range at the upper end.
be disclosed in the following financial year.
bonus is paid at threshold.
This results from the fact that maintenance The bonus targets set by the Committee of a very high level of performance is a Target constitutes the achievement of for each year are intended to be stretching pre-requisite to continuation in the role of appropriate maximum targets in respect but motivational and average bonus paid to executive director.
Performance is reviewed ofboth NOP and total revenue and prior the executive directors over the past five on an in-depth basis on at least an annual toany personal performance adjustment.
years was 125% of salary with a range from basis by the CEO for the other executive 84% payout for 2009 to 150% for 2011 The amount is subject to the achievement directors and by the Chairman for the CEO.
asshown below: oftwo performance targets and then adjusted for individual performance: NOP 50% of target bonus.
Average percentage bonus paid over the past five years to executive directors 200% Total revenue 50% of target bonus.
150% Individual performance multiplier specific to each executive director, which flexes the 100% bonus amount by a factor of 0.75 to 1.25.
2010 maximum bonus was limited to 125% of base salary.
For 2011, 2012 and 2013 maximum bonus was 150% of basesalary.
For 2014 onwards maximum bonus is 125% of base salary.
41 % of base salary ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report impLementation CONTINUED Linkage of bonus targets to Long-term incentive plan The vesting of the 2011 LTIP awards in businessstrategy February 2014 was at 183.7% as a result of Former LTIP our significant outperformance compared to The personal performance multiplier depends Under the former LTIP, annual conditional our international peer group over the past on the achievement of pre-determined awards to executive directors were normally three years.
Subject to achievement of the objectives, which are reviewed and approved made at a level equivalent to base salary.
performance conditions, the final outstanding by the Committee each year.
These include Conditional awards vest to the extent awards under the former LTIP will vest key strategic objectives related to each that the performance criteria are satisfied in 2016. directors role and responsibilities such as over a three-year performance period compliance with the Management Charter, from 1 January of the year of award, New LTIP which is designed to foster employee with no subsequent re-testing permitted.
The new LTIP was approved by shareholders development, understanding of the The performance conditions are based on at the 2013 Annual General Meeting overall vision and strategy of the Group, the Companys TSR when measured against and is described in more detail in the and good governance.
The Committee is that of two comparator groups each testing Remuneration Policy summary earlier in able to consider corporate performance half of the shares comprised in the award.
Annual awards are made up on environmental, social and corporate The first index comprises UK companies to a normal maximum of 375% of base governance issues when setting the across all sectors FTSE 350 and the second salary.
comprises predominantly US companies Vesting is based on: within the hi-tech sector FTSE All World Technology Index.
Three-year relative TSR growth relative to theFTSE All World Technology Index 25%.
For each comparator group, the number of shares that may vest may be up to a Three-year relative TSR growth relative to maximum of 200% of the relevant half of theFTSE 350 25%.
the shares comprised in the conditional Three-year EPS growth 50%.
award if the Companys TSR ranks in the upper decile, 50% of the relevant half of 25% of the respective TSR elements vest for the shares will vest in the event of median median performance, with 100% vesting for performance and between median and upper upper quintile performance.
decile performance vesting will increase on a straight-line basis.
Additional shares may Similarly 25% of the EPS element vests at vest to cover dividends paid by the Company threshold performance annual growth in during the performance period.
No shares will EPS of 15% including CPI and 100% vests at be received for below-median performance.
maximum performance annual growth in EPS In addition, no shares will vest unless the of 22% including CPI and rising on a straightCommittee is satisfied that there has been line basis between these two points.
a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group.
50% of the vested shares will be subject to additional holding periods with 25% released after four years and the remaining 25% released after five years.
During these new holding periods, shares may not be sold even if the participant has left the Group.
42 Governance Financial Report The Committee gave particularly careful former share option schemes thought to this range, taking into account a The remaining shares of the final option grant number of factors including internal forecasts to executive directors made in 2006 vested and updated market consensus, balanced in accordance with the rules of the scheme in with the need to create a real incentive over February 2013. the long-term.
Another key factor was the pensions need for the Group to have the flexibility to make appropriate investments with a view The Group does not operate its own pension to generating long-term shareholder value scheme but makes payments into a group recognising the typical timelines in which personal pension plan, which is a money investments in technology give rise to licence purchase scheme.
For executive directors, and royalty revenue.
The range is considered the normal rate of Group contribution is to be challenging and significantly exceeds the 10% of the executives basic salary, or 11% EPS growth range for awards granted under in the case of the Chief Executive Officer the former DAB Plan being CPI 4% to plus additional amounts in accordance CPI 12%.
with the Groups salary sacrifice scheme.
Full details of Group contributions are set Our intent is to review these targets on out in the directors emoluments table later an annual basis, taking account of market in this report.
Since 2011, to the extent that conditions and any other relevant factors contributions cannot be made in a tax efficient to ensure that they remain appropriate in way at the 10 11% of basic salary level, the context of the factors set out above.
the difference is paid as an additional cash The Committee will review their applicability allowance and subject to appropriate tax and on an annual basis, so that in the event that other deductions.
exceptional circumstances arise, such as material corporate activity or substantial Compensation for loss of office changes in market conditions, their impact No payments were made during 2013 can be considered against subsequent annual to former executive directors by way of awards.
If changes are to be proposed for compensation for loss of office, or pay in any prospective LTIP award, it would be the lieuof notice.
Committees intention to confirm any such change to shareholders in advance.
43 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report impLementation CONTINUED performance graphs The Committee considers the FTSE All-World Technology Index to be an A performance graph showing the appropriate choice as the Index contains Companys TSR together with the TSRs for companies from the US, Asia and Europe the FTSE All-World Technology Index and and therefore reflects the global environment the FTSE 350 from 31 December 2008 is in which the Group operates.
The TSR has been calculated in the Index includes many companies that are accordance with the Directors Remuneration currently the Groups customers, as well as Report Regulations 2002. companies that use ARM technology in their The TSR for the Companys shares was end products.
1,231% over this period compared with 148% for the FTSE All-World Technology Index for the same period.
The CEOs total single figure for 2013 represents the pay, benefits and pension received by Warren East for the first half of the year as well as the market value at vesting of the shares received by him on his retirement under the rules of the LTIP and DAB Plans.
This figure also includes the pay, benefits, bonus and pension received by Simon Segars for the second half of the year as well as the market value of the shares received byhim under the LTIP and DAB Plans in respect of the financial year to 31 December 2013.
44 Governance Financial Report non-executive directors In addition to the interests disclosed above, share dilution the executive directors have interests in During 2013, the Chairmen of the Audit and It is proposed that the Group will continue dividend shares that could be awarded Remuneration Committees each received to manage dilution within the context of under the former and current LTIPs and a total fee of 70,000 per annum and the maintaining award levels within a 10% limit the former DAB Plan, the amount of which other non-executive directors each received over five years excluding rolled over Artisan will depend on the extent to which the a total fee of 55,000 per annum.
In line options, the limit that has applied since 2003. performance criteria are satisfied and on the with fee arrangements in place in other We are aware that this is higher than the limit dividends declared during the performance companies of similar size and complexity, the of 5% over ten years in respect of discretionary period.
Changes in directors interests in the executive directors have implemented new awards and 10% over ten years in respect of Companys shares that have taken place in the arrangements from 1 January 2014 as follows: all schemes adopted by many UK companies period from 31 December 2013 to the date and preferred by many institutional investors.
of approval of the Remuneration report are A standard fee of 60,000 per annum.
The reasons for this higher limit, which was shown above.
approved by shareholders when the former Additional fees for Committee Chairmen LTIP was introduced, are at least as strong external advisers and the Senior Independent Director of today.
These are the broad-based nature of 16,000 per annum.
The Committee has access to independent our equity plans which cover all employees professional advice on remuneration and the need to be able to compete with US This is believed to more fairly reflect the matters.
Following a competitive tender companies worldwide for the high-calibre workload undertaken by Committee process, Towers Watson were appointed engineers and executives required to secure Chairmen and the Senior Independent by the Committee in 2010, and Committee the Groups future success.
The additional fee of $2,500 per members continue to be satisfied that their is keenly aware of this issue, and will continue meeting which is paid to non-executive advice is objective and independent and their to keep well below the 10% upper limit.
directors who are based in the US and travel fees are in line with market practice.
Access to Dilution over the past five years has been to the UK for Board meetings will continue their global database and expertise is an 6.85%.
This is to reflect their additional important factor in considering remuneration time commitment.
matters across the senior executive team.
Work undertaken by Towers Watson in The Chairmans fee for 2013 was at the 2013 included advice on the structure and rate of 390,000 per annum and increased targets for the new LTIP, new CEO and senior by 2.6% for 2014 to the rate of 400,000 executive packages, and the Remuneration per annum.
Policy summary in this report, for which total Non-executive directors do not have service fees of 52,000 were paid during the year.
contracts and are not eligible to participate The Committee also received advice from in bonus or share incentive arrangements.
Kepler Associates who provided independent Their service does not qualify for pension verification of Total Shareholder Return TSR purposes or other benefits, and no element calculations for the LTIP.
The former EVP Human Resources and the current EVP People also provided advice to the Committee in 2013.
45 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report impLementation CONTINUED audited information The following information has been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP, as required bythe Companies Act 2006.
In addition, Tim Score has the use of a company car with fuel benefit andWarren East, Tudor Brown, Mike Inglis and Mike Muller received a car and petrol allowance.
Simon Segars receives 61,283 living, transportation and other allowances as part of his placement in the US.
Warren East, Mike Inglis and Tudor Brown received an additional cash allowance in place of Group pension contributions that can no longer be contributed in a tax-efficient way.
The bonus payments above represent the full bonus earned during 2013.
According to the terms of the DAB Plan, 50% of this bonus is not paid in cash, but is deferred and becomes payable inshares after three years.
Details of the awards made in February 2012 in respect of these deferrals are detailed above.
These include the value of shares received by Tudor Brown, Mike Inglis and Warren East on LTIP and DAB plans on their retirements.
For the first half of 2013, Simon Segars salary was 300,000.
Following his appointment to CEO on 1 July 2013, his salary increased to 500,000, resulting in an average for the year of 400,000.
Executive directors annual salaries were increased from 1 January 2014, each by 3% to the following amounts: Simon Segars 515,000: Tim Score 427,450: and Mike Muller 293,550.
The Group has adopted the single total figure performance measure in the year.
Under the new guidance, share price appreciation of scheme interests that vest in the year, for which the performance conditions were met in a prior year, are excluded from the single figure table.
The comparative amounts have been amended to reflect the new guidance.
Details of these new plans are included in the Remuneration Policy summary earlier in this report.
The deferred and matching share elements of the DAB Plan will continue to vest over the next three years and all new awards will be made under the new LTIP and the Annual Bonus Plan.
As demonstrated in this summary, there is a highly variable element to executive directors remuneration.
For 2013, target and maximum bonus of 100% and 150% of base salary respectively after application of an individual performance multiplier which flexes the payment by 0.75 to 1.25 could be earned through the DAB Plan if all targets were met.
The strong performance of the Group in 2013 resulted in achievement of both of the equally weighted bonus targets, as set out below: Bonus % achieved 2013 Bonus targets Target Actual of base salary Revenue US$1,096.0m US$1,117.7m 55.0% NOP 313.5m 332.6m 62.9% total 117.9% NOP for bonus purposes is calculated using the Group budget exchange rate of 1:US$1.60 for 2013.
The executive directors received the following payments in respect of the performance of the company in 2013: Total Bonus 50% deferred Shares Salary Bonus % Personal bonus paid in shares awarded Director achieved multiplier % Number Simon Segars until 30 June 2013 300,000 117.9 1.150 135.59 201,706 Simon Segars from 1 July 2013 500,000 117.9 1.150 135.59 341,748 simon segars total for year 543,454 271,727 30,327 tim score 415,000 117.9 1.225 144.43 599,374 299,687 33,447 mike muller 285,000 117.9 1.200 141.48 403,218 201,609 22,501 Simon Segars bonus was calculated pro-rated on a daily basis.
In addition to his DAB bonus, Mike Muller received a 500 bonus for filing a patent.
Money and other assets receivable for periods of more than one financial year.
The executive directors received the following in February 2014, in respect of performance periods ending in 2013: Market value Market value of LTIP at of DAB matching Total vesting shares at vesting received Director Simon Segars 734,433 472,927 1,207,360 Tim Score 1,049,565 678,218 1,727,783 Mike Muller 726,208 467,425 1,193,633 Warren East retired 30 June 2013 1,822,138 1,301,550 3,123,688 Mike Inglis retired 31 March 2013 921,076 759,291 1,680,367 total 5,253,420 3,679,411 8,932,831 48 Governance Financial Report The executive directors received the following in February 2013, in respect of performance periods ending in 2012: Market value Market value of LTIP at of DAB matching Total vesting shares at vesting received Director Simon Segars 2,376,446 943,101 3,319,547 Tim Score 3,408,086 1,375,101 4,783,187 Mike Muller 2,348,822 928,106 3,276,928 Warren East retired 30 June 2013 3,960,771 1,572,094 5,532,865 Mike Inglis retired 31 March 2013 2,394,880 947,039 3,341,919 Tudor Brown retired 3 May 2012 928,941 451,963 1,380,904 total 15,417,946 6,217,404 21,635,350 Ltip vesting in 2013 The performance conditions applicable to the conditional awards granted on 8 February 2010 were satisfied in respect of the performance period ended 31 December 2012 to the extent of 200% plus dividend shares which vested on 8 February 2013, as follows: Market value Conditional award Vested award Dividend shares Total award at vesting Director Number Number Number Number Simon Segars 125,853 251,706 5,346 257,052 2,376,446 Tim Score 180,487 360,974 7,667 368,641 3,408,086 Mike Muller 124,390 248,780 5,284 254,064 2,348,822 Warren East retired 30 June 2013 209,756 419,512 8,911 428,423 3,960,771 Mike Inglis retired 31 March 2013 126,829 253,658 5,388 259,046 2,394,880 total 767,315 1,534,630 32,596 1,567,226 14,489,005 The amount vested above represents the maximum award under the LTIP.
This is based on the total shareholder return as calculated below: Comparator Group ARM TSR percentile rank Implied vesting FTSE 350 Index 99.4% 200% FTSE All W orld T echnology Index 100% 200% Overall 200% Ltip vesting in 2014 The performance conditions applicable to the conditional awards granted on 8 February 2011 were satisfied in respect of the performance period ended 31 December 2013 to the extent of 183.7% plus dividend shares which vested on 8 February 2014, as follows: Market value Conditional award Vested award Dividend shares Total award at vesting Director Number Number Number Number Simon Segars 43,863 80,576 1,392 81,968 734,433 Tim Score 62,684 115,150 1,989 117,139 1,049,565 Mike Muller 43,372 79,674 1,376 81,050 726,208 total 149,919 275,400 4,757 280,157 2,510,206 49 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report impLementation CONTINUED The amount vested above is based on the total shareholder return as calculated below: Comparator Group ARM TSR percentile rank Implied vesting FTSE 350 Index 81.3% 167.4% FTSE All W orld T echnology Index 90.0% 200.0% Overall 183.7% In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, on his retirement on 31 March 2013, Mike Inglis received the following shares under the Plan calculated on a pro-rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date: Market value Conditional award Vested award Dividend shares Total award at vesting Grant Number Number Number Number 8 February 2011 44,190 52,683 52,683 551,064 8 February 2012 49,295 35,374 35,374 370,012 total 93,485 88,057 88,057 921,076 In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, on his retirement on 30 June 2013, Warren East received the following shares under the Plan calculated on a pro-rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date: Conditional Vested Dividend Total Market value award award shares award at vesting Grant Number Number Number Number 8 February 2011 77,741 122,434 122,434 1,085,377 8 February 2012 86,267 83,109 83,109 736,761 total 164,008 205,543 205,543 1,822,138 In accordance with the rules of the LTIP, on his retirement on 3 May, 2012, Tudor Brown received the following shares under the Plan calculated on a pro-rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date: Market value Conditional award Vested award Dividend shares Total award at vesting Grant Number Number Number Number 8 February 2010 106,341 165,679 165,679 796,088 8 February 2011 36,007 27,649 27,649 132,853 total 142,348 193,328 193,328 928,941 The following conditional awards over ordinary shares were made under the LTIP on 8 February 2014: Simon Segars 107,770: Tim Score 89,449 and Mike Muller 61,429.
The mid-market closing price of an ordinary share on 7 February 2014, being the business day prior to the date of these conditional awards, was 896 pence.
50 Governance Financial Report deferred annual Bonus plan There is a compulsory deferral of 50% of the annual bonus earned by executive directors in the year.
The emoluments detailed above include the full bonus earned for 2013, although only half has been settled in cash and the deferred elements will be settled in shares after three years.
The total number of deferred shares held under the DAB Plan by the directors following confirmation of 2013 bonus is: Shares deferred as part of Shares deferred as part of Shares deferred as part of the 2011 bonus the 2012 bonus the 2013 bonus Total awards Director Number Number Number Number Simon Segars 35,387 20,045 30,327 85,759 Tim Score 50,572 28,637 33,447 112,656 Mike Muller 34,991 18,900 22,501 76,392 total 120,950 67,582 86,275 274,807 The performance conditions applicable to the matching awards relating to the deferred elements of the annual bonus for 2010 were satisfied to the extent of 200% matching shares plus dividend shares which vested on 8 February 2014, as follows: Shares deferred as part of the 2010 bonus Matching shares Matching shares Dividend shares Total award Director Number Number Value Number Number Simon Segars 26,391 52,782 472,927 456 79,629 Tim Score 37,847 75,694 678,218 654 114,195 Mike Muller 26,084 52,168 467,425 451 78,703 total 90,322 180,644 1,618,570 1,561 272,527 The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 896.0 pence.
The matching shares vesting above represent the maximum award under the DAB Plan.
This award is based on an EPS growth rate before inflation of 120% per annum compared with a target growth rate of CPI plus 12% per annum on average for the three years making up the performance period.
In accordance with the rules of the DAB Plan, on his retirement on 31 March 2013, Mike Inglis received the following shares calculated on a prorata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date: Shares deferred as part of the bonus Matching shares Matching shares value Total award Grant Number Number Number 2011 26,595 39,831 416,632 66,426 2012 35,651 29,629 309,919 65,280 2013 19,244 3,130 32,740 22,374 total 81,490 72,590 759,291 154,080 51 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report impLementation CONTINUED In accordance with the rules of the DAB Plan, on his retirement on 1 July 2013, Warren East received the following shares calculated on a prorata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date: Shares deferred as part of the bonus Matching shares Matching shares value Total award Grant Number Number Number 2011 43,985 73,186 648,794 117,171 2012 62,720 62,550 554,506 125,270 2013 33,677 11,083 98,251 44,760 total 140,382 146,819 1,301,550 287,201 The performance conditions applicable to the matching awards relating to the deferred elements of the annual bonus for 2009 were satisfied to the extent of 200% matching shares plus dividend shares which vested on 8 February 2013, as follows: Shares deferred Matching as part of Matching shares the bonus shares award Dividend shares Total awards Director Number Number Number Number Simon Segars 51,006 102,012 943,101 1,082 154,100 Tim Score 74,370 148,740 1,375,101 1,578 224,688 Mike Muller 50,195 100,390 928,106 1,065 151,650 Warren East 85,024 170,048 1,572,094 1,804 256,876 Mike Inglis 51,219 102,438 947,039 1,087 154,744 total 311,814 623,628 5,765,441 6,616 942,058 The market value of an ARM share on the date of vesting was 924.5 pence.
This award is based on an EPS growth rate before inflation of 170% compared with a target growth rate of CPI plus 12% per annum on average for the three years making up the performance period.
In accordance with the rules of the DAB Plan, on his retirement on 3 May, 2012, Tudor Brown received the following shares calculated on a pro-rata basis and reflecting the extent to which the performance conditions were satisfied at that date: Shares deferred Matching as part of Matching shares the bonus shares award Total award Grant Number Number Number 2010 43,427 67,659 325,102 111,086 2011 22,299 19,875 95,499 42,174 2012 29,049 6,527 31,362 35,576 total 94,775 94,061 451,963 188,836 52 Governance Financial Report share awards Details of conditional awards made in the year to 31 December 2013 under the LTIP and deferred shares granted under the DAB in the year to 31 December 2013 plan by the directors are as follows: Share price at Type of Basis of Date of award date Vesting Face value % vesting at Director award award award Number date threshold Simon Segars LTIP 100% of salary 8 February 2013 32,449 9.245 8 February 2016 600,000 50% 100% of payrise for 2013 on Simon Segars LTIP becoming CEO 13 August 2013 11,280 8.865 13 August 2016 200,000 50% 50% of bonus paid in respect Simon Segars DAB of 2012 8 February 2013 20,045 9.245 8 February 2016 370,605 100% Tim Score LTIP 100% of salary 8 February 2013 44,889 9.245 8 February 2016 830,000 50% 50% of bonus paid in respect Tim Score DAB of 2012 8 February 2013 28,637 9.245 8 February 2016 529,436 100% Mike Muller LTIP 100% of salary 8 February 2013 30,827 9.245 8 February 2016 570,000 50% 50% of bonus paid in respect Mike Muller DAB of 2012 8 February 2013 18,900 9.245 8 February 2016 349,428 100% Warren East retired 30 June 2013 LTIP 100% of salary 8 February 2013 54,083 9.245 8 February 2016 1,000,000 50% 50% of bonus Warren East paid in respect retired 30 June 2013 DAB of 2012 8 February 2013 33,677 9.245 8 February 2016 622,617 100% 50% of bonus Mike Inglis paid in respect retired 31 March 2013 DAB of 2012 8 February 2013 19,244 9.245 8 February 2016 355,781 100% Face Value represents the maximum amount receivable under the award.
Threshold for LTIP is 50% vest when certain TSR-related criteria are met.
All DAB shares will vest after three years.
Additional matching shares may be granted depending on EPS growth see page 33 for details.
Details of options exercised by directors during the year are as follows: Market price Exercise on date of Gains on Number price exercise exercise Director of shares simon segars 75,441 1.325 9.2168 595,362 tim score 114,959 1.325 9.2213 907,749 mike muller 80,830 1.325 9.2211 638,241 Warren East retired 30 June 2013 136,513 1.325 9.2943 1,087,911 Warren East retired 30 June 2013 4,620 1.948 8.745 31,402 warren east retired 30 June 2013 141,133 1,119,313 mike inglis retired 31 march 2013 80,830 1.325 9.3014 644,736 total 493,193 3,905,401 No options were exercised by directors after the year end.
Except as described above, there have been no changes in directors interests under the Groups equity schemes since the end of the 2013 financial year up to the date of approval of the Remuneration report.
The Companys register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe and conditional awards under the LTIP.
53 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 direCtors remuneration report impLementation CONTINUED directors shareholdings in the Company There is no requirement in the Articles of Association for directors to hold shares in the Company.
There is a requirement for executive directors to hold shares to the value of 200% of their salary as set out in the remuneration policy on page 34.
The directors beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence areas follows: Shareholding at 31 December 2013 Shares held Shares held Shares held under Shareholding at or date of retirement Shareholding under LTIP at under DAB at SAYE scheme at date of report if earlier requirement met 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 Director Number Number Number Number Number Number Sir John Buchanan N A Stuart Chambers appointed 27 January 2014 10,000 10,000 N A Simon Segars 557,222 479,947 Yes 136,887 81,823 Tim Score 864,824 742,218 Yes 177,995 117,056 18,208 Mike Muller 1,425,442 1,340,774 Yes 122,614 79,975 Andy Green N A Larry Hirst N A Eric Meurice appointed 1 July 2013 N A Kathleen ODonovan N A Janice Roberts N A Philip Rowley 40,000 40,000 N A Warren East retired 30 June 2013 N A 1,419,322 N A Mike Inglis retired 31 March 2013 N A 99,857 N A The following information is unaudited.
It is the Companys policy to allow executive directors to hold non-executive positions at other companies and to receive remuneration for their services.
The Board believes that experience of the operations of other companies and their boards and Committees is valuable to the development of the executive directors.
Details of executive directors roles within other companies and their remuneration are as follows: Tim Score was a non-executive director of National Express Group plc until 25 February 2014 and he received remuneration totalling 60,500 up to 31 December 2013 2012: 60,500.
Mike Muller is a non-executive director of Intelligent Energy Limited in July 2012 and he received fees totalling 40,000 up to 31 December 2013 2012: 16,666 from appointment in July 2012.
Warren East who retired on 30 June 2013 is a non-executive director of fide La Rue plc and he received remuneration totalling 26,100 up to the date of his retirement 2012: 49,000 for the full year.
Mike Inglis who retired on 31 March 2013 was a non-executive director of Pace plc and he received remuneration totalling 10,500 up to the date of his retirement.
All of the executive directors are accruing benefits under a money purchase pension scheme as a result of their services to the Group.
Contributions to the scheme or the alternative cash allowance as described in the Pensions section above were fully paid during the year.
The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board and signed on its behalf by philip rowley Remuneration Committee Chairman until 31 December 2013 5 March 2014 54 Governance financial report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc report on the group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements, defined below: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Group financial statements, which are prepared by ARM Holdings plc, comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2013: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity and consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended: and the notes to the Group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements comprises applicable law and IFRSs asadopted by the European Union.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and areidentified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Group financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
overview of our audit approach Materiality We set certain thresholds for materiality.
These helped us to determine the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole to be 13.2 million.
We based this assessment on the Groups profit before exceptional items and taxation, being, in our view, the most relevant measure of performance of the Group.
Materiality was calculated as 5% of this performance measure.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.6 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Overview of the scope of our audit The Group financial statements are a consolidation of 27 companies, comprising the Groups operating businesses and head office entities.
Our Group audit focused on the two largest companies of the Group ARM Limited and ARM Inc. which contribute substantially all of the Groups third party revenue and profits and more than 80% of the Groups expenses and net assets.
We performed full scope audit procedures at ARM Limited and ARM Inc. We also performed audit procedures over certain account balances and transaction classes at otherGroup companies Substantially all audit work in respect of the Group financial statements was performed by the Group engagement team, with the assistance ofauditors from other PwC network firms in respect of specific account balances or transaction classes at some Group companies.
55 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc continued Areas of particular audit focus In preparing the financial statements, the directors made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We primarily focused our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
In our audit, we tested and examined information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we considered necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtained audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
We considered the following areas to be those that required particular focus in the current year.
This is not a complete list of all risks or areas of focus identified by our audit.
We discussed these areas of focus with the Audit Committee.
Their report on those matters that they considered to be significant issues in relation to the financial statements is set out on page 15.
Revenue recognition The timing of revenue recognition, particularly licence revenue, is inherently complex.
Recognition of license revenue involves a number of significant judgements by the directors, including the following: determining whether contracts contain deliverables which should be separated for revenue recognition purposes and the most appropriate revenue recognition methodology for those contracts: determining the allocation of consideration on a fair value basis between components of multi-element contracts and whether the consideration is deemed probable where a contract incorporates extended payment terms: and assessing the degree of completion of contracts accounted for on a percentage of completion basis.
Refer also to note 1b to the Group financial statements.
In addition, ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud in revenue recognition for every audit conducted under these auditing standards because of the pressure management may feel to achieve the planned results.
How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated the relevant IT systems and tested the internal controls over the completeness, accuracy and timing of revenue recognised.
We read a sample of contracts selected on a high value basis and assessed whether the revenue recognition methodology is consistent with accounting standards.
We evaluated the significant judgements and estimates made by management in applying the Groups policy to specific contracts and obtained evidence, including contractual agreements, delivery records, cash receipts and project plans.
For the contracts selected we re-performed managements calculations and agreed the revenue recognised to the underlying accounting records.
In response to the presumed risk of fraud, where revenue was recorded through journal entries we performed testing over a sample of journals to establish whether revenue was appropriately recognised.
Litigation and accounting for responses to Intellectual Property IP risk The Group has, directly and through indemnity provisions in its contracts with customers, exposure to patent infringement disputes.
Judgements are made in determining the extent and amount of any provisions.
In addition, the Group has engaged in arrangements to obtain IP rights, and judgements are made in determining the most appropriate accounting treatment in this regard.
How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus We discussed litigation with the Groups in-house legal counsel and obtained confirmations from external legal advisors.
We assessed the adequacy of any provisions recognised and disclosures made in the Group financial statements.
We examined the Groups arrangements in response to litigation and IP risk and considered their accounting treatment.
Where indemnification costs with a licensee and litigation settlements through purchase of a licence were expensed during the year, we vouched to evidence of payment and examined relevant contracts.
In respect of ARMs contribution to a consortium to acquire rights over the patents of MIPS Technologies Inc. we evaluated the accounting treatment adopted and considered the assumptions made in valuing the available-for-sale asset acquired and its subsequent impairment.
We also examined evidence demonstrating the future use of the patents acquired in ARMs roadmap and assessed the assumptions used that support the carrying value in the balance sheet.
56 Governance financial report Goodwill impairment assessment The assessment of the value in use of the Physical Intellectual Property Division PIPD for the purpose of assessing whether the carrying value of goodwill is impaired involves significant judgement from the directors.
These judgements include estimates of the projected future results of PIPD and the allocation of revenue to PIPD from the Processor Division PD to reflect an estimate of the arms length incremental benefit accruing to PD from PIPD activity.
Refer also to note 13 to the Group financial statements.
How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus We reviewed the methodology used in the directors cash flow projections, and the process by which they were drawn up, including reconciling them to the latest Board-approved budgets, and testing the accuracy of the underlying calculations.
We challenged: the estimates underlying the allocation of revenues from PD to PIPD by assessing the historical and projected growth in POP IP and the reasonableness of the proportion of this revenue allocated to PIPD: the directors key assumptions for long term growth rates in the forecasts by comparing them to external analysts and industry expert forecasts: and the discount rate by comparing to our own estimate of the cost of capital for the company.
We also performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers: including the cross-allocation of revenues to PIPD from other divisions of the ARM group, and the growth and discount rates used within the cash flow forecasts.
Risk of management override of internal controls ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus We assessed the overall control environment of the Group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the Groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by management.
In particular, we challenged management over the estimates and judgements made in respect of the annual goodwill impairment review and revenue recognition.
We also performed testing over manual journal entries.
going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 23, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the Groups financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
opinion on matters prescribed by the Companies act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
57 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc continued other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made, and under the Listing Rules we are required to review certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
We have no exceptions to report arising from these responsibilities.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
On page 15 of the Annual Report, as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, the directors state that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
On page 15, as required by C3.8 of the Code, the Audit Committee has set out the significant issues that it considered in relation to the financial statements, and how they were addressed.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: the statement given by the directors is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
other information in the annual report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Group financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
58 Governance financial report responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our priorconsent in writing.
other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Charles Bowman Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 5 March 2014 59 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Consolidated income statement Consolidated balance sheet 2013 2012 2013 2012 Note m m Note m m For the year ended 31 December At 31 December Assets Revenues 2 714.6 576.9 Current assets: Cost of revenues 39.3 31.9 Cash and cash equivalents 17 43.8 46.3 Gross profit 675.3 545.0 Short-term deposits 17 544.1 340.0 Operating expenses Fair value of currency exchange contracts 17 5.1 1.4 Research and development 202.9 166.3 Accounts receivable 9 136.2 124.5 Sales and marketing 89.4 72.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 11, 17 1.2 General and administrative 128.2 97.7 Prepaid expenses and other assets 10 39.8 135.6 Total operating expenses before exceptional items 420.5 336.9 Current tax assets 6.9 13.9 Exceptional items 6 101.3 Inventories 3.0 2.3 Total operating expenses after exceptional items 521.8 336.9 Total current assets 780.1 664.0 Profit from operations 153.5 208.1 Non-current assets: Long-term deposits 17 125.6 141.3 Investment income 13.3 13.9 Loans and receivables 17 3.0 2.1 Interest payable and similar charges 0.2 0.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 11, 17 13.9 13.8 Share of results in joint venture 26 4.0 0.7 Investment in joint venture 26 6.5 6.8 Profit before tax 2, 5 162.6 221.0 Prepaid expenses and other assets 10 1.6 2.0 Tax including 8.6 million in respect of exceptional items 7 57.8 60.3 Property, plant and equipment 12 33.6 36.1 Profit for the year 2 104.8 160.7 Goodwill 13 525.9 519.4 Earnings per share Other intangible assets 14 82.9 11.2 Basic and diluted earnings 104.8 160.7 Deferred tax assets 7 65.3 70.1 Number of shares millions Total non-current assets 858.3 802.8 Basic weighted average number of shares 1,396.4 1,375.1 Total assets 1,638.4 1,466.8 Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes 15.4 20.7 Liabilities Current liabilities: Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,411.8 1,395.8 Accounts payable 17 7.0 5.9 Basic EPS 7.5p 11.7p Embedded derivatives 17 7.0 2.5 Diluted EPS 7.4p 11.5p Accrued and other liabilities 15 88.1 79.3 All the profit for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to continuing operations.
The Company has opted Finance lease liabilities 16 2.7 2.9 Current tax liabilities 18.8 16.6 to present its own accounts under UK GAAP as shown on pages 109 to 114.
Deferred revenue 156.7 126.4 Details of dividends paid and proposed are in notes 8 and 25 of the financial statements respectively.
Total current liabilities 280.3 233.6 Non-current liabilities: Accrued and other liabilities 15 2.6 Finance lease liabilities 16 1.5 2.9 Deferred tax liabilities 7 0.1 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Deferred revenue 42.5 24.2 Total non-current liabilities 46.7 27.1 Total liabilities 327.0 260.7 1,206.1 Net assets 1,311.4 2013 2012 For the year ended 31 December Note m m Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company Profit for the year 104.8 160.7 Share capital 18 0.7 0.7 Share premium account 18.1 12.2 Other comprehensive income: Capital reserve 354.3 354.3 Unrealised holding loss on available-for-sale financial assets net of tax of nil 2012: 0.1m 11 0.3 Share option reserve 61.4 61.4 Currency translation adjustment 17.9 26.8 Retained earnings 820.6 703.3 Other comprehensive loss for the year 17.9 27.1 Cumulative translation adjustment 56.3 74.2 Total comprehensive income for the year 86.9 133.6 Total equity 1,311.4 1,206.1 These items may be reclassified to the income statement if certain conditions are met.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
The financial statements on pages 60 to 108 were approved by the Board The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
of directors on 5 March 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: Simon Segars, Chief Executive Officer Tim Score, Chief Financial Officer 60 017043 ARM GovernanceFinancials 2013 WORD.
indd 60 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Consolidated income statement Consolidated balance sheet 2013 2012 2013 2012 Note m m Note m m For the year ended 31 December At 31 December Assets Revenues 2 714.6 576.9 Current assets: Cost of revenues 39.3 31.9 Cash and cash equivalents 17 43.8 46.3 Gross profit 675.3 545.0 Short-term deposits 17 544.1 340.0 Operating expenses Fair value of currency exchange contracts 17 5.1 1.4 Research and development 202.9 166.3 Accounts receivable 9 136.2 124.5 Sales and marketing 89.4 72.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 11, 17 1.2 General and administrative 128.2 97.7 Prepaid expenses and other assets 10 39.8 135.6 Total operating expenses before exceptional items 420.5 336.9 Current tax assets 6.9 13.9 Exceptional items 6 101.3 Inventories 3.0 2.3 Total operating expenses after exceptional items 521.8 336.9 Total current assets 780.1 664.0 Profit from operations 153.5 208.1 Non-current assets: Long-term deposits 17 125.6 141.3 Investment income 13.3 13.9 Loans and receivables 17 3.0 2.1 Interest payable and similar charges 0.2 0.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 11, 17 13.9 13.8 Share of results in joint venture 26 4.0 0.7 Investment in joint venture 26 6.5 6.8 Profit before tax 2, 5 162.6 221.0 Prepaid expenses and other assets 10 1.6 2.0 Tax including 8.6 million in respect of exceptional items 7 57.8 60.3 Property, plant and equipment 12 33.6 36.1 Profit for the year 2 104.8 160.7 Goodwill 13 525.9 519.4 Earnings per share Other intangible assets 14 82.9 11.2 Basic and diluted earnings 104.8 160.7 Deferred tax assets 7 65.3 70.1 Number of shares millions Total non-current assets 858.3 802.8 Basic weighted average number of shares 1,396.4 1,375.1 Total assets 1,638.4 1,466.8 Effect of dilutive securities: Employee incentive schemes 15.4 20.7 Liabilities Current liabilities: Diluted weighted average number of shares 1,411.8 1,395.8 Accounts payable 17 7.0 5.9 Basic EPS 7.5p 11.7p Embedded derivatives 17 7.0 2.5 Diluted EPS 7.4p 11.5p Accrued and other liabilities 15 88.1 79.3 All the profit for the year is attributable to the owners of the Company and all activities relate to continuing operations.
of directors on 5 March 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: Simon Segars, Chief Executive Officer Tim Score, Chief Financial Officer 61 017043 ARM GovernanceFinancials 2013 WORD.
indd 61 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity 2013 2012 Note m m For the year ended 31 December Profit before tax 162.6 221.0 Attributable to the owners of the Company Investment income net of interest payable and similar charges 13.1 13.6 Share Share Cumulative Share premium Capital option Retained Revaluation translation Share of results in joint venture 4.0 0.7 capital account reserve reserve earnings reserve adjustment Total Profit from operations 153.5 208.1 m m m m m m m m For the year ended 31 December Adjustments for: Balance at 1 January 2012 0.7 6.6 351.6 61.4 539.6 0.3 101.0 1,061.2 Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 28.0 17.4 Profit for the year 160.7 160.7 Compensation charge in respect of share-based payments 59.2 37.1 Other comprehensive income: Provision for impairment of available-for-sale financial assets including non-cash exceptional item of 59.5 million 66.3 1.4 Unrealised holding loss on available-for-sale Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 3.3 0.8 financial assets net of tax of 0.1 million 0.3 0.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 Currency translation adjustment 26.8 26.8 Provision for doubtful debts 4.0 0.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 160.7 0.3 26.8 133.6 Non-cash foreign currency gains 3.6 0.7 Shares issued on exercise of share options and awards note 18 5.6 5.6 Movement in fair value of currency exchange contracts 3.7 2.9 Dividends note 8 51.8 51.8 Movement in fair value of embedded derivatives 4.4 3.7 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 37.1 37.1 Changes in working capital Movement on tax arising on share options Accounts receivable 19.8 5.7 and awards 17.7 17.7 Inventories 0.7 0.1 Refund of costs related to share issue 2.7 2.7 Prepaid expenses and other assets 8.8 1.1 5.6 2.7 3.0 11.3 Accounts payable 1.1 2.8 74.2 1,206.1 Balance at 31 December 2012 0.7 12.2 354.3 61.4 703.3 Deferred revenue 53.1 37.3 Profit for the year 104.8 104.8 Accrued and other liabilities 8.3 4.8 Other comprehensive income: Cash generated by operations before tax 338.6 286.7 Currency translation adjustment 17.9 17.9 Income taxes paid 23.3 26.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 104.8 17.9 86.9 Net cash from operating activities 315.3 260.6 Shares issued on exercise of share options and Investing activities awards note 18 5.9 5.9 Interest received net of interest paid of 0.2m 2012: 0.3m 13.2 11.2 Dividends note 8 68.9 68.9 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 13.5 20.2 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 59.2 59.2 Advance payment to acquire intangible asset and available-for-sale financial asset 10 103.7 Movement on tax arising on share options Purchases of other intangible assets 31.8 5.4 and awards 22.2 22.2 Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets 11 8.9 3.0 5.9 12.5 18.4 Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 5.5 11.8 Balance at 31 December 2013 0.7 18.1 354.3 61.4 820.6 56.3 1,311.4 Purchase of shortand long-term deposits, net 188.5 76.8 Capital reserve.
In 2004, the premium on the shares issued in part consideration for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. was credited to reserves on consolidation in accordance with Section Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash and borrowings acquired 19 21.1 131 of the Companies Act 1985.
The reserve has been classified as a capital reserve to reflect the nature of the original credit to equity arising on acquisition.
Investment in joint venture 26 3.7 7.5 Share option reserve.
This represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.
Provision of long-term loan 0.7 Revaluation reserve.
The Group includes on its balance sheet equity investments that are not publicly traded, which are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
These are carried at fair value plus Net cash used in investing activities 249.5 193.6 transaction costs.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such investments are included, net of related taxes, within the revaluation reserve except where there is evidence of permanent impairment, in which case losses would be recognised within the income statement.
Any unrealised gains within this reserve are undistributable.
Financing activities Refund of costs related to share issue.
This represents the refund of stamp duty costs incurred on the issue of shares for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.
Proceeds from borrowings 99.8 Proceeds received on issuance of shares 18 5.9 5.6 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
Refund of costs related to share issue 2.7 Dividends paid to shareholders 8 68.9 51.8 Repayment of borrowings 1.1 99.8 Repayment of finance lease liabilities 3.3 3.3 Net cash used in financing activities 67.4 46.8 1.6 20.2 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 46.3 26.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.9 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 43.8 46.3 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
indd 62 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity 2013 2012 Note m m For the year ended 31 December Profit before tax 162.6 221.0 Attributable to the owners of the Company Investment income net of interest payable and similar charges 13.1 13.6 Share Share Cumulative Share premium Capital option Retained Revaluation translation Share of results in joint venture 4.0 0.7 capital account reserve reserve earnings reserve adjustment Total Profit from operations 153.5 208.1 m m m m m m m m For the year ended 31 December Adjustments for: Balance at 1 January 2012 0.7 6.6 351.6 61.4 539.6 0.3 101.0 1,061.2 Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 28.0 17.4 Profit for the year 160.7 160.7 Compensation charge in respect of share-based payments 59.2 37.1 Other comprehensive income: Provision for impairment of available-for-sale financial assets including non-cash exceptional item of 59.5 million 66.3 1.4 Unrealised holding loss on available-for-sale Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 3.3 0.8 financial assets net of tax of 0.1 million 0.3 0.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 Currency translation adjustment 26.8 26.8 Provision for doubtful debts 4.0 0.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 160.7 0.3 26.8 133.6 Non-cash foreign currency gains 3.6 0.7 Shares issued on exercise of share options and awards note 18 5.6 5.6 Movement in fair value of currency exchange contracts 3.7 2.9 Dividends note 8 51.8 51.8 Movement in fair value of embedded derivatives 4.4 3.7 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 37.1 37.1 Changes in working capital Movement on tax arising on share options Accounts receivable 19.8 5.7 and awards 17.7 17.7 Inventories 0.7 0.1 Refund of costs related to share issue 2.7 2.7 Prepaid expenses and other assets 8.8 1.1 5.6 2.7 3.0 11.3 Accounts payable 1.1 2.8 Balance at 31 December 2012 0.7 12.2 354.3 61.4 703.3 74.2 1,206.1 Deferred revenue 53.1 37.3 Profit for the year 104.8 104.8 Accrued and other liabilities 8.3 4.8 Other comprehensive income: Cash generated by operations before tax 338.6 286.7 Currency translation adjustment 17.9 17.9 Income taxes paid 23.3 26.1 Total comprehensive income for the year 104.8 17.9 86.9 Net cash from operating activities 315.3 260.6 Shares issued on exercise of share options and Investing activities awards note 18 5.9 5.9 Interest received net of interest paid of 0.2m 2012: 0.3m 13.2 11.2 Dividends note 8 68.9 68.9 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 13.5 20.2 Credit in respect of employee share schemes 59.2 59.2 Advance payment to acquire intangible asset and available-for-sale financial asset 10 103.7 Movement on tax arising on share options Purchases of other intangible assets 31.8 5.4 and awards 22.2 22.2 Purchases of available-for-sale financial assets 11 8.9 3.0 5.9 12.5 18.4 Proceeds on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 5.5 11.8 Balance at 31 December 2013 0.7 18.1 354.3 61.4 820.6 56.3 1,311.4 Purchase of shortand long-term deposits, net 188.5 76.8 Capital reserve.
indd 63 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements 1 The Group and a summary of its significant accounting policies and financial risk management 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 1a General information about the Group Impairment of goodwill The business of the Group The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units CGUs to ARM Holdings plc and its subsidiary companies ARM or the Group design microprocessors, physical IP and related technology and software, which goodwill is allocated.
As discussed in detail in note 13, estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected and sell development tools, to enhance the performance, cost-effectiveness and energy-efficiency of high-volume embedded applications.
future cash flows from the CGUs and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present values of those cash flows.
The The Group licenses and sells its technology and products to leading international electronics companies, which in turn manufacture, market and sell discount rate is based on an estimate of the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The Group uses a post-tax discount rate of 10% 2012: microcontrollers, application-specific integrated circuits ASICs and application-specific standard processors ASSPs based on ARMs technology 10% pre-tax discount rate of approximately 11% 2012: 11%.
to systems companies for incorporation into a wide variety of end products.
The most significant balance of goodwill is that allocated to the Physical IP Division PIPD.
The cash flows relevant to this CGU are those of both By creating a network of Partners, and working with them to best utilise ARMs technology, the Group is establishing its processor architecture the division itself and also a proportion of the cash flows generated by the Processor Division PD.
The directors make an estimate of the PD cash and physical IP for use in many high-volume embedded microprocessor applications, including mobile phones, tablets, digital televisions and PC flows that are considered to be generated as a result of the incremental value provided by the combination of PD and PIPD products.
Although peripherals, enterprise networking and servers, and smart cards and microcontrollers.
these PD cash flows are not cross allocated to PIPD in the segmental reporting note, the directors consider that it is necessary to include them in the estimation of the value in use of the PIPD CGU.
This is because PD products are enhanced when combined with certain PIPD products.
As a The Group also licenses and sells development tools direct to systems companies and provides support services to its licensees, systems result the directors believe that PD is able, and will be able in future, to achieve higher revenues than it would have done as a stand-alone entity.
companies and other systems designers.
The amount of these revenues is estimated by considering the percentage of revenue that is achieved as a result of the combination for each class The Groups principal geographic markets are Europe, the US and Asia Pacific.
While these percentages are not derived from external sources of information, as no such sources exist, the directors utilise their considerable knowledge and experience of the semiconductor industry in estimating the amounts that would be re-charged if PD and PIPD were Incorporation and history independent entities.
Among other things, they consider the number of additional licences that may be signed and the additional value that may be ARM is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled under the laws of England and Wales.
The registered office of the Company is achieved per licence as a result of the processors enhanced performance.
Revenue recognition The Company was formed on 16 October 1990, as a joint venture between Apple Computer UK Limited and Acorn Computers Limited, and The Group makes significant estimates in applying its revenue recognition policies.
In particular, as discussed in detail in the revenue recognition operated under the name Advanced RISC Machines Holdings Limited until 10 March 1998, when its name was changed to ARM Holdings plc.
Its policy on page 68, estimates are made in relation to the use of the  accounting method, which requires that the extent initial public offering was on 17 April 1998. of progress toward completion of contracts can be anticipated with reasonable certainty.
The use of the  method is itself Group undertakings include ARM Limited incorporated in the UK, Geomerics Limited incorporated in the UK, ARM France SAS incorporated based on the assumption that, at the outset of licence agreements, there is an insignificant risk that customer acceptance is not obtained.
The in France, ARM Germany GmbH incorporated in Germany, ARM Norway AS incorporated in Norway, ARM Sweden AB incorporated in Group also makes assessments, based on prior experience, of the extent to which future milestone receipts represent a probable future Sweden, ARM Finland Oy incorporated in Finland, ARM Inc. incorporated in the US, ARM Consulting Shanghai Co. Limited incorporated in economic benefit to the Group.
In addition, when allocating revenue to various components of arrangements involving several components, it PR China, ARM KK incorporated in Japan, ARM Korea Limited incorporated in South Korea, ARM Taiwan Limited incorporated in Taiwan, is assumed that the fair value of each element is reflected by its price when sold separately.
The complexity of the estimation process and issues and ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
related to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties inherent with the application of the revenue recognition policy affect the amounts reported in the financial statements.
If different assumptions were used, it is possible that different amounts would be reported in the financial statements.
1b Summary of significant accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been Provisions for income taxes consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Significant judgement is required in determining the world-wide provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of Basis of preparation business.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
Where the These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and by the EU, IFRIC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost convention as Legal settlements and other contingencies modified by: the revaluation to fair value of available-for-sale financial assets: financial assets and liabilities at fair value through the income statement Determining the amount to be accrued for legal settlements requires the directors to estimate the committed future legal and settlement fees including embedded derivatives and derivative instruments.
the Group is expecting to incur, either where suits are filed against the Group for infringement of patents, or where the Group may be required The cash flow statement for 2012 includes a reclassification in respect of the advance payment to acquire rights to MIPS Technologies, Inc. s to indemnify a licensee.
The directors assess the extent of any potential infringement based on legal advice and written opinions received from portfolio of patents.
103.7 million has been moved from prepayments and other assets within working capital movements to advance payment external counsel and then estimate the level of accrual required.
to acquire intangible asset and available-for-sale AFS financial asset within investing activities.
The reclassification has been made to better reflect Contingent consideration for an acquisition is recognised at fair value as part of the purchase consideration if the contingent conditions are the nature of the payment following the completion of the transaction in 2013. expected to be satisfied.
This requires the directors to estimate the acquirees future financial performance, typically more than one year Critical accounting estimates and judgements post-acquisition.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the directors to make critical accounting estimates and judgements that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
These estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experiences and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
indd 64 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements 1 The Group and a summary of its significant accounting policies and financial risk management 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 1a General information about the Group Impairment of goodwill The business of the Group The Group tests goodwill for impairment at least annually.
indd 65 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued New standards, amendments and interpretations Participation in trust to acquire patent rights New and amended standards adopted by the Group During 2013, the Group has participated in a consortium, via a trust, to acquire certain patent rights and has made various judgements regarding IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 10 replaces the guidance on control and consolidation in IAS 27 Consolidated and separate these transactions.
financial statements, and SIC-12 Consolidation special purpose entities and changes the definition of control so that the same criteria are applied to all entities.
The revised definition of control focuses on the need to have both power and variable returns before control is present.
The directors believe that the Group does not control or have significant influence over the trust since, amongst other factors it does not have Power is the current ability to direct the activities that significantly influence returns.
Returns must vary and can be positive, negative or both.
This voting rights on the board or significant influence over the relevant activities of the trust.
The results of the trust have therefore not been standard has not had a material impact on the results of the Group.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January consolidated or equity accounted in the Group financial statements.
The Group has determined that the participation in the consortium conferred 2014 but has been early adopted by the Group.
on the Group two separate rights: an intangible asset, conferring the right to use the assets in the Groups own business, and an AFS financial asset conferring the right to certain potential future revenue streams arising from the licensing activities of the trust.
The amount expected to be IFRS 11 Joint arrangements Changes in the definitions have reduced the types of joint arrangements to two: joint operations and joint recovered through this licensing programme was estimated by the Group in conjunction with the management of the trust, which has ventures.
The existing policy choice of proportionate consolidation for jointly controlled entities has been eliminated.
Equity accounting is considerable experience of managing the assets of similar trusts.
mandatory for participants in joint ventures.
Entities that participate in joint operations will follow accounting much like that for joint assets or joint operations today, whereby a joint operator will recognise its interest based on its involvement in the joint operation that is, based on its direct The Group assesses its intangible assets for impairment at each reporting date and has reviewed the valuation of the patent rights acquired in this rights and obligations rather than on the participation interest it has in the joint arrangement.
In contrast, a joint venture does not have rights to transaction.
Given the design freedom that these rights provide and the size of the future opportunity afforded, the directors have concluded that individual assets or obligations for individual liabilities of the joint venture.
Instead, joint venturers share in the net assets and, in turn, the outcome no impairment of the patent rights is required.
profit or loss of the activity undertaken by the joint venture.
This standard has not had a material impact on the results of the Group.
This In Q4 2013, the trust made a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing programme and the portfolio was instead put up for sale by auction.
standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but has been early adopted by the Group.
The Group acquired the patents in January 2014 for $4.0 million 2.4 million, which will be accounted for as an additional intangible asset.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities IFRS 12 sets out the required disclosures for entities reporting under the two new standards, The auction process means that there are no further potential cash flows in relation to the AFS financial asset and the asset has therefore been IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, and IFRS 11 Joint arrangements.
The new standard, IFRS 12, requires entities to disclose impaired down to the value of the Groups share of the auction proceeds, resulting in a non-cash exceptional charge of $98.5 million information that helps financial statement readers to evaluate the nature, risks and financial effects associated with the entitys interests in 59.5 million.
subsidiaries, associates, joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured entities.
This standard has not had a material impact on the results Provision for impairment of trade receivables of the Group.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but has been early adopted by the Group.
The Group assesses trade receivables for impairment which requires the directors to estimate the likelihood of payment forfeiture by customers.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement The requirements do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards.
IFRS 13 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and was endorsed by the EU in December 2012.
The Group has included the relevant disclosure requirements within note 1c Financial risk management, and note 17 Financial instruments.
IAS 28 Revised Investments in associates and joint ventures IAS 28 defines significant influence and the equity method and provides guidance on their practical application.
The revised standard incorporates the accounting for joint ventures as well as the consensus from SIC-13 Jointly controlled entities.
The disclosure requirements have now been relocated to IFRS 12.
This new guidance may impact the classification of investments acquired in the future.
This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but has been early adopted by the Group.
Amendment to IAS 1 Financial statement presentation The main change resulting from this amendment is a requirement for entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income OCI on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to the income statement subsequently reclassification adjustments.
This standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2012 and was endorsed by the EU in June 2012.
The Group has included relevant disclosures within the financial statements.
IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate financial statements This standard includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10.
This standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but has been early adopted by the Group.
There has been no material impact on the Group.
Amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of assets This amendment relates to the recoverable amount disclosures for non-financial assets.
The amendment removes certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of CGUs that had been included in IAS 36 by the issue of IFRS 13.
The amendment is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 but has been early adopted by the Group.
indd 66 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued New standards, amendments and interpretations Participation in trust to acquire patent rights New and amended standards adopted by the Group During 2013, the Group has participated in a consortium, via a trust, to acquire certain patent rights and has made various judgements regarding IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements IFRS 10 replaces the guidance on control and consolidation in IAS 27 Consolidated and separate these transactions.
indd 67 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued New standards, amendments and interpretations continued Revenue recognition continued Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted The majority of the Groups revenues come from the licensing of IP and subsequent receipt of royalty revenues and there are therefore very few direct costs associated with the sale of goods: where there are direct costs of revenues, these are measured with reference to the purchasing IFRS 9 Financial instruments addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
This is the first part of a new agreements in place with the Groups suppliers.
IFRS 9 has two measurement categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity instruments are measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent Many licence agreements are for products which are designed to meet the specific requirements of each customer.
Revenue from the sale of principal and interest.
Otherwise it is measured at fair value through the income statement.
This standard is not expected to have a material impact such licences is recognised on a  basis over the period from signing of the licence to customer acceptance.
Under the on the results of the Group.
Published by the IASB in November 2009, the effective date is currently open, pending the finalisation of the  method, provisions for estimated losses on uncompleted contracts are recognised in the period in which the likelihood impairment, and classification and measurement requirements.
This standard is not yet endorsed by the EU.
of such losses is determined.
The  is measured by monitoring progress using records of actual time incurred to date in the project compared with the total estimated project requirement, which approximates to the extent of performance.
Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation This amendment updates the application guidance in IAS 32 to clarify some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the balance sheet.
This standard is effective for accounting periods beginning Where invoicing milestones in licence arrangements are such that the receipts fall due significantly outside the period over which the customisation on or after 1 January 2014 and was endorsed by the EU in December 2012.
It is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
is expected to be performed or significantly outside its normal payment terms for standard licence arrangements, the Group evaluates whether it is probable that economic benefits associated with these milestones will flow to the Group and therefore whether these receipts should initially be Revenue recognition included in the arrangement consideration.
The Group follows the principles of IAS 18, Revenue recognition, in determining appropriate revenue recognition policies.
In principle, therefore, revenue associated with the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: In particular, it considers: The Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods.
whether there is sufficient certainty that the invoice will be raised in the expected timeframe, particularly where the invoicing milestone is in some way dependent on customer activity: The Group does not retain either continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership or effective control over the goods sold.
whether it has sufficient evidence that the customer considers that the Groups contractual obligations have been, or will be, fulfilled: The amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
whether there is sufficient certainty that only those costs expected to be incurred will indeed be incurred before the customer will accept that a future invoice may be raised: It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
the extent to which previous experience with similar product groups and similar customers supports the conclusions reached.
The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
Where the Group considers that there is insufficient evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with such future milestones Revenue associated with the rendering of services is recognised when all of the following conditions have been satisfied: will flow to the Group, taking into account these criteria, such milestones are excluded from the arrangement consideration until there is sufficient The amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
evidence that it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
The Group does not discount future invoicing milestones, as the effect of so doing would be immaterial.
It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Where agreements involve several components, the entire fee from such arrangements is allocated to each of the individual components based The stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting period can be measured reliably.
on each components fair value, where fair value is the price that is regularly charged for an item when sold separately.
Where a component in a The costs incurred for the transaction and the costs to complete the transaction can be measured reliably.
multiple-component agreement has not previously been sold separately, the assessment of fair value for that component is based on other factors including, but not limited to, the price charged when it was sold alongside other items and the book price of the component relative to the book Revenue is shown net of value added tax, returns, rebates and discounts, and after eliminating sales within the Group.
prices of the other components in the agreement.
If fair value of one or more components in a multiple-component agreement is not Revenue comprises the value of sales of licences to ARM technology, royalties arising from the resulting sale of licensees ARM technology-based determinable where such component is not considered incidental to the overall arrangement, the entire arrangement fee is deferred until such products, revenues from support, maintenance and training and the sale of development boards and software toolkits.
fair value is determinable, or the component has been delivered to the licensee.
Where, in substance, two or more elements of a contract are linked and fair values cannot be allocated to the individual components, the revenue recognition criteria are applied to the elements as if they were Licence revenues: a single element.
Revenue from standard licence products that are not modified to meet the specific requirements of each customer is recognised when all of the conditions relevant to revenue associated with the sale of goods have been satisfied: Agreements including rights to unspecified future products as opposed to unspecified upgrades and enhancements are accounted for using subscription accounting, with revenue from the arrangement being recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement, or an The significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred when a licence arrangement has been agreed and the IP has been delivered estimate of the economic life of the products offered if no term is specified, beginning with the delivery of the first product.
Royalty revenues: Continuing managerial involvement and effective control over licensed IP is relinquished at the point at which the IP is delivered to the customer.
Royalty revenues are earned on sales by the Groups customers of products containing ARM technology.
Royalty revenues are recognised when it The amount of revenue can be measured reliably: any consideration due under the licensing arrangement that is not deemed to be reliably is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group, the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, measurable is deferred until it can be measured reliably.
and when the Group receives notification from the customer of product sales.
Notification is typically received in the quarter following shipment of the products by the customer.
It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: any economic benefits of the transaction that are deemed unlikely to flow to the Group are deferred until it becomes probable that they will flow to the Group.
indd 68 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued New standards, amendments and interpretations continued Revenue recognition continued Standards, amendments and interpretations that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted The majority of the Groups revenues come from the licensing of IP and subsequent receipt of royalty revenues and there are therefore very few direct costs associated with the sale of goods: where there are direct costs of revenues, these are measured with reference to the purchasing IFRS 9 Financial instruments addresses the classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities.
indd 69 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued Income taxes Other revenues: The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries In addition to licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-delivery service support in the form of support, maintenance where the Groups subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with and training which consists of the right to receive services and or unspecified product upgrades or enhancements that are offered on a whenrespect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of and-if-available basis.
Fees for post-delivery service support are generally specified in the contract.
Revenue related to post-delivery service support amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
is recognised based on fair value, which is determined with reference to contractual renewal rates.
Where renewal rates are specified, revenue for During the period legislation was enacted to allow UK companies to elect for the Research and Development Expenditure Credit RDEC on post-delivery service support is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period for which support and maintenance is contractually agreed by qualifying expenditure incurred since 1 April 2013, instead of the existing super-deduction rules.
At the balance sheet date management has the Group with the licensee.
concluded that the election will be made and therefore the RDEC is recorded as income included in profit before tax, netted against research and Sales of software, including development systems, which are not specifically designed for a given licence such as off-the-shelf software are development expenses as the RDEC is of the nature of a government grant.
In previous periods there was a reduction in the income tax expense.
recognised upon delivery, when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer.
At that time, the Group has Deferred income taxes are computed using the liability method.
Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on no further obligations except that, where necessary, the costs associated with providing post-delivery service support have been accrued.
Services temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using enacted rates and laws that will such as training that the Group provides which are not essential to the functionality of the IP are separately stated and priced in the contract and, be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse.
The deferred tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or therefore, accounted for separately.
Revenue is recognised as services are performed and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
the transaction will flow to the Group.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will arise against which the temporary differences will For all types of revenue, if the amount of revenue recognised exceeds the amounts invoiced to customers, the excess amount is recorded as be utilised.
amounts recoverable on contracts within accounts receivable.
The excess of licence fees and post-delivery service support invoiced over revenue Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary recognised is recorded as deferred revenue.
difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets Intangible assets and liabilities arising in the same tax jurisdiction are offset, where the taxation authority permits a single net payment.
a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration paid on acquisition of a business over the fair value of the In the period a decision to elect into the UK patent box regime was made.
The UK patent box regime seeks to tax all profits attributable to assets, including any intangible assets identified, and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill is not amortised but is measured at cost less impairment losses.
patented technology at a reduced rate of 10%.
The rules are to be phased in over five years from 1 April 2013 a company will be entitled In determining the fair value of consideration, the fair value of equity issued is the market value of equity at the date of completion, the fair value to only 60% of the deduction in financial year 2013 14, rising to 100% by 2017 18.
As relevant patent box profits are taxed at 10% and other of share options is calculated using the Black-Scholes valuation model, and the fair value of contingent consideration is based upon whether the profits are taxed at UK statutory rates, deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the average rates expected to apply on realisation directors believe any performance conditions will be met and thus whether any further consideration will be payable.
b Other intangible assets Computer software, purchased patents and licences to use technology are capitalised at cost and amortised on In the UK and the US, the Group is entitled to a tax deduction for amounts treated as compensation on exercise of certain employee share a straight-line basis over an estimate of the time that the Group is expected to benefit from them.
Costs that are directly attributable to the options or vest of share awards under each jurisdictions tax rules.
As explained under Share-based payments below, a compensation expense development of new business application software and that are incurred during the period prior to the date that the software is placed into is recorded in the Groups income statement over the period from the grant date to the vesting date of the relevant options and awards.
As there operational use, are capitalised.
External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic benefit of the is a temporary difference between the accounting and tax bases, a deferred tax asset is recorded.
The deferred tax asset arising is calculated by asset.
comparing the estimated amount of tax deduction to be obtained in the future based on the Companys share price at the balance sheet date Although an independent valuation is made of any intangible assets purchased as part of a business combination, the directors are primarily with the cumulative amount of the compensation expense recorded in the income statement.
If the amount of estimated future tax deduction responsible for determining the fair value of intangible assets.
exceeds the cumulative amount of the compensation expense at the statutory rate, the excess is recorded directly in equity, against retained earnings.
In-process research and development projects purchased as part of a business combination may meet the criteria set out in IFRS 3 revised, Business combinations, for recognition as intangible assets other than goodwill.
Management tracks the status of in-process research and Impairment of assets development intangible assets such that their amortisation commences when the assets are brought into use.
Non-financial assets that have an indefinite useful life, for example goodwill, are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
Order backlog is derecognised when it has been fully amortised.
Non-financial assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Amortisation is calculated so as to write off the cost of intangible assets, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal economic lives An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the non-financial assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The used for this purpose are: recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
For purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows each a cash generating unit, CGU.
Where the recoverable Computer software Three to five years amount of a CGU is measured based on a value-in-use calculation, all cash inflows and outflows associated with the CGU are taken into account Patents and licences Three to eleven years whether these are explicitly charged or not.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
In-process research and development One to five years The annual impairment tests in 2013 and 2012 showed there was no impairment with respect to goodwill.
Furthermore, no trigger events have Developed technology One to seven years been identified that would suggest the impairment of any of the Groups other intangible assets.
Existing agreements and customer relationships One to six years The Group considers at each reporting date whether there is any indication that tangible fixed assets are impaired.
If there is such an indication, the Core technology Five years Group carries out an impairment test by measuring the assets recoverable amounts, which are the higher of the assets fair values less costs to sell and their values in use.
If the recoverable amounts are less than the carrying amounts an impairment loss is recognised, and the assets are written Trademarks and tradenames One to five years down to their recoverable amounts.
Order backlog One year 70 017043 ARM GovernanceFinancials 2013 WORD.
indd 70 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition continued Income taxes Other revenues: The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries In addition to licence fees, contracts generally contain an agreement to provide post-delivery service support in the form of support, maintenance where the Groups subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Order backlog One year 71 017043 ARM GovernanceFinancials 2013 WORD.
indd 71 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Impairment of assets continued Principles of consolidation continued In the case of equity securities classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an Associates indicator that the securities are permanently impaired.
If any such evidence exists for AFS financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any permanent impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss statement on equity instruments are not reversed.
of the investee after the date of acquisition.
When securities classified as AFS are sold, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised through other comprehensive income are recycled Joint ventures through the income statement.
Joint ventures are all arrangements in which the Group has joint control with one or more other parties, whereby each party has a right to a Impairment testing of trade receivables is described under Accounts receivable below.
share of the net assets of the arrangement.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the Provisions equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the Groups share Provisions for legal claims are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: and it is more of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition.
likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount of the outflow can be reliably estimated.
Research and development expenditure Exceptional items All ongoing research expenditure is expensed in the period in which it is incurred.
Where a product is technically feasible, production and sale are Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial intended, a market exists, expenditure can be measured reliably, and sufficient resources are available to complete the project, development costs performance of the Group.
They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature.
are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the respective product.
The Group believes its current Segment reporting process for developing products is essentially completed concurrently with the establishment of technological feasibility, which is evidenced by a At 31 December 2013, the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three business segments, namely the Processor Division PD, the working model.
Accordingly, development costs incurred after the establishment of technological feasibility have not been significant and, Physical IP Division PIPD and the System Design Division SDD.
This is based upon the Groups internal organisation and management structure therefore, no costs have been capitalised to date.
and is the primary way in which the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM and the rest of the Board are provided with financial information.
Where no internally-generated intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it The directors believe that the CODM is the Chief Executive Officer of the Group.
Any collaborative agreement whereby a third party agrees to partially fund the Groups research and development is recognised over Segment expenses are expenses that are directly attributable to a segment together with the relevant portion of other expenses that can the period of the agreement as a credit within research and development expenses.
reasonably be allocated by segment.
Foreign exchange gains or losses, investment income, interest payable and similar charges, share of joint Government grants venture results, and tax are not allocated by segment.
Grants in respect of specific research and development projects are recognised as receivable when there is reasonable assurance that they will be Segment assets and liabilities include items that are directly attributable to a segment plus an allocation on a reasonable basis of shared items.
received and the conditions to obtain them have been complied with.
They are credited to the income statement in the same period as the Corporate assets and liabilities are not included in business segments and are thus unallocated.
At 31 December 2013 and 2012, these comprised related research and development costs for which the grant is compensating.
The grant income is presented as a deduction from the related cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits, AFS financial assets, loans and receivables, embedded derivatives, and the fair value of expense.
Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities and VAT are also not included in business segments and are thus Share-based payments unallocated.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payments, equity-settled As part of the ongoing evolution of the business, the Groups divisional structure was re-organised on 1 January 2014.
As a result of this change, share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The fair the Groups business segments may change for future reporting periods in order to reflect this new organisation.
value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
Intra-group transactions, The Group operates Save As You Earn SAYE schemes in the UK and an Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP in the US, India, Japan, South including sales, profits, receivables and payables, have been eliminated on consolidation.
All subsidiaries use uniform accounting policies.
Options under the SAYE schemes are granted at a 20% discount to the market price of the underlying shares on the date of announcement of the scheme and at a 15% discount to the lower of the market prices at the beginning and end of the scheme for the ESPP.
The Business combinations UK SAYE schemes are approved by the UK tax authorities, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
The Group has The results of subsidiaries acquired are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
Assets and liabilities existing at the date recognised a compensation charge in respect of the SAYE plans and ESPPs.
The charges for these are calculated as detailed above.
of acquisition are recorded at their fair values reflecting their condition at that date.
The Group also has an LTIP on which it is also required to recognise a compensation charge under IFRS 2, calculated as detailed above.
Earn-outs paid as part of an acquisition are assessed on an individual basis and treated as either part of the acquisition consideration or as The share-based payments charge is allocated to cost of sales, research and development expenses, sales and marketing expenses, and general employee compensation depending on the nature of the agreement.
and administrative expenses on the basis of headcount.
Subsidiaries Employers taxes on share options Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, Employers National Insurance in the UK and equivalent taxes in other jurisdictions are payable on the exercise of certain share options and vesting or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
In accordance with IFRS 2, this is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
A provision is made, calculated using the intrinsic value of Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated from the date that the relevant options and awards at the balance sheet date, and pro-rated over the vesting period of the options and awards.
indd 72 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Impairment of assets continued Principles of consolidation continued In the case of equity securities classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost is considered as an Associates indicator that the securities are permanently impaired.
indd 73 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Retirement benefit costs Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges The Group contributes to defined contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and the US and to government pension Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges relate to interest income and expense, which is accrued on a time basis, by reference schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China, Israel and India.
The Group contributes to these plans based upon various fixed to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
percentages of employee compensation, and such contributions are expensed as incurred.
Dividends Operating leases Distributions to owners of the Company are not recognised in the income statement under IFRS, but are disclosed as a component of the Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Costs, net movement in shareholders equity.
A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim of any lease incentives, in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term even if payments are not made on dividends are recognised as a distribution when paid.
Earnings per share Finance leases Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the lessee are classified as finance leases.
Assets held shares in issue during the year, excluding those held as treasury stock, which are treated as cancelled.
under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease liability.
The Company had two categories of dilutive potential ordinary shares during the year: those being share options granted to payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the employees and directors where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year and the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
awards made under the Companys RSU, DAB plan, and LTIP schemes.
For 2013 and 2012, no shares that were allocated for awards under the Foreign currency translation LTIP were included in the diluted EPS calculation as the performance criteria could not be measured until the conclusion of the performance a Functional and presentation currency The functional currency of each Group entity is the currency of the primary economic environment period.
in which that entity operates.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the presentation currency of the Group.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are shown on the face of the consolidated income b Transactions and balances Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into the functional currency of each Group statement.
entity at actual rates of exchange at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated Cash and cash equivalents at closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences have been included in general and administrative expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held with banks, and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities c Group companies The results and financial positions of all Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy of three months or less.
The carrying amount approximates to fair value because of the short-term maturity of these instruments.
not based in the UK are translated into sterling as follows: Shortand long-term deposits i Assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
The Group considers all highly-liquid investments with original maturity dates of greater than three months and maturing in less than one year to be short-term deposits.
Deposits with a maturity date of greater than one year from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term.
ii Income and expenses for each income statement presented are translated at the rates of exchange at the time of each transaction during the period.
Accounts receivable Accounts receivable are initially recognised at fair value.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity, being taken through other comprehensive income via the evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Accounts receivable are first assessed individually for impairment.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter When a foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recognised through other comprehensive income are bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments more than 90 days overdue are considered indicators that the recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
trade receivable may be impaired.
Where there is no objective evidence of impairment for an individual receivable, it is included in a group of Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and receivables with similar credit risk characteristics and these are collectively assessed for impairment.
translated at the closing rates of exchange.
In the case of impairment, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is Derivative financial instruments recognised in the income statement within general and administrative expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against The Group utilises currency exchange contracts to manage the exchange risk on actual transactions related to accounts receivable, denominated the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against general and in a currency other than the functional currency of the business.
The Groups currency exchange contracts do not subject the Group to risk from administrative expenses in the income statement.
exchange rate movements because the gains and losses on such contracts offset losses and gains, respectively, on the transactions being hedged.
Property, plant and equipment The currency exchange contracts are recorded at fair value and the related foreign currency accounts receivable are revalued to spot rates at each Property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
The cost of property, period end.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
The fair plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its value of foreign currency options is based upon valuations performed by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments.
External costs and internal costs are capitalised to the extent they enhance the future economic benefit of the asset.
All recognised gains and losses resulting from the settlement of the contracts are recorded within general and administrative expenses in the income statement.
The Group does not enter into currency exchange contracts for the purpose of hedging anticipated transactions.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Embedded derivatives In accordance with IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, the Group has reviewed all its contracts for embedded derivatives that are required to be separately accounted for if they do not meet certain requirements set out in the standard.
From time to time, the Group may enter into contracts denominated in a currency typically US dollars that is neither the functional currency of the Group entity nor the functional currency of the customer or the collaborative partner.
Where there are uninvoiced amounts on such contracts, the Group carries such derivatives at fair value.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses.
indd 74 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued Retirement benefit costs Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges The Group contributes to defined contribution plans substantially covering all employees in Europe and the US and to government pension Investment income, and interest payable and similar charges relate to interest income and expense, which is accrued on a time basis, by reference schemes for employees in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, PR China, Israel and India.
indd 75 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1c Financial risk management Property, plant and equipment continued The Group operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry, which has been characterised by price erosion, rapid technological Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted, change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and heightened foreign and domestic competition.
Significant technological changes if appropriate, at each balance sheet date, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal in the industry could affect operating results.
economic lives used for this purpose are: The Groups operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include currency risk, interest rate risk, securities price risk, credit risk and Freehold buildings 25 years liquidity risk.
Leasehold improvements Five to ten years or term of lease, whichever is shorter Given the size of the Group, the directors have not delegated the responsibility for monitoring financial risk management to a sub-committee of the Board.
The policies set by the directors are implemented by the Groups finance and treasury departments.
The Group has a treasury policy Computer equipment Three to five years that sets out specific guidelines to manage currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and also sets out circumstances where it Fixtures and fittings, and motor vehicles Three to five years would be appropriate to use financial instruments to manage these.
Provision is made against the carrying value of property, plant and equipment where an impairment in value is deemed to have occurred.
Asset Currency risk lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis.
The Groups earnings and liquidity are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, principally in respect of the US dollar, reflecting the fact that most of its revenues and cash receipts are denominated in US dollars, while a significant proportion of its costs are settled in sterling.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within general and The Group seeks to use currency exchange contracts and currency options to manage the US dollar sterling risk as appropriate, by monitoring administrative expenses in the income statement.
the timing and value of anticipated US dollar receipts which tend to arise from low-volume, high-value licence deals and royalty receipts Financial assets in comparison with its requirement to settle certain expenses in US dollars.
The Group reviews the resulting exposure on a regular basis and The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, and availablehedges this exposure using currency exchange contracts and currency options for the sale of US dollars as appropriate.
Such contracts are entered for-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of into with the objective of matching their maturity with projected US dollar cash receipts.
financial assets at initial recognition.
The Group is also exposed to currency risk in respect of the foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities of its overseas subsidiaries.
At a Financial assets at fair value through the income statement Financial assets at fair value through the income statement are financial assets present, the Group does not consider this to be a significant risk since the Group does not intend to move assets between group companies.
held for trading that is, assets that have been acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Assets in this category are classified The Group has elected not to apply hedge accounting, and all movements in the fair value of derivative foreign exchange instruments are recorded as current assets.
They are initially recognised at fair value with transaction costs being expensed in the income statement.
Specifically, the Groups in the income statement, offsetting the foreign exchange movements on the accounts receivable, and cash and cash equivalents balances being currency exchange contracts and embedded derivatives fall within this category.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial hedged.
assets at fair value through the income statement are presented in the income statement within general and administrative expenses in the period in which they arise.
In addition, certain customers remit royalties and licence fees in other currencies, primarily the Euro and Japanese yen.
The Group is also required to settle certain expenses in these currencies, primarily in its French, German and Japanese subsidiaries, and as the net amounts involved are not b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted considered significant, the Group does not take out forward-settling currency exchange contracts in these currencies.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Accounts receivable, cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits are classified as Loans Interest rate risk and receivables see note 17.
Floating rate cash earns interest based on relevant national LIBID or base rate equivalents and is therefore exposed to cash flow interest rate risk.
The proportion of funds held in fixed rather than floating rate deposits is determined in accordance with the policy outlined under Liquidity risk Loans and receivables are measured initially at fair value and then subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Other financial assets, such as AFS financial assets, are not directly exposed to interest rate risk.
c Available-for-sale financial assets AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of The Group had no derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate fluctuations in place at the year end since the level of financing was not the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the balance considered significant, and as such no hedge accounting is applied.
The Groups cash flow is carefully monitored on a daily basis.
considering expected future cash flows, is placed on either shortor long-term deposits to maximise the interest income thereon.
Daily surpluses Equity investments that are not publicly traded are also classified as AFS and are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs.
Given that the are swept into higher-interest earning accounts overnight.
markets for these assets are not active, the Group establishes fair value by using valuation techniques.
The estimated fair value of these investments Securities price risk approximated to cost less any permanent diminution in value based on estimates determined by management, except where independent The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk on AFS financial assets.
As there can be no guarantee that there will be a future market for valuation information is obtained.
Unrealised holding gains or losses on such securities are recognised, net of related taxes, through other these securities which are generally unlisted at the time of investment or that the value of such investments will rise, the directors evaluate comprehensive income via a revaluation reserve, except where there is evidence of permanent impairment in which case the loss is recognised each investment opportunity on its merits before committing the Groups funds.
The directors review holdings in such companies on a regular through the income statement within general and administrative expenses or exceptional items where appropriate.
basis to determine whether continued investment is in the best interests of the Group.
Funds for such ventures are limited in order that the Current investments have been valued based on the amount that is recoverable.
financial effect of any potential decline of the value of investments will not be substantial in the context of the Groups financial results.
Accounts payable Credit risk Accounts payable are recognised at face value as they are settled within 12 months.
Credit risk is managed on a Group basis.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions.
Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the Group had no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty is subject to a limit, which is reassessed periodically by the directors.
indd 76 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 1b Summary of significant accounting policies continued 1c Financial risk management Property, plant and equipment continued The Group operates in the intensely competitive semiconductor industry, which has been characterised by price erosion, rapid technological Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of property, plant and equipment, less their estimated residual values, which are adjusted, change, short product life cycles, cyclical market patterns, and heightened foreign and domestic competition.
indd 77 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued 2 Segmental reporting Credit risk continued At 31 December 2013 the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three main business segments: The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
The Group generally Processor Division PD, encompassing those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including specific functions such as does not require collateral on accounts receivable, as many of its customers are large, well-established companies.
The Group has not graphics IP, system IP, embedded software and configurable digital signal processing DSP IP.
experienced any significant losses related to individual customers or groups of customers in any particular industry or geographic area.
Physical IP Division PIPD, concerned with the building blocks necessary for translation of a circuit design into actual silicon.
The Group markets and sells to a relatively small number of customers with individually large value transactions.
The Group performs credit System Design Division SDD, focused on the tools and models used to create and debug software and system-on-chip SoC designs.
checks on all customers other than those paying in advance in order to assess their creditworthiness and ability to pay its invoices as they become due.
As such, the balance of accounts receivable not owed by large companies is still deemed by the directors to be of low risk of default This is based upon the Groups internal organisation and management structure and is the primary way in which the CODM is provided with due to the nature of the checks performed on them, and accordingly a relatively small allowance against these receivables is in place to cover this financial information.
Whilst revenues are also reported into four main revenue streams namely licensing, royalties, software and tools, and low risk of default.
services, the costs, operating results and balance sheets are only analysed into these three divisions.
Further, the information provided to the CODM is based on normalised profit before tax, a non-GAAP measure, and therefore this information is provided as well as the equivalent profit No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and the directors do not expect any significant losses from non-performance by these stated under IFRS.
counterparties, other than those already provided for.
The reconciling items: intangible amortisation: acquisition-related charges: share-based payment costs including payroll taxes: disposal impairment Liquidity risk of investments: exceptional items: share of results in joint venture: and Linaro-related charges are analysed below.
Also analysed are revenues: The Groups policy is to maintain balances of cash and cash equivalents, and shortand long-term deposits, such that highly liquid resources operating costs: investment income, net of interest payable and similar charges: profit loss before tax: tax: profit loss after tax: depreciation: exceed the Groups projected cash outflows at all times.
Surplus funds are placed on fixedor floating-rate deposits depending on the prevailing total assets and liabilities: net assets: and goodwill for each segment and the Group in total.
economic climate at the time with reference to forward interest rates and also on the required maturity of the deposit as driven by the expected timing of the Groups cash receipts and payments over the shortto medium-term.
Business segment information Management monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups shortand medium-term expected cash flows.
This is carried out at both a local and a Processor Physical IP System Design Group level, with the local subsidiaries being funded by the Group as required.
Division Division Division Unallocated Group m m m m m For the year ended 31 December 2013 Capital risk management Segmental income statement The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for Revenues 596.2 82.0 36.4 714.6 shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an appropriate capital structure.
The capital structure of the Group consists of Operating costs 426.6 90.7 42.6 1.2 561.1 cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits and capital and reserves attributable to owners of the Company, as disclosed on the Investment income, net of interest payable and similar charges 13.1 13.1 consolidated balance sheet.
Share of results in joint venture 4.0 4.0 In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to Profit loss before tax 169.6 8.7 6.2 7.9 162.6 shareholders, issue new shares, sell assets to raise cash or take on debt.
Tax 57.8 57.8 The Groups strategy is to have a capital structure that takes into account opportunities to invest in long-term profitable growth, prevailing trading Profit loss for the year 169.6 8.7 6.2 49.9 104.8 conditions and the desire to improve balance sheet efficiency over time.
The Group introduced a dividend in 2004 which has grown each year Reconciliation to normalised profit before tax: since.
Between 2005 and 2008, an ongoing share buyback programme was in place whereby 16% of the issued share capital was bought back at Amortisation on acquired intangibles and other acquisition-related charges 9.6 2.0 11.6 an average price of 1.22.
In 2013, the interim dividend was increased by 26% and the directors are proposing a 27% increase in the final dividend, Share-based payment costs including payroll taxes 54.5 12.1 7.4 74.0 reflecting the Boards long-term confidence in the business.
As well as continuing to grow the dividend, the Board intends to undertake a limited Impairment of investments, net of profit on disposal 3.5 3.5 share buyback programme to maintain a flat share-count over time.
No share buybacks were made in the current year.
The capital structure is Exceptional items 101.3 101.3 continually monitored by the Group.
Share of results in joint venture and Linaro-related charges 7.0 4.0 11.0 Valuation hierarchy Normalised profit before tax 345.5 5.4 1.2 11.9 364.0 The Group classifies its financial instruments as follows: level 1 instruments are those valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for Segmental balance sheet identical instruments: level 2 instruments are those valued using techniques based significantly on observable market data: and level 3 instruments Total assets 389.4 400.1 31.6 817.3 1,638.4 are those valued using information other than observable market data.
Total liabilities 243.2 46.0 12.0 25.8 327.0 The Group has a team that performs the valuations of financial assets required for financial reporting purposes, including level 3 fair values.
This Net assets 146.2 354.1 19.6 791.5 1,311.4 team reports to the Chief Financial Officer and to the Audit Committee.
Other segmental items Depreciation 9.6 2.8 2.0 14.4 The fair value of accounts and other receivables, other current financial assets, cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits, and Goodwill 151.5 360.2 14.2 525.9 accounts and other payables approximate to their carrying amount.
indd 78 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 1c Financial risk management continued 2 Segmental reporting Credit risk continued At 31 December 2013 the Group was organised on a world-wide basis into three main business segments: The Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
indd 79 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Geographical information Processor Physical IP System Design The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
The operations are based in three main geographical areas.
The UK is the home Division Division Division Unallocated Group m m m m m For the year ended 31 December 2012 country of the parent company.
The main operations are in the following principal territories: Segmental income statement Europe Revenues 473.9 68.3 34.7 576.9 United States Operating costs 243.3 82.8 40.1 2.6 368.8 Investment income, net of interest payable and similar charges 13.6 13.6 Asia Pacific Share of results in joint venture 0.7 0.7 Analysis of revenue by destination : Profit loss before tax 230.6 14.5 5.4 10.3 221.0 2013 2012 Tax 60.3 60.3 m m Profit loss for the year 230.6 14.5 5.4 50.0 160.7 United States 280.3 215.9 Reconciliation to normalised profit loss before tax: South Korea 101.7 95.0 Amortisation on acquired intangibles and other acquisition-related charges 5.5 2.5 0.8 8.8 Taiwan 99.4 69.2 Share-based payment costs including payroll taxes 30.0 8.6 6.8 45.4 China 90.0 71.2 Profit on sale of investments, net of impairment 0.6 0.6 Japan 47.6 46.6 Share of results in joint venture 0.7 0.7 Switzerland 24.8 14.0 Normalised profit loss before tax 266.7 3.4 1.4 11.8 276.5 Singapore 24.6 9.2 Segmental balance sheet Germany 13.4 15.4 Total assets 284.6 409.2 32.5 740.5 1,466.8 Netherlands 8.5 15.8 Total liabilities 182.6 43.9 15.1 19.1 260.7 Rest of Europe 19.7 19.0 Net assets 102.0 365.3 17.4 721.4 1,206.1 Rest of Asia Pacific 3.6 4.4 Other segmental items Rest of North America 1.0 1.2 Depreciation 6.7 2.5 1.6 10.8 714.6 576.9 Goodwill 138.0 367.0 14.4 519.4 Destination is defined as the location of the Groups customers operations.
Revenues USD millions 749.8 108.4 54.9 913.1 The Groups revenue within the home country of the parent company amounted to 4.9 million and 5.5 million for the years ended There are no inter-segment revenues.
Unallocated operating costs consist of foreign exchange gains and losses.
Unallocated assets and liabilities 31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively.
The Groups exports from the UK were 699.2 million and 560.3 million for the years ended include: cash and cash equivalents: shortand long-term deposits: AFS financial assets: loans and receivables: embedded derivatives: fair value of 31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively.
currency exchange contracts: deferred tax balances: current tax: and VAT.
Analysis of revenue by origin: During the year ended 31 December 2013 one customer within all three business segments accounted for 12% of the Groups total revenues 2013 2012 amounting to 87.6 million 2012: one customer accounted for 15%.
m m The results of each segment have been prepared using accounting policies consistent with those of the Group as a whole.
Analysis of revenue by revenue stream: 2013 2012 m m Royalties 358.3 299.8 Licensing 285.6 214.0 Software and tools 36.4 34.7 Services 34.3 28.4 714.6 576.9 80 017043 ARM GovernanceFinancials 2013 WORD.
indd 80 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued 2 Segmental reporting continued Geographical information Processor Physical IP System Design The Group manages its business segments on a global basis.
Analysis of revenue by revenue stream: 2013 2012 m m Royalties 358.3 299.8 Licensing 285.6 214.0 Software and tools 36.4 34.7 Services 34.3 28.4 714.6 576.9 81 017043 ARM GovernanceFinancials 2013 WORD.
indd 81 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued 4 Employee information Geographical information continued The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year was: Analysis of non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets : 2013 2012 Number Number 2013 2012 m m By segment Europe 172.0 193.8 Processor Division 1,667 1,398 United States 7.2 5.2 Physical IP Division 615 557 Asia Pacific 5.0 3.1 System Design Division 316 306 184.2 202.1 2,598 2,261 Includes the UK, which had non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets of 171.0 million in 2013 2012: 192.8 million, of which long-term deposits accounted for 125.6 million 2012: 141.3 million.
2013 2012 Number Number 3 Key management compensation and directors emoluments Key management compensation By activity The directors are of the opinion that the key management of the Group comprises the executive and non-executive directors of ARM Holdings Research and development 1,803 1,581 plc together with the Executive Committee comprising all directors of ARM Limited and certain senior management.
These persons have Sales and marketing 425 367 authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly.
At 31 December 2013, key General and administrative 370 313 management comprised 21 people 2012: 19.
2,598 2,261 The aggregate amounts of key management compensation are set out below: 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 9.5 8.9 Staff costs for the above persons Share-based payments 6.1 3.4 Wages and salaries 185.4 161.5 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.2 Medical care costs 5.5 5.0 15.8 12.5 Share-based payments note 20 59.2 37.1 Social security costs 35.1 30.2 Directors emoluments Movement on provision for social security costs on share awards 1.4 6.1 The aggregate emoluments of the directors of the Company are set out below: Other pension costs 8.7 8.0 2013 2012 292.5 235.7 m m Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 3.8 4.9 Aggregate payments for pension-related benefits 0.2 0.2 Aggregate gains on exercise of share options 3.9 1.8 Aggregate amounts receivable in shares under the DAB Plan 12.9 11.5 Aggregate amounts receivable under the LTIP 17.2 21.2 38.0 39.6 Detailed disclosures of directors emoluments are shown on page 46 and 47.
Details of directors interests in share options and awards are shown on pages 48 to 53, which form part of the financial statements.
indd 82 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Segmental reporting continued 4 Employee information Geographical information continued The average monthly number of persons, including executive directors, employed by the Group during the year was: Analysis of non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets : 2013 2012 Number Number 2013 2012 m m By segment Europe 172.0 193.8 Processor Division 1,667 1,398 United States 7.2 5.2 Physical IP Division 615 557 Asia Pacific 5.0 3.1 System Design Division 316 306 184.2 202.1 2,598 2,261 Includes the UK, which had non-current assets excluding deferred tax assets, goodwill and other intangible assets of 171.0 million in 2013 2012: 192.8 million, of which long-term deposits accounted for 125.6 million 2012: 141.3 million.
indd 83 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Profit before tax: analysis of expenses by nature 6 Exceptional items The following items have been charged credited to the income statement in arriving at profit before tax: IP indemnity and similar charges As noted in prior financial statements, the Group had been in discussions with a licensee to re-negotiate the terms upon which the Group would 2013 2012 indemnify that licensee.
During 2013, terms were executed and the Group incurred indemnification costs amounting to $18.0 million.
Further in m m relation to legal proceedings regarding the same patent portfolio, for a consideration of $45.4 million, ARM entered into a licence agreement with Staff costs, including share-based payments note 4 292.5 235.7 a third party covering patents being asserted against ARM technology in litigation between the patentee and a number of licensees of ARM Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 2.8 3.2 technology.
The licence was entered into in full and final settlement of any indemnity claims with respect to the asserted patents and will prevent Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets note 12 11.6 9.5 any future assertion of the patents against ARM technology.
Total indemnification, settlement and licence costs of $63.4 million 41.8 million Depreciation of property, plant and equipment under finance leases note 12 2.8 1.3 were expensed as an exceptional item in 2013, resulting in a tax deduction in current tax of 9.7 million.
Amortisation of other intangible assets note 14 Impairment of available-for-sale financial assets current Cost of revenues 0.3 0.3 During the year, the Group participated in a consortium, via a trust, to acquire certain patent rights.
These rights were not subject to actual or Research and development expenses 6.9 2.3 threatened legal proceedings.
Of the Groups total contribution to the consortium, $100.5 million was classified within current AFS financial assets Sales and marketing expenses 0.6 0.9 60.7 million after translation at 31 December 2013 exchange rates and $67 million, the residual, was classified within other intangible assets General and administrative expenses 5.8 3.1 37.4 million after amortisation to 31 December 2013.
The available-for-sale financial asset represented ARMs right to receive cash from the Government grants research and development expenditure credit 5.8 Group's financial interest in the consortium, as it was anticipated that a programme of licensing the patents to third parties would be undertaken Exceptional items note 6 by the trust.
The other intangible asset consists of IP rights that are being amortised over a period of eight and a half years, being the average Impairment of current AFS financial asset 59.5 remaining life of the underlying patent portfolio.
IP indemnity and similar charges 41.8 In Q4 2013, the trust made a strategic decision not to pursue a licensing programme and the portfolio was put up for sale by auction.
The Group Impairment of non-current AFS financial assets note 11 6.8 1.4 acquired the patents in January 2014 for $4.0 million 2.4 million which will be accounted for as an additional intangible asset.
As there is no Profit on disposal of AFS financial assets 3.3 0.8 longer an expectation of any future cash flows with respect to licensing of the patents by the trust, the AFS financial asset has been impaired down Other operating lease rentals payable to the value of the Groups share of the auction proceeds, giving rise to a non-cash exceptional charge of $98.5 million 59.5 million.
As Plant and machinery 26.2 24.0 disclosed in note 7, a deferred tax asset has not been recognised in relation to this exceptional item, increasing the current tax charge by 18.3 Property 8.7 7.6 million.
Accounts receivables impairment including movement in provision 4.0 0.4 7 Tax Fair value movement on embedded derivatives 4.5 3.7 Analysis of charge in the year: Other foreign exchange gains 3.3 1.9 2013 2012 Services provided by the Groups auditor and its associates m m During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor and its associates: Current tax: 2013 2012 Current tax on profits for the year 56.5 47.5 m m Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 0.5 Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company Total current tax 56.3 47.0 and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.3 Deferred tax: Fees payable to the Groups auditor and its associates for other services: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 4.1 11.8 The audit of the Groups subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Impact of change in the UK statutory tax rate 0.1 1.5 Audit-related assurance services services pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 0.3 0.3 Impact of change due to the UK patent box regime 5.5 Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 Total deferred tax 1.5 13.3 Statutory audit, financial reporting and other related services 0.9 0.9 Income tax expense 57.8 60.3 Tax advisory services 0.1 0.2 Analysis of tax on items charged to equity: Tax compliance services 0.1 All other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 2013 2012 m m 1.1 1.3 Deferred tax charge on outstanding share options and awards 4.8 9.7 All other non-audit services consist predominantly of fees for the performance of royalty audits.
Current tax benefit on share options and awards 27.0 27.4 Deferred tax credit on AFS financial assets 0.1 84 017043 ARM GovernanceFinancials 2013 WORD.
indd 84 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Profit before tax: analysis of expenses by nature 6 Exceptional items The following items have been charged credited to the income statement in arriving at profit before tax: IP indemnity and similar charges As noted in prior financial statements, the Group had been in discussions with a licensee to re-negotiate the terms upon which the Group would 2013 2012 indemnify that licensee.
Current tax benefit on share options and awards 27.0 27.4 Deferred tax credit on AFS financial assets 0.1 85 017043 ARM GovernanceFinancials 2013 WORD.
indd 85 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Tax continued 7 Tax continued At the balance sheet date the UK Government had enacted a 2% reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax from 23% to 21% from The tax charge for the year was different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, as explained below: 1 April 2014 and a further 1% reduction to 20% from 1 April 2015.
The UK Government has also introduced the new patent box regime, which 2013 2012 seeks to tax all profits attributable to patented technology at a reduced rate of 10%.
The rules are to be phased in over five years from m m 1 April 2013 a company will be entitled to only 60% of the deduction in financial year 2013 14, rising to 100% by 2017 18.
The impact of these Profit before tax 162.6 221.0 changes on the deferred tax balances of the Group is included in the tax charge.
Profit before tax at the corporation tax rate of 23.25% 2012: 24.5% 37.8 54.2 The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during Effects of: the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.2 0.5 intention to settle the balances net.
Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 4.1 5.0 Deferred tax assets Research and development tax credits 6.6 5.5 Current impact of the UK patent box regime 4.8 Amounts Temporary Tax losses Temporary relating to differences and R&D tax differences Remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to reduction in UK statutory tax rate 0.1 1.5 share-based relating to credits carried relating to Remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to the UK patent box regime 5.5 payments fixed assets forward reserves Other Total US deferred tax assets not recognised 17.5 3.4 m m m m m m Foreign withholding tax 3.0 1.0 At 1 January 2013 43.5 2.6 15.1 9.5 0.6 71.3 Impact of share-based payments 1.5 0.3 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 0.5 0.5 Prior year movement from current tax assets 3.0 3.0 Other 2.9 0.9 Income statement credit charge 0.8 1.3 2.8 1.5 0.3 1.9 Total taxation 57.8 60.3 Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options and The provisions extending the US federal R&D tax credits into 2012 were signed on 2 January 2013.
As a result of the provisions being enacted in 2013, 2012 R&D tax credits of 2.1 million have been 4.8 4.8 awards accounted for in 2013.
Unutilised current year share option deductions 6.7 6.7 Includes the tax impact of the exceptional charge of 59.5 million for the impairment of an AFS financial asset which gave rise to a tax loss that has not been recognised because it is not probable that the loss will be utilised.
Exchange differences 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2013 prior to offsetting 32.8 3.9 22.1 8.0 0.9 67.7 Includes expenditure disallowable for tax purposes.
Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 2.4 Deferred tax At 31 December 2013 after offsetting 65.3 Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using the tax rate relevant to each tax jurisdiction.
At 1 January 2012 59.5 4.6 30.9 12.7 107.7 The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: Prior year movement to current tax assets 11.6 11.6 Income statement charge credit 0.1 2.0 9.1 3.2 0.6 13.8 2013 2012 m m Movement on deferred tax arising on outstanding share options and 9.7 9.7 awards At 1 January 70.1 105.9 Unutilised current year share option deductions 6.2 6.2 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 1.2 Exchange differences 1.3 1.3 Income statement charge 1.5 13.3 At 31 December 2012 prior to offsetting 43.5 2.6 15.1 9.5 0.6 71.3 Adjustment in respect of share-based payments 4.8 9.7 Offsetting of deferred tax liabilities 1.2 Prior year movement from to current tax assets 3.0 11.6 At 31 December 2012 after offsetting 70.1 Exchange differences 0.4 1.3 Revaluation of AFS financial asset 0.1 The deferred tax asset to be recovered after more than one year is 35.2 million 2012: 29.6 million.
At 31 December 65.2 70.1 Deferred tax assets have been partially recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets because it is not probable that the unrecognised portion of these assets will be recovered.
The amount of deferred tax assets unrecognised at 31 December 2013 was 23.2 million 2012: 4.4 million.
The unrecognised deferred tax assets relate to historic losses of acquired subsidiaries and the loss arising on the impairment of an AFS financial asset.
The losses may remain unutilised due to restrictions imposed by local tax legislation and availability of relevant future profits.
No deferred tax has been recognised in respect of a further 33.2 million 2012: 35.0 million of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of these differences and either it is possible that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future or no tax is payable on the reversal.
indd 86 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Tax continued 7 Tax continued At the balance sheet date the UK Government had enacted a 2% reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax from 23% to 21% from The tax charge for the year was different from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK, as explained below: 1 April 2014 and a further 1% reduction to 20% from 1 April 2015.
indd 87 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Tax continued 9 Accounts receivable Deferred tax liabilities 2013 2012 m m Amounts relating to Temporary difference intangible assets Trade debtors including receivables from related parties see note 24 140.3 119.1 on AFS financial assets arising on acquisition Other Total Less: Provision for impairment of trade debtors 9.7 2.4 m m m m Trade debtors, net 130.6 116.7 At 1 January 2013 1.1 0.1 1.2 Amounts recoverable on contracts 5.6 7.8 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 1.7 1.7 Current accounts receivable 136.2 124.5 Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Other short-term differences 0.1 0.1 0.2 Movements in the Groups provision for impairment of trade debtors are as follows: At 31 December 2013 prior to offsetting 2.5 2.5 2013 2012 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 2.4 m m At 31 December 2013 after offsetting 0.1 At 1 January 2.4 1.7 At 1 January 2012 1.3 0.1 0.4 1.8 Charge to income statement 4.0 0.4 Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Reclassification from deferred income 3.5 0.4 Movement through reserves 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.1 Other short-term differences 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 9.7 2.4 At 31 December 2012 prior to offsetting 1.1 0.1 1.2 See also note 17 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Groups gross trade debtors.
Offsetting of deferred tax assets 1.2 At 31 December 2012 after offsetting 10 Prepaid expenses and other assets The deferred tax liability due after more than one year prior to offsetting is 1.2 million 2012: 0.8 million.
2013 2012 m m 8 Dividends Other receivables 18.1 10.4 2013 2012 Prepayments and accrued income 21.7 125.2 m m Current prepaid expenses and other assets 39.8 135.6 Final 2011 paid at 2.09 pence per share 28.8 Plus: non-current prepayments and accrued income 1.6 2.0 Interim 2012 paid at 1.67 pence per share 23.0 Total prepaid expenses and other assets 41.4 137.6 Final 2012 paid at 2.83 pence per share 39.5 Included within prepayments and accrued income at 31 December 2012 was a prepayment amounting to 103.7 million, being the Groups Interim 2013 paid at 2.10 pence per share 29.4 advance contribution to acquire rights to MIPS Technologies, Inc. s portfolio of patents.
The Group has determined that the participation in the 68.9 51.8 consortium conferred on the Group two separate rights: an intangible asset, conferring the right to use the assets in the Groups own business of In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 3.6 pence per share, which will 41.9 million see note 14, and an AFS financial asset of 63.4 million see note 11, conferring the right to certain potential future revenue absorb an estimated 51 million of shareholders funds.
Subject to approval at the 2014 AGM, it will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders who streams arising from the licensing activities of the trust.
are on the register of members on 22 April 2014.
indd 88 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 7 Tax continued 9 Accounts receivable Deferred tax liabilities 2013 2012 m m Amounts relating to Temporary difference intangible assets Trade debtors including receivables from related parties see note 24 140.3 119.1 on AFS financial assets arising on acquisition Other Total Less: Provision for impairment of trade debtors 9.7 2.4 m m m m Trade debtors, net 130.6 116.7 At 1 January 2013 1.1 0.1 1.2 Amounts recoverable on contracts 5.6 7.8 Amount acquired with subsidiary undertaking 1.7 1.7 Current accounts receivable 136.2 124.5 Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Other short-term differences 0.1 0.1 0.2 Movements in the Groups provision for impairment of trade debtors are as follows: At 31 December 2013 prior to offsetting 2.5 2.5 2013 2012 Offsetting of deferred tax assets 2.4 m m At 31 December 2013 after offsetting 0.1 At 1 January 2.4 1.7 At 1 January 2012 1.3 0.1 0.4 1.8 Charge to income statement 4.0 0.4 Movement in respect of amortisation of intangible assets 0.2 0.2 Reclassification from deferred income 3.5 0.4 Movement through reserves 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange 0.2 0.1 Other short-term differences 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 9.7 2.4 At 31 December 2012 prior to offsetting 1.1 0.1 1.2 See also note 17 for further disclosure regarding the credit quality of the Groups gross trade debtors.
indd 89 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Available-for-sale financial assets 11 Available-for-sale financial assets continued Non-current investments 2013 2012 Those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested are generally early-stage development enterprises, which are generating value for m m Non-current investments shareholders through research and development activities, and most do not currently report profits.
The fair value of these investments is Net book value considered to approximate to cost or is determined using independent valuation information where available.
At 1 January 13.8 27.3 Additions including capitalised interest of 0.2 million in 2012 8.9 3.2 The Groups investments include the following companies: Revaluation recognised through other comprehensive income 0.4 Amantys Limited Disposals 1.7 14.9 Ambiq Micro Inc. Foreign exchange translation 0.3 Impairment recognised through income statement general and administrative expenses 6.8 1.4 Cambridge Innovation Capital plc At 31 December 13.9 13.8 Carbon Design Systems Inc. Cyclos Semiconductor Inc. 2013 2012 Marmalade Technologies Limited formerly Ideaworks 3D Limited Current investments m m Shanghai Walden Venture Capital Enterprise Net book value At 1 January Thunder Software Technology Co. Ltd Additions 63.4 Triad Semiconductor Inc. Foreign exchange translation 2.7 Impairment recognised through income statement as an exceptional item, see note 6 59.5 During the year the Group disposed of its investments in Arteris Holdings Inc and eSol Co. Ltd. At 31 December 1.2 At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the Group had no listed investments.
All investments noted above are considered to be Level 3 financial assets.
Available-for-sale financial assets include the following: 2013 2012 m m Unlisted equity securities UK 6.2 3.7 Unlisted equity securities China 1.9 2.0 Unlisted equity securities Japan 0.9 Unlisted equity securities US 1.4 5.9 Convertible loan notes UK 1.3 1.3 Convertible loan notes US 3.1 Total non-current financial assets 13.9 13.8 Available-for-sale financial assets are denominated in the following currencies: 2013 2012 m m Sterling 9.5 12.5 US dollars 4.4 1.3 Total financial assets 13.9 13.8 A permanent 10% fall in the underlying value of those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested as at 31 December 2013 would have reduced the Groups post-tax profit by 1.1 million 2012: 1.0 million and resulted in a nil 2012: nil reduction in other components of equity.
indd 90 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Available-for-sale financial assets 11 Available-for-sale financial assets continued Non-current investments 2013 2012 Those unlisted companies in which the Group has invested are generally early-stage development enterprises, which are generating value for m m Non-current investments shareholders through research and development activities, and most do not currently report profits.
indd 91 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Property, plant and equipment 13 Goodwill Fixtures, fittings Assets in the m Freehold Leasehold Computer and motor course of At 1 January 2012 542.5 buildings improvements equipment vehicles construction Total m m m m m m Exchange differences 23.1 At 31 December 2012 519.4 Cost At 1 January 2013 0.2 23.1 48.8 6.4 3.5 82.0 Exchange differences 9.9 Additions 2.5 8.1 1.8 2.6 15.0 Acquisition Sensinode note 19 6.4 Acquisition Geomerics note 19 10.0 Acquisitions 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2013 525.9 Transfers 0.9 2.3 3.2 Reclassification 3.2 1.7 4.9 During the fourth quarter of 2013, the directors tested the Groups balance of goodwill for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Disposals 1.7 5.7 1.0 0.4 8.8 assets.
No impairment charge was recorded as a result of this annual impairment test.
Exchange differences 0.6 1.0 0.3 0.1 2.0 Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGUs according to business segment.
The carrying amounts of goodwill by CGU at 31 December 2013 are At 31 December 2013 0.2 24.2 49.4 7.0 0.7 81.5 summarised below: Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2013 0.1 13.9 27.5 4.4 45.9 Processor Physical IP System Design Division Division Division Group Charge for the year 2.3 11.0 1.1 14.4 m m m m Acquisitions 0.1 0.1 Goodwill relating to Artisan 119.0 357.1 476.1 Reclassification 3.2 3.2 Goodwill relating to Geomerics 10.0 10.0 Disposals 1.5 5.7 1.0 8.2 Goodwill relating to Falanx 9.4 9.4 Exchange differences 0.2 0.8 0.1 1.1 Goodwill relating to Axys 7.3 7.3 At 31 December 2013 0.1 14.5 28.9 4.4 47.9 Goodwill relating to KEG and KSI 6.9 6.9 Net book value Goodwill relating to Sensinode 5.8 5.8 At 31 December 2013 0.1 9.7 20.5 2.6 0.7 33.6 Goodwill relating to Prolific 3.1 3.1 Goodwill relating to Obsidian 3.0 3.0 Fixtures, fittings Assets in the Goodwill relating to Logipard 2.2 2.2 Freehold Leasehold Computer and motor course of Goodwill relating to other acquisitions 2.1 2.1 buildings improvements equipment vehicles construction Total m m m m m m Goodwill at 31 December 2013 151.5 360.2 14.2 525.9 Cost Goodwill at 31 December 2012 138.0 367.0 14.4 519.4 At 1 January 2012 0.2 18.0 32.5 5.7 0.9 57.3 The recoverable amount for each CGU has been measured based on a value-in-use calculation.
Additions 1.7 14.0 1.1 12.4 29.2 Transfers 4.9 4.9 9.8 Allocation of goodwill relating to Artisan The directors believed that, in addition to forming the basis of the Physical IP Division PIPD, the Groups acquisition of Artisan in 2004 would Disposals 1.1 1.8 0.2 3.1 provide a benefit to the Processor Division PD for the following reasons: Exchange differences 0.4 0.8 0.2 1.4 At 31 December 2012 0.2 23.1 48.8 6.4 3.5 82.0 The development of faster and more power-efficient microprocessors as a result of collaboration between PD and PIPD engineering teams.
Accumulated depreciation This is expected to generate more PD licensing deals at higher values.
At 1 January 2012 0.1 13.5 21.8 3.8 39.2 The potential for PD to win more microprocessor licensing business as a result of ARM being able to offer both processor and physical IP inCharge for the year 1.8 8.1 0.9 10.8 house.
Disposals 1.1 1.8 0.2 3.1 The goodwill relating to Artisan was allocated between the two divisions accordingly.
Exchange differences 0.3 0.6 0.1 1.0 At 31 December 2012 0.1 13.9 27.5 4.4 45.9 Processor Division Net book value PD encompasses those resources that are centred around microprocessor cores, including specific functions such as graphics IP, system IP, At 31 December 2012 0.1 9.2 21.3 2.0 3.5 36.1 embedded software IP and configurable DSP IP.
Net book value at 1 January 2012 0.1 4.5 10.7 1.9 0.9 18.1 The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: Included within computer equipment are assets with net book value of 6.6 million 2012: 7.7 million held under finance leases.
Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2023 of 3% per Reclassification from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets software.
Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period to assess the expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review.
Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management, taking into account typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARMs historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
indd 92 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Property, plant and equipment 13 Goodwill Fixtures, fittings Assets in the m Freehold Leasehold Computer and motor course of At 1 January 2012 542.5 buildings improvements equipment vehicles construction Total m m m m m m Exchange differences 23.1 At 31 December 2012 519.4 Cost At 1 January 2013 0.2 23.1 48.8 6.4 3.5 82.0 Exchange differences 9.9 Additions 2.5 8.1 1.8 2.6 15.0 Acquisition Sensinode note 19 6.4 Acquisition Geomerics note 19 10.0 Acquisitions 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2013 525.9 Transfers 0.9 2.3 3.2 Reclassification 3.2 1.7 4.9 During the fourth quarter of 2013, the directors tested the Groups balance of goodwill for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Disposals 1.7 5.7 1.0 0.4 8.8 assets.
indd 93 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Goodwill continued 13 Goodwill continued Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to remain constant over the period of the calculation.
System Design Division SDD develops and sells the tools and models used to create and debug software and SoC designs.
Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to PD is appropriate and that the assumptions used in estimating its fair value are appropriate.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a five-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2018 of 3% per foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value exceeds annum.
It is considered appropriate to use a five-year forecast period to properly reflect the weighted average period over which the benefits of the carrying value.
the acquisitions of Axys, KEG and KSI are expected to accrue.
Physical IP Division Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management, taking into account PIPD is concerned with the building blocks necessary for translation of a circuit design into actual silicon.
typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARMs historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations were: Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to grow gradually during the period.
Period of projected cash flows The directors have used a ten-year forecast period with an assumed terminal growth rate after 2023 of 3% per Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
Given the long-term nature of the ARM licensing and royalty business model, it is considered appropriate to use a ten-year forecast period Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to SDD and the assumptions used in estimating its fair value to assess the expected future cash flows to be generated from the assets under review.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably This timescale is consistent with ARMs experience in developing the processor licensing and royalty model.
ARM has signed more than 1,000 foreseeable changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value processor licences with around 350 customers since the formation of the Group with less than half of these paying royalties thus far.
As royalty exceeds the carrying value.
revenues are a function of cumulative licensing, royalty growth gathers momentum as the licensing base grows ARM processor royalties have 14 Other intangible assets increased from $72 million in 2003 to $495 million in 2013.
Existing Revenue growth Revenue growth assumptions are based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management, taking into account In-process agreements Trademarks Computer Patents and research and Developed and customer Core and Order typical semiconductor industry growth rates and ARMs historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
Since the software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames backlog Total acquisition of Artisan at the end of 2004, PIPD has accelerated the development of leading-edge physical IP technology.
As semiconductor process m m m m m m m m m geometries shrink, PIPD is expected to have more licensing opportunities across a broader range of foundries and other semiconductor Cost companies.
At 1 January 2013 14.1 26.8 5.9 39.6 53.3 16.8 4.5 2.0 163.0 US dollar licence revenues increased by 25% year-on-year in 2013 and royalty revenues increased by 13%.
The increase in revenues was due Additions 2.0 74.1 7.5 0.3 83.9 mainly to the successful delivery of new products licensed in the previous year.
Further licensing of new technology was achieved in the year and as Reclassification 4.9 4.9 a result, backlog at the end of 2013 was at a similar level to the beginning of the year.
This continuing licensing activity is expected to translate into Disposals and derecognitions 1.5 2.0 3.5 growth in royalty revenues in future years.
The directors believe that the investment in the physical IP technology portfolio in recent years will not Exchange differences 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.8 0.3 0.1 1.8 only generate growth in physical IP revenue in future years, but also contribute significantly to the success of PD due to the synergistic benefits of At 31 December 2013 19.4 100.9 5.8 46.7 52.8 16.5 4.4 246.5 the combined technologies.
An estimate of the increased benefits to PD arising as a result of the combination with physical IP products is taken in Accumulated amortisation to account in calculating the value-in-use for PIPD.
Over the ten-year period of the forecast it is estimated that on average 8% of PD revenues At 1 January 2013 10.3 23.1 5.9 37.7 52.8 15.5 4.5 2.0 151.8 would be allocated to PIPD.
Demand for Processor Optimisation Packs POPs continued to be strong in 2013, with a number of Partners taking Charge for the year 2.3 8.3 1.5 0.6 0.9 13.6 licences alongside PD processors.
POPs enable an enhanced and deterministic outcome for licensees when implementing ARM processors.
Reclassification 3.2 3.2 Operating margins Operating margins are assumed to increase gradually over time to approximately 15% by the end of the forecast period.
Disposals and derecognitions 1.5 2.0 3.5 In 2013, PIPD continued to make progress and recorded a profit on a normalised basis for the first time.
This was mostly as a result of increased Exchange differences 0.1 0.2 0.8 0.3 0.1 1.5 revenues offset by continued investment in the development of leading-edge technology.
Margins are expected to improve significantly in future At 31 December 2013 14.3 31.4 5.8 39.0 52.6 16.1 4.4 163.6 years as licence revenues from leading-edge products gather pace.
Growth in high-margin royalty revenues will further improve profitability.
Net book value Costs are expected to grow relatively slowly in real terms.
At 31 December 2013 5.1 69.5 7.7 0.2 0.4 82.9 Discount rate Future cash flows are discounted at a rate of 10% per annum post tax.
Reclassification from property, plant and equipment to intangible assets software.
Conclusion The directors are confident that the amount of goodwill allocated to PIPD and the assumptions used in estimating its fair value are The net book value of patents and licences includes a patent licence agreement for interconnect technology used in SoCs, with a carrying value of appropriate.
Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable 16.0 million at 31 December 2013 2012: nil and a remaining useful life of 9 years, and IP rights acquired from Bridge Crossing LLC see note 6 changes to key assumptions would result in an impairment of goodwill, such is the margin by which the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying with a carrying value of 37.4 million at 31 December 2013 2012: nil and a remaining useful life of 8 years.
The overall assessment is most sensitive to changes in the assumed revenues and benefits provided to the Processor Division see Note 1, Critical Estimates and Judgements.
The directors have considered the impact of a number of scenarios on the overall valuation of the PIPD business, including a considerable reduction in the benefits assumed to be provided to the Processor Division.
The results of this sensitivity analysis showed that applying a range of reasonable variations to the key assumptions would not change the conclusion that no impairment in the carrying value of the goodwill is required at 31 December 2013.
indd 94 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 13 Goodwill continued 13 Goodwill continued Operating margins Operating margins have been assumed to remain constant over the period of the calculation.
indd 95 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 14 Other intangible assets continued 17 Financial instruments a Financial instruments by category Existing The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: In-process agreements Trademarks Computer Patents and research and Developed and customer Core and Order Financial assets software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames backlog Total m m m m m m m m m Assets at fair Cost value through Loans and the income AvailableAt 1 January 2012 10.4 25.4 6.2 41.0 55.5 17.6 4.7 2.1 162.9 receivables statement for-sale Total Additions 4.0 1.4 5.4 m m m m Disposals 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2013 Exchange differences 0.1 0.3 1.4 2.2 0.8 0.2 0.1 5.1 Cash and cash equivalents 43.8 43.8 At 31 December 2012 14.1 26.8 5.9 39.6 53.3 16.8 4.5 2.0 163.0 Short-term deposits 544.1 544.1 Accumulated amortisation Currency exchange contracts 5.1 5.1 At 1 January 2012 9.0 20.8 6.2 37.7 54.6 15.3 4.7 2.1 150.4 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 145.9 145.9 Charge for the year 1.6 2.3 1.4 0.4 0.9 6.6 Available-for-sale financial assets unlisted 1.2 1.2 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Total current financial assets 733.8 5.1 1.2 740.1 Exchange differences 0.1 0.3 1.4 2.2 0.7 0.2 0.1 5.0 Long-term deposits 125.6 125.6 At 31 December 2012 10.3 23.1 5.9 37.7 52.8 15.5 4.5 2.0 151.8 Loans and receivables 3.0 3.0 Net book value Available-for-sale financial assets - unlisted 13.9 13.9 At 31 December 2012 3.8 3.7 1.9 0.5 1.3 11.2 Total non-current financial assets 128.6 13.9 142.5 Total financial assets 862.4 5.1 15.1 882.6 15 Accrued and other liabilities At 31 December 2012 2013 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 46.3 46.3 m m Short-term deposits 340.0 340.0 Accruals: Currency exchange contracts 1.4 1.4 Provision for payroll taxes on share awards 15.1 16.5 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 126.9 126.9 Employee bonus and sales commissions 26.5 23.8 Total current financial assets 513.2 1.4 514.6 Other accruals including 2.6 million non-current 2012: nil 40.0 31.0 Long-term deposits 141.3 141.3 Total accruals 81.6 71.3 Loans and receivables 2.1 2.1 Available-for-sale financial assets - unlisted 13.8 13.8 Other taxation and social security 4.4 3.4 Total non-current financial assets 143.4 13.8 157.2 Other payables 4.7 4.6 Total financial assets 656.6 1.4 13.8 671.8 Total accrued and other liabilities 90.7 79.3 Financial liabilities 16 Finance lease liabilities 2013 2012 m m 2013 2012 m m Liabilities at amortised cost at 31 December: Accounts payable 7.0 5.9 Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: Accrued and other liabilities 56.3 46.8 Within one year 2.9 3.1 In the second to fifth years inclusive 1.5 3.0 Finance lease liabilities 4.2 5.8 67.5 58.5 Less: future finance charges 0.2 0.3 Liabilities at fair value through the income statement at 31 December: Present value of lease obligations 4.2 5.8 Embedded derivatives 7.0 2.5 Total financial liabilities 74.5 61.0 Amounts due for settlement within 12 months 2.7 2.9 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 1.5 2.9 Non-financial liabilities are excluded from the accrued and other liabilities balance, as this analysis is required only for financial instruments.
Present value of lease obligations 4.2 5.8 The Group has entered into a threeand a four-year finance lease arrangement in respect of certain IT equipment.
indd 96 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 14 Other intangible assets continued 17 Financial instruments a Financial instruments by category Existing The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied to the line items below: In-process agreements Trademarks Computer Patents and research and Developed and customer Core and Order Financial assets software licences development technology relationships technology tradenames backlog Total m m m m m m m m m Assets at fair Cost value through Loans and the income AvailableAt 1 January 2012 10.4 25.4 6.2 41.0 55.5 17.6 4.7 2.1 162.9 receivables statement for-sale Total Additions 4.0 1.4 5.4 m m m m Disposals 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2013 Exchange differences 0.1 0.3 1.4 2.2 0.8 0.2 0.1 5.1 Cash and cash equivalents 43.8 43.8 At 31 December 2012 14.1 26.8 5.9 39.6 53.3 16.8 4.5 2.0 163.0 Short-term deposits 544.1 544.1 Accumulated amortisation Currency exchange contracts 5.1 5.1 At 1 January 2012 9.0 20.8 6.2 37.7 54.6 15.3 4.7 2.1 150.4 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 145.9 145.9 Charge for the year 1.6 2.3 1.4 0.4 0.9 6.6 Available-for-sale financial assets unlisted 1.2 1.2 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Total current financial assets 733.8 5.1 1.2 740.1 Exchange differences 0.1 0.3 1.4 2.2 0.7 0.2 0.1 5.0 Long-term deposits 125.6 125.6 At 31 December 2012 10.3 23.1 5.9 37.7 52.8 15.5 4.5 2.0 151.8 Loans and receivables 3.0 3.0 Net book value Available-for-sale financial assets - unlisted 13.9 13.9 At 31 December 2012 3.8 3.7 1.9 0.5 1.3 11.2 Total non-current financial assets 128.6 13.9 142.5 Total financial assets 862.4 5.1 15.1 882.6 15 Accrued and other liabilities At 31 December 2012 2013 2012 Cash and cash equivalents 46.3 46.3 m m Short-term deposits 340.0 340.0 Accruals: Currency exchange contracts 1.4 1.4 Provision for payroll taxes on share awards 15.1 16.5 Accounts receivable gross of impairment provision 126.9 126.9 Employee bonus and sales commissions 26.5 23.8 Total current financial assets 513.2 1.4 514.6 Other accruals including 2.6 million non-current 2012: nil 40.0 31.0 Long-term deposits 141.3 141.3 Total accruals 81.6 71.3 Loans and receivables 2.1 2.1 Available-for-sale financial assets - unlisted 13.8 13.8 Other taxation and social security 4.4 3.4 Total non-current financial assets 143.4 13.8 157.2 Other payables 4.7 4.6 Total financial assets 656.6 1.4 13.8 671.8 Total accrued and other liabilities 90.7 79.3 Financial liabilities 16 Finance lease liabilities 2013 2012 m m 2013 2012 m m Liabilities at amortised cost at 31 December: Accounts payable 7.0 5.9 Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: Accrued and other liabilities 56.3 46.8 Within one year 2.9 3.1 Finance lease liabilities 4.2 5.8 In the second to fifth years inclusive 1.5 3.0 67.5 58.5 Less: future finance charges 0.2 0.3 Liabilities at fair value through the income statement at 31 December: Present value of lease obligations 4.2 5.8 Embedded derivatives 7.0 2.5 Total financial liabilities 74.5 61.0 Amounts due for settlement within 12 months 2.7 2.9 Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 1.5 2.9 Non-financial liabilities are excluded from the accrued and other liabilities balance, as this analysis is required only for financial instruments.
indd 97 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Financial instruments continued 17 Financial instruments continued a Financial instruments by category continued a Financial instruments by category continued Valuation hierarchy Loans and receivables As at 31 December 2013, the Groups financial instrument assets consisted of currency exchange contracts at fair value through the income During 2010 the Group invested 2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future Business.
This was recognised in loans and receivables statement level 2 of 5.1 million 2012: 1.4 million and AFS financial assets level 3 of 1.2 million current and 13.9 million non-current at its initial fair value of 1.9 million, measured using the effective interest method, which resulted in a charge of 0.6 million being recognised as 2012: 13.8 million non-current.
interest payable and similar charges during 2010.
In addition, during 2013 the Group invested a further 0.7 million with Future Business.
The As at 31 December 2013, the Groups financial instrument liabilities consisted of embedded derivatives level 2 of 7.0 million 2012: carrying value of the total loan amounted to 3.0 million at 31 December 2013 2012: 2.1 million, with 0.1 million being recognised as interest 2.5 million.
The Group had no level 1 financial instruments as at 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
Level 2 currency exchange contracts comprise forward exchange contracts and foreign currency options.
The fair value of the forward exchange Short-term deposits The effective interest rate on short-term deposits outstanding at the year end was 1.85% 2012: 2.70% and these deposits contracts is determined using forward exchange rates as quoted in an active market.
The fair value of foreign currency options is based upon have an average maturity of 178 days 2012: 190 days.
valuations performed by management and the respective banks holding the currency instruments.
Long-term deposits The effective interest rate on long-term deposits outstanding at the year end was 1.65% 2012: 3.32% and these deposits Level 2 embedded derivatives are fair valued using forward exchange rates that are quoted in an active market.
have an average maturity of 531 days 2012: 489 days.
Level 3 AFS financial assets consist of unlisted equity investments and other current investments.
The estimated fair value of the unlisted equity Derivative financial instruments investments approximates to cost less any permanent diminution in value based on managements estimate of forecast profitability and This table analyses the Groups derivative financial instruments into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance achievement of set objectives by the relevant entity, except where independent valuation information is obtained, e. g. through the occurrence sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Amounts due within of funding or other transactions in the relevant entity's equity instruments.
12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
The current investment was initially held at the value of the expected licensing programme related to the MIPS patent portfolio.
This was estimated Over three months Between Less than three but less than six months and Greater than by reference to the amounts that it was expected certain potential licensees would be prepared to pay for a licence.
At 31 December 2013 the months six months one year one year value of the current investment has been based on the amount that is recoverable from an auction process which was held in January 2014. m m m m Foreign exchange forward contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2013 Whilst it is conceivable that a key assumption in the Level 3 calculation could change, the directors believe that no reasonably foreseeable changes Outflow $98.0 $13.0 $23.0 $9.0 to key assumptions would result in a significant change in fair value.
Inflow 60.9 8.0 14.7 6.0 Maturity of financial liabilities Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2013 The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the balance sheet to Outflow maximum $41.0 $29.3 $26.2 the contractual maturity date.
Balances due within 12 months Inflow maximum 26.8 19.4 17.6 equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Foreign exchange forward contracts held-for-trading at 31 December 2012 Between Between Outflow $51.0 $8.0 $12.0 Less than six months and one and Over six months one year two years two years Inflow 31.9 5.0 7.5 m m m m Foreign exchange options held-for-trading at 31 December 2012 At 31 December 2013: Outflow maximum $38.9 $37.3 $13.5 Accounts payable 7.0 Inflow maximum 25.3 24.3 8.6 Accrued and other liabilities 52.8 0.9 2.6 Fair value of currency exchange contracts Finance lease liabilities 1.0 1.7 1.2 0.3 The fair value of currency exchange contracts is estimated using the settlement rates.
The estimation of the fair value of the asset in respect of Embedded derivatives 2.4 1.6 2.2 0.8 currency exchange contracts was 5.1 million at 31 December 2013 2012: 1.4 million.
The resulting gains and losses on the movement of the fair value of currency exchange contracts are recognised in the income statement under general and administrative expenses, amounting to a gain At 31 December 2012: of 3.4 million 2012: 8.3 million.
Accounts payable 5.9 Accrued and other liabilities 46.8 Finance lease liabilities 0.8 2.1 2.2 0.7 Embedded derivatives 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.4 During 2012, the Group entered into a three-month fixed-rate debt facility for $160 million 99.8 million to facilitate the contribution to acquire rights to MIPS Technologies, Incs portfolio of patents see note 6.
This facility was fully settled by 31 December 2012.
The Group had no borrowings during 2013.
indd 98 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Financial instruments continued 17 Financial instruments continued a Financial instruments by category continued a Financial instruments by category continued Valuation hierarchy Loans and receivables As at 31 December 2013, the Groups financial instrument assets consisted of currency exchange contracts at fair value through the income During 2010 the Group invested 2.5 million in an interest-free charitable bond with Future Business.
indd 99 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Financial instruments continued 17 Financial instruments continued b Credit quality of financial assets b Credit quality of financial assets continued Trade debtors Currency risk On a quarterly basis, all trade debtors more than three months overdue are considered for impairment on a line-by-line basis.
Either a provision At 31 December 2013, the Group had outstanding currency exchange contracts to sell $143 million 2012: $71 million for sterling.
In addition, is made or the lack thereof is justified, with review by senior members of the Groups finance team.
the Group utilises option instruments which have various provisions that, depending on the spot rate at maturity, give either the Group or the counterparty the option to exercise.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had outstanding currency options under which the Group may, under 2013 2012 certain circumstances, be required to sell up to $97 million 2012: $90 million for sterling.
A common scenario with options of this type is that the m m spot price at expiry is such that neither the Group nor the counterparty chooses to exercise the option.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had Trade debtors gross of impairment provision : $230 million 2012: $190 million of accounts receivable denominated in US dollars at that date, and US dollar cash and cash equivalents, and Not yet due 76.1 80.1 short-term deposits of $14 million 2012: $22 million.
Thus the Groups US dollar assets exceeded its currency exchange contracts and currency Under 90 days overdue 41.2 27.3 options at the year end.
Management assesses the volume and timing of currency exchange contracts taking into consideration both the current Over 90 days overdue but not provided for 13.2 9.3 and expected future level of US dollar assets.
Based on the predictable nature of the Groups cash flows, the Group typically has a greater value of Fully provided for 9.8 2.4 currency exchange contracts outstanding than US dollar assets held.
As such, after the balance sheet date, the Group has entered into additional Total 140.3 119.1 currency exchange contracts, returning the Group to its usual position in this regard, at the date of this report.
As shown above, at 31 December 2013 trade debtors less than 90 days overdue amounted to 41.2 million.
Of those outstanding at At 31 December 2013, if sterling had strengthened by 10% against foreign currencies with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the 31 December 2013, 22.8 million had been collected by 3 March 2014 and 15.3 million were owed by large, established customers.
Similarly, year would have been 9.5 million lower 2012: 12.1 million lower, mainly as a result of the mix of financial instruments at respective year ends.
debtors more than 90 days overdue and not provided for amounted to 13.2 million of which 5.0 million had been collected by 3 March 2014 18 Share capital and 4.2 million was owed by large, established customers.
For the remainder, discussions regarding repayment are ongoing and repayment schedules have been agreed with the customers concerned.
These will be monitored on a quarterly basis in accordance with the control outlined 2013 2012 m m above.
No further analysis has been provided here on the quality of these debts as they are not felt to pose a material threat to the Groups future results.
Authorised 2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2012: 2,200,000,000 1.1 1.1 As shown above, at 31 December 2013, trade debtors fully provided for amounted to 9.8 million 2012: 2.4 million.
Of those provided for at 31 December 2013, 4.0 million relates to trade debtors that are up to six months overdue 2012: 0.6 million and 5.8 million relates to trade debtors that are over six months overdue 2012: 1.8 million.
2013 2012 Number of Number of At 31 December 2013, no individual customer accounted for over 10% of accounts receivable 2012: one.
shares Value shares Value m m m m Credit risk Financial instrument counterparties are subject to pre-approval by the directors and such approval is limited to financial institutions with a Moodys Issued and fully paid rating of at least A2 P-1, a Fitch rating of at least A F1, or UK building societies with over 2 billion in assets, except in certain jurisdictions where At 1 January 1,380.8 0.7 1,351.3 0.7 the cash holding concerned is immaterial.
At 31 December 2013 and 2012, the majority of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, shortand longAllotted under employee incentive schemes 19.5 29.5 term deposits were deposited with major clearing banks and building societies in the UK and US in the form of money market deposits and At 31 December 1,400.3 0.7 1,380.8 0.7 corporate bonds for varying periods of up to three years.
At 31 December 2013, 98% 2012: 93% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents, and During 2013, the aggregate consideration received on issue of new share capital allotted under employee incentive schemes was 5.9 million shortand long-term deposits were deposited with major clearing banks and building societies fulfilling these criteria.
The majority of the Groups 2012: 5.6 million.
cash currently falling outside of the counterparty criteria is held with building societies that were within criteria when the deposits were placed.
19 Acquisitions Interest rate risk There were two acquisitions made in 2013: Sensinode Oy, acquired on 19 July 2013 for $11.7 million 7.7 million, and Geomerics Limited, At 31 December 2013, the Group had 713.7 million 2012: 523.6 million of interest-bearing assets.
The Group acquired the entire share capital of both entities, which have been accounted for of interest-bearing assets comprising cash and cash equivalents, shortand long-term deposits, loans and receivables, and the Groups convertible as acquisitions.
loan notes are at fixed rates and are therefore exposed to fair value interest rate risk.
Had interest rates been 1% 100 basis points lower throughout the year, interest receivable would have reduced by approximately 5.8 million 2012: 5.3 million and profit after tax by 4.6 million Sensinode, a company based in Oulu, Finland, is a provider of software technology for the Internet of Things IoT.
Sensinode is a pioneer in 2012: 4.0 million.
software for low-cost, low-power internet-connected devices and has been a key contributor to open standards for IoT.
This acquisition enables Sensinodes expertise and technology to be accessible to the ARM Partnership and through the ARM mbed project it will enable rapid deployment of new and innovative IoT applications.
Geomerics, a company based in Cambridge, United Kingdom, is a leader in lighting technology for the gaming and entertainment industries.
The acquisition expands ARM's position at the forefront of the visual computing and graphics industries.
Additionally, the agreement enables Geomerics to build on their existing partnerships as well as accelerate their development in the mobile market.
For the above reasons, combined with the ability to hire the workforce of both Sensinode and Geomerics, including the founders and the management team, the Group paid a premium for both companies, giving rise to goodwill.
All intangible assets were recognised at their fair values, with the residual excess over net assets being recognised as goodwill.
indd 100 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Financial instruments continued 17 Financial instruments continued b Credit quality of financial assets b Credit quality of financial assets continued Trade debtors Currency risk On a quarterly basis, all trade debtors more than three months overdue are considered for impairment on a line-by-line basis.
indd 101 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Acquisitions continued 20 Share-based payments continued From 19 July 2013 to 31 December 2013, the acquisition of Sensinode contributed 0.1 million in revenue and incurred a loss of nil.
If Sensinode The Group has in the past issued share options under several additional schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted to employees had been consolidated from 1 January 2013, the consolidated income statement would have included 0.2 million of revenue and 0.9 million of and directors.
Options are granted with a fixed exercise price equal to the market price of the shares under option at the date of grant.
schemes are the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan the Executive Scheme, the Unapproved Scheme the Unapproved Scheme, the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the acquisition of Artisan in 2004.
Shares From 12 December 2013 to 31 December 2013, the acquisition of Geomerics contributed nil in revenue and incurred a loss of 0.1 million.
options in these schemes are no longer granted, although the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward.
Shares If Geomerics had been consolidated from 1 January 2013, the consolidated income statement would have included 0.7 million of revenue and relating to these schemes have all vested in prior years and therefore there is no share-based payment charge associated with them for 2012 1.1 million of pre-tax loss.
The following table summarises the consideration and provisional fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of each As disclosed in note 4, staff expenses arising from these share-based compensation schemes of 59.2 million 2012: 37.1 million were charged acquisition.
to the income statement in the year.
This is in line with the Groups policies for recognition and measurement of the costs associated with these Sensinode Geomerics remuneration schemes as outlined in note 1.
19 July 2013 12 December 2013 The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, except for the ESPP whose fair m $m m value is the intrinsic value of the award at the date of vest.
The following assumptions for each option grant during 2013 and 2012 were as follows: Cash, accounts receivable, other current assets, property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.5 0.2 Grant date 16 Feb 2013 23 Jun 2013 30 Apr 2013 31 Oct 2013 16 Feb 2012 23 Jun 2012 16 Aug 2012 Intangible assets 2.8 4.3 5.0 Scheme ESPP SAYE ESPP ESPP ESPP SAYE ESPP Accrued and other liabilities 0.5 0.8 0.8 Share price at grant date 9.25 7.725 9.96 9.94 5.905 5.06 5.74 Loans payable 1.1 1.6 Exercise price 4.964 7.9616 5.6525 8.449 4.42 3.9616 4.876 Deferred tax liabilities net 0.2 0.3 1.0 Number of employees 391 350 151 605 373 490 372 Net assets acquired 1.3 2.1 3.4 Shares under option 330,676 210,605 35,386 228,335 333,464 720,922 306,497 Goodwill 6.4 9.6 10.0 Vesting period years 3-5 3-5 Consideration 7.7 11.7 13.4 Expected volatility 37%-40% 38%-43% Expected life years 3-5 3-5 The consideration for both acquisitions was paid in cash.
All transaction expenses incurred by the Group have been charged to the income Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.5% statement within general and administrative expenses.
Dividend yield 0.58% 0.69% Other Fair value per option 4.286 1.828-2.510 4.3075 1.491 1.485 1.728-2.175 0.864 During 2013 the Group made a payment of 2.0 million 2012: 2.2 million in respect of time-based and performance bonuses due as a result of the acquisition of Obsidian Software Inc in 2011.
The Group also made payments of 0.6 million 2012: 0.8 million in respect of time-based and performance bonuses due as a result of the acquisition of Prolific Inc in 2011.
20 Share-based payments Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a fixed exercise price.
The main RSU awards to employees in all jurisdictions other than France vest 25% on each anniversary over four years.
RSU awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
Additionally, the Company operates a DAB plan.
Under the DAB plan, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis.
These shares will be deferred for three years, and then a matching award will be made depending on the achievement of an EPS performance condition over that time.
This scheme will be replaced after the February 2014 grant and replaced with a cash-only bonus.
For details of the new scheme, see the Remuneration Report on page 41.
The Company also operates the LTIP, also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share awards are made and vest depending on the Companys TSR performance compared to two comparator groups over the three-year performance period.
Grants were made for the last time under this scheme in February 2013 and it will be replace by a new LTIP for 2014 grants onwards.
For details of the new scheme, see the Remuneration Report on page 42.
The Company also offers SAYE schemes for employees and executive directors of the Group.
The number of options granted is related to the value of savings made by the employee.
The period of savings is three or five years.
The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share price prior to the announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been completed.
The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees in the US, India, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, namely the ESPP.
The period of savings is six months, with the option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
indd 102 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Acquisitions continued 20 Share-based payments continued From 19 July 2013 to 31 December 2013, the acquisition of Sensinode contributed 0.1 million in revenue and incurred a loss of nil.
indd 103 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Share-based payments continued 20 Share-based payments continued The fair value of RSUs, LTIP and DAB awards granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
As all are Grant date 8 Feb 2012 8 Feb 2012 8 Feb 2012 8 Feb 2012 8 May 2012 share awards with no exercise price, all awards have been deemed to have an exercise price of 0.0000001 in the Black-Scholes model.
Dividend yield 0.55% 0.55% 0.55% 0.52% 0.52% The expected life is the expected period to exercise.
Fair value per share 8.69-8.836 8.69-8.787 8.738 9.30-9.446 9.30-9.397 A reconciliation of option and share award movements over the year to 31 December 2013 is shown below.
Share awards do not have an exercise price and therefore the reconciliation below shows only the number of awards, with no corresponding weighted average exercise prices.
indd 104 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Share-based payments continued 20 Share-based payments continued The fair value of RSUs, LTIP and DAB awards granted was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
indd 105 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Share-based payments continued 22 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments The weighted average share price at the date of exercise or vest of the above share options and awards was 9.29 2012: 5.72.
The following At 31 December 2013, the Group had commitments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: options over ordinary shares were in existence at 31 December: 2013 2012 2013 Land and Land and buildings Other Total buildings Other Total Weighted Weighted m m m m m m Weighted average average The future aggregate minimum lease payments under nonaverage remaining life remaining life Number exercise price Expected Contractual cancellable operating leases are as follows: outstanding Years Years Exercise price Within one year 8.5 18.3 26.8 6.8 20.4 27.2 Outstanding options: Later than one year and less than five years 23.1 5.3 28.4 16.9 21.5 38.4 0.7 0.854 571,846 0.76 0.49 0.78 After five years 9.0 9.0 6.7 6.7 1.01 1.055 19,166 1.04 0.52 1.05 At 31 December 40.6 23.6 64.2 30.4 41.9 72.3 1.25 1,360 1.25 0.04 0.08 The Group leases office buildings and EDA tools software under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The remaining lease terms are 1.948 7.96 1,377,547 4.51 2.00 2.25 between two and ten years, and the majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
Total 1,969,919 3.38 1.55 1.81 23 Financial contingencies It is common industry practice for licensors of technology to offer to indemnify their licensees for loss suffered by the licensee in the event that the Outstanding RSU LTIP DAB awards: technology licensed is held to infringe the IP of a third party.
Consistent with such practice, the Group provides such indemnification to its 0.00 RSUs 16,792,567 1.20 1.20 licensees.
The obligation for the Group to indemnify its licensees is subject to certain provisos and is usually contingent upon a third party bringing 0.00 LTIP 2,054,203 1.12 1.12 an action against the licensee alleging that the technology licensed by the Group to the licensee infringes such third partys IP rights.
The 0.00 DAB 1,380,886 1.06 1.06 indemnification obligations typically survive any termination of the licence and will continue in perpetuity.
Total 20,227,656 1.18 1.18 The Group does not provide for any such indemnities unless it has received notification from the other party that they are likely to invoke the 2012 indemnity.
A provision is made if both of the following conditions are met: i information available prior to the issuance of the financial statements Weighted Weighted indicates that it is probable that a liability had been incurred at the date of the financial statements: and ii the amount of the liability can be Weighted average average reasonably estimated.
Any such provision is based upon the directors estimate of the fair value of expected costs of any such claim.
average remaining life remaining life Number exercise price Expected Contractual At present, the Group is not a party in any legal proceedings in which the directors believe that it is probable that the resolution of such outstanding Years Years Exercise price proceedings will result in a material liability for the Group.
Currently, there are legal proceedings against some of the Groups licensees in which it Outstanding options: is asserted that certain of the Groups technology infringes third-party patents, but in each of those proceedings the Group either presently has no 0.47 0.854 1,514,873 0.72 0.87 1.37 obligation to indemnify, because certain preconditions to indemnification have not been satisfied by such licensees, or to the extent that there is 1.005 1.055 46,114 1.04 1.03 2.05 any present obligation to indemnify, the Group does not believe that it is probable that the resolution of such proceedings will result in a material 1.25 32,813 1.25 0.54 1.08 liability for the Group.
If preconditions to indemnification are satisfied then an indemnification obligation may arise which could result in a material 1.325 4.464 2,145,122 2.93 1.77 1.97 liability for the Group.
Total 3,738,922 1.99 1.38 1.72 24 Related party transactions During the year ended 31 December 2013 the Group incurred subscription costs of 7.0 million from Linaro Limited, an associated company Outstanding RSU LTIP DAB awards: of the Group, representing ARMs committed aggregate contributions to Linaro for a period of two years.
In respect of the subscription fees, 0.00 RSUs 16,750,069 0.93 0.93 the Group was invoiced 4.3 million during the year to 31 December 2013 2012: 4.2 million.
0.00 DAB 2,316,451 1.06 1.06 In addition the Group provided consulting and other services to Linaro amounting to 1.6 million 2012: 1.7 million.
All fees have been charged Total 23,255,834 0.92 0.92 in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
As at 31 December 2013, 0.3 million 2012: 1.0 million was owed to the Group.
Further information relating to Linaro is disclosed in note 26.
21 Capital and other financial commitments Key management compensation is disclosed in note 3.
2013 2012 m m There were no other related party transactions during 2013 which require disclosure.
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided for in the financial statements 9.8 0.6 25 Post-balance sheet events Included in the amount for 2013 is 9.1 million of equipment relating to the expansion of the US high-performance computing cluster.
After the year end, the directors proposed payment of a final dividend in respect of 2013 of 3.6 pence per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders on the register on 22 April 2014.
The final dividend has not been recognised as a distribution during the year ended 31 December 2013.
indd 106 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Share-based payments continued 22 Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments The weighted average share price at the date of exercise or vest of the above share options and awards was 9.29 2012: 5.72.
indd 107 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements Company balance sheet UK GAAP continued 26 Principal subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures 2013 2012 Note m m At 31 December Subsidiaries Fixed assets Details of principal subsidiary undertakings are shown below.
Not all subsidiaries are included as the list would be excessive in length.
A full list is Investments 4 653.3 616.1 filed in the Groups Annual Return.
All investments are indirectly held unless otherwise shown.
Current assets Proportion of total Debtors 5 1.5 0.8 nominal value of Name of undertaking Country of registration Principal activity issued shares held Cash at bank and in hand 0.7 0.9 ARM Limited England and Wales Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 100 2.2 1.7 microprocessors and graphics IP.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 6 46.0 3.0 ARM Inc.
US Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 100 Net current liabilities 43.8 1.3 microprocessors and physical IP.
Total assets less current liabilities 609.5 614.8 ARM France SAS France Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 100 Net assets 609.5 614.8 microprocessors and physical IP.
Capital and reserves ARM Norway AS Norway Research and development of graphics IP.
100 Called-up share capital 7 0.7 0.7 ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt.
Limited India Marketing, research and development of RISC-based 100 Share premium account 8 18.1 12.2 microprocessors and physical IP.
Share option reserve 8 61.4 61.4 ARM Consulting Shanghai Co. Limited PR China Marketing, research and development of graphics IP.
100 Profit and loss reserve 8 529.3 540.5 The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited.
Both ARM Total shareholders funds 9 609.5 614.8 Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group.
Associate The financial statements on pages 109 to 114 were approved by the Board of directors on 5 March 2014 and were signed on its behalf by: During 2010 the Group became a founder member of Linaro, a not-for-profit engineering company created to foster innovation in the Linux community.
Linaro a company incorporated in the UK is a company limited by guarantee and as such has no shareholders.
The Group controls only 25% of the board and therefore considers Linaro to be an associate rather than a subsidiary.
The Group has not recognised any associate profit or loss, or net assets on the basis that the entity is not-for-profit.
Joint venture Simon Segars, Tim Score, In 2012 the Group invested 7.5 million $12.0 million in a joint venture, Trustonic Limited a company incorporated in the UK, representing a Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 40% shareholding.
With the establishment of industry standards and demand for security enhanced services the focus of Trustonic is to accelerate the wide deployment of secure, smart devices.
During 2013 the Group invested a further 3.7 million 4.4 million into the joint venture, maintaining the 40% shareholding.
2013 2012 Investment in joint venture m m At 1 January 6.8 Investment 3.7 7.5 Share of results for the period 4.0 0.7 At 31 December 6.5 6.8 The Groups share of the results of the joint venture, and its aggregated assets and liabilities, are as follows: Non-current Current Loss for the Current assets assets liabilities Income Expenses Tax year Trustonic Limited m m m m m m m At 31 December 2013 3.9 6.5 3.9 2.5 6.7 0.2 4.0 At 31 December 2012 3.7 4.6 1.5 0.7 0.7 The Groups share of joint venture capital commitments amount to 0.1 million at 31 December 2013 2012: 0.6 million.
indd 108 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements Company balance sheet UK GAAP continued 26 Principal subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures 2013 2012 Note m m At 31 December Subsidiaries Fixed assets Details of principal subsidiary undertakings are shown below.
indd 109 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 1 Principal accounting policies 2 Profit for the financial year The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the UK.
A As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the parent companys profit and loss account has not been included in these financial summary of the more important accounting policies, which have been consistently applied and reviewed by the board of directors in accordance statements.
The parent companys loss after taxation, including dividends receivable and before dividends payable was 1.5 million 2012: with Financial Reporting Standard FRS 18, Accounting policies, is set out below: 1.9 million.
The Company has no employees: all three executive directors as at 31 December 2013 have contracts of service with ARM Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
The emoluments of two of these directors are paid by ARM Limited, and one of the directors is paid Basis of accounting The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with the historical cost convention.
by ARM Inc, the details of which are disclosed in the remuneration report within this Annual Report.
Audit fees are disclosed in note 5 to the Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are initially recorded at cost.
Where an acquisition satisfies the provisions of section 612 consolidated financial statements on page 84. of the Companies Act 2006 for merger relief, the investment is stated at the nominal value of shares issued plus the fair value of any other 3 Dividends paid and proposed consideration.
2013 2012 Cash flow statement The Company has not presented a separate cash flow statement.
The cash flows for the Company are included within the m m consolidated financial statements.
Final dividend paid of 2.83 pence per ordinary share in respect of 2012 2012: 2.09 pence in respect of 2011 39.5 28.8 Foreign currency Transactions denominated in foreign currencies have been translated into sterling at actual rates of exchange at the date of the Interim dividend paid of 2.10 pence 2012: 1.67 pence per ordinary share 29.4 23.0 transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies have been translated at the closing rates of exchange at the balance 68.9 51.8 sheet date.
Exchange differences have been included in operating profit.
In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 3.6 pence per share which will Taxation Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted absorb an estimated 51 million of shareholders funds.
It will be paid on 16 May 2014 to shareholders who are on the register of members on by the balance sheet date.
22 April 2014, subject to approval by the shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Financial instruments The Company does not have any financial instruments, other than intercompany creditors and debtors, and cash.
Due to 4 Investments the short-term nature of these balances, the Company considers the fair value of these items to equal the carrying value.
Because the Company is The cost and net book value of interests in Group undertakings held by the Company was 653.3 million at 31 December 2013 and included in the consolidated financial statements of the ARM Holdings plc Group which are publicly available, and the financial disclosures required 616.1 million at 31 December 2012.
The Company took advantage of merger relief in 2004 and did not record the premium on the issue of by FRS 29 are in note 17 of those financial statements, no disclosure has been presented in these financial statements.
shares for the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. now ARM Inc., and thus did not record the premium within the value of the investment in the Company balance sheet at that time.
Share schemes The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments, including an LTIP, to certain employees of subsidiary undertakings.
In accordance with FRS 20, equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is measured by use of Investments in the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed in the subsidiary undertakings accounts of the subsidiary companies on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the number of shares m that will eventually vest.
Cost and net book value The Company operates SAYE schemes in the UK and an ESPP in the US, India, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan.
Options under the SAYE scheme At 1 January 2013 616.1 were at a 20% discount to market price of the underlying shares on the date of announcement of the scheme.
The UK SAYE schemes are Additions 0.1 approved by the Inland Revenue, which stipulates that the saving period must be at least 36 months.
Capital contributions arising from share-based payments 59.2 Recharge to subsidiary of share-based payments 22.1 The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available, and has applied the provisions of FRS 20 only to those options granted after 7 November 2002 and which were outstanding at 31 December 2004.
The Company does not have any employees and as such, in accordance At 31 December 2013 653.3 with UITF 44, all share-based payments have been recorded as capital contributions to all subsidiaries.
The Company recharges the relevant Where options and awards over the Companys shares have been issued to the employees of subsidiary undertakings, the fair value of employee amount of the share-based payments to its US subsidiary.
Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying value of its services performed equal to the share-based payments has been recorded as a capital contribution.
The Company recharges the relevant investments.
amount of the share-based payments to its US subsidiary.
Consequently, the amount recharged is offset against the carrying value Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Dividends A liability is recorded for a dividend when the dividend is approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets.
Interests in Group undertakings Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Details of subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Deferred tax is measured at the average rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the timing difference is expected to reverse, Proportion of nominal value based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on an Country Description of issued undiscounted basis.
of registration of shares held shares held Name of undertaking ARM Limited England and Wales Ordinary 1 shares less than 0.01% ARM IP Limited England and Wales Ordinary 1 shares 100% ARM Finance UK Limited England and Wales Ordinary $1 shares 100% The Company itself owns less than 1% of the share capital of ARM Limited, the remaining shares are held indirectly through ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited.
Both ARM Finance UK Limited and ARM Finance UK Three Limited are 100% owned within the Group.
indd 110 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP 1 Principal accounting policies 2 Profit for the financial year The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the UK.
indd 111 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 4 Investments continued 7 Called-up share capital continued The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and graphics IP.
The remaining Number Year of grant of share awards Latest vest date shares in ARM Limited were held at the balance sheet date by ARM Finance UK Limited AFL and ARM Finance UK Three Limited AFL3 with RSU 2010 2,417,436 12 November 2014 AFL3 itself being an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AFL.
The principal activities of both AFL and AFL3 are as intermediate holding companies.
2011 2,833,120 12 November 2015 5 Debtors 2012 2,410,868 12 November 2016 2013 2012 2013 8,404,823 12 November 2017 m m 16,066,247 Prepayments and accrued income 1.2 0.5 French RSU 2010 128,769 12 November 2014 Deferred tax assets 0.3 0.3 2011 153,375 12 November 2015 1.5 0.8 2012 130,087 12 November 2016 A deferred tax asset in respect of timing differences arising on losses has been recognised, and it is expected that profits will be available in the future to offset these losses.
2013 314,089 12 November 2017 726,320 6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year LTIP 2011 621,132 8 February 2014 2013 2012 2012 782,375 8 February 2015 m m 2013 650,696 8 February 2016 Amounts owed to Group undertakings 45.7 2.7 2,054,203 Accruals 0.3 0.3 DAB 2011 430,102 8 February 2014 46.0 3.0 2012 586,666 8 February 2015 7 Called-up share capital 2013 364,118 8 February 2016 1,380,886 2013 2012 m m Total awards 20,227,656 Authorised Total options and awards 22,197,575 2,200,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2012: 2,200,000,000 1.1 1.1 Since 2006, the Company has issued RSUs to employees, which are actual share awards on vesting rather than options to buy shares at a fixed Allotted, called-up and fully paid exercise price.
RSU 1,400,263,804 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each 2012: 1,380,768,350 0.7 0.7 awards to our French employees vest 50% after two years, and then a further 25% after three and four years.
19,495,454 ordinary shares of 0.05 pence each were issued in the year for cash consideration of 5.9 million 2012: 5.6 million as a result of the Additionally, the Company operates a DAB plan.
Under the DAB plan, which is for directors and selected senior management within the Group, exercise of share options at various times during the year.
participants are required to defer 50% of any related annual bonus into shares on a compulsory basis.
This scheme will Share options and awards be replaced after the February 2014 grant and replaced with a cash-only bonus.
For details of the new scheme, see the Remuneration Report on The Company had the following options and awards outstanding over ordinary shares of 0.05 pence at 31 December 2013: page 41.
Weighted Range of average exercise The Company also operates the LTIP, also for directors and selected senior management, whereby share awards are made and vest depending Number exercise prices price Latest date on the Companys TSR performance compared to two comparator groups over the three-year performance period.
Grants were made for the Year of grant of options of exercise last time under this scheme in February 2013 and it will be replaced by a new LTIP for 2014 grants onwards.
For details of the new scheme, see Executive Scheme 2004 1,360 1.25 1.25 29 January 2014 the Remuneration Report on page 42.
2005 14,166 1.055 1.055 3 February 2015 The Company also offers SAYE scheme for employees and executive directors of the Group.
The number of options granted is related to the 15,526 1.072 value of savings made by the employee.
The option price for grants is set at 80% of the market share 2003 Plan 2004 376,925 0.7-1.01 0.7086 29 November 2014 price prior to the announcement of the grant, and the right to exercise normally only arises for a six-month period once the savings have been SAYE 2009 199,921 0.854 0.854 31 January 2015 completed.
The Company also operates a savings-related option scheme for employees in the US, India, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan, namely 2010 126,730 1.948 1.948 31 January 2016 the ESPP.
The period of savings is six months, with the 2011 363,300 4.464 4.464 31 January 2017 option price being at 85% of the lower of the market share price at the beginning and end of the scheme.
2012 680,302 3.9616 3.9616 31 January 2018 The Group has in the past issued share options under several additional schemes, whereby shares in the Company can be granted to employees 2013 207,215 7.96 7.96 31 January 2019 and directors.
These 1,577,468 4.0469 schemes are the UK Inland Revenue Executive Approved Share Option Plan the Executive Scheme, the Unapproved Scheme the Total options 1,969,919 3.3847 Unapproved Scheme, the French Scheme and various schemes that the Company assumed on the acquisition of Artisan in 2004.
Shares in these schemes are no longer granted, although the Company reserves the right to award options to employees going forward.
Shares relating to these schemes have all vested in prior years and therefore there is no share-based payment charge associated with them for 2012 or 2013.
indd 112 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP continued 4 Investments continued 7 Called-up share capital continued The principal activity of ARM Limited is the marketing, research and development of RISC-based microprocessors and graphics IP.
indd 113 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc continued 7 Called-up share capital continued Report on the parent company financial statements For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair value assumptions, reconciliations of opening to closing option balances, and related items, Our opinion please refer to note 20 in the consolidated financial statements.
In our opinion the parent company financial statements, defined below: 8 Reserves give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Share premium Share option Profit and account reserve loss reserve have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. m m m This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say in the remainder of this report.
At 1 January 2013 12.2 61.4 540.5 Premium on issue of share options 5.9 What we have audited Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments 59.2 The parent company financial statements, which are prepared by ARM Holdings plc, comprise: Loss attributable to shareholders 1.5 the parent company balance sheet as at 31 December 2013: Equity dividends payable 68.9 the notes to the parent company financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other At 31 December 2013 18.1 61.4 529.3 explanatory information.
The share option reserve represents the fair value of options granted on the acquisition of Artisan Components Inc. in 2004.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Company considers the share option reserve and share premium account as non-distributable.
Within the profit and loss reserve are credits in respect of FRS 20 employee share-based payments in respect of services performed by employees of subsidiary undertakings and recorded as In applying the financial reporting framework, the directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant a capital contribution.
The Company also considers these credits as non-distributable.
As such, approximately 324 million of the profit and loss accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events.
What an audit of financial statements involves The Company did not undertake any share buy-backs during 2013.
The quantum and frequency of share repurchases is not predetermined and We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves will take into account prevailing market conditions, the shortto medium-term cash needs of the business and the level of employee share-based obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial remuneration going forward.
At 31 December 2013, there were nil 2012: nil shares in the Company still held from purchases made in statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: prior years.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances, and have been consistently applied and 9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds adequately disclosed: 2013 2012 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: m m the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Loss attributable to shareholders 1.5 1.9 In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report and accounts the annual report to identify material Equity dividends payable 68.9 51.8 inconsistencies with the audited parent company financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based 70.4 53.7 on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent New share capital issued 5.9 5.6 material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Credit in respect of capital contributions arising from share-based payments 59.2 37.1 Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Net reduction to shareholders funds 5.3 11.0 In our opinion: Opening shareholders funds 614.8 625.8 Closing shareholders funds 609.5 614.8 The information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the parent Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
10 Capital commitments The part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 December 2013 and 2012.
11 Financial commitments and contingencies At 31 December 2013 and 2012 the Company had no annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases and no contingencies.
12 Related party transactions The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosure available to parent companies under FRS 8, Related party disclosures, where transactions and balances between wholly owned Group entities have been eliminated on consolidation.
13 Post-balance sheet events After the year end, the directors proposed payment of a final dividend in respect of 2013 of 3.6 pence per share.
indd 114 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Notes to the financial statements UK GAAP Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc continued 7 Called-up share capital continued Report on the parent company financial statements For disclosures relating to the grants in the year and fair value assumptions, reconciliations of opening to closing option balances, and related items, Our opinion please refer to note 20 in the consolidated financial statements.
indd 115 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc Glossary continued Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Apps Application software that runs within the chip.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received ARM7 9 11 ARM7 processor was one of ARMs first commercial products.
ARM9 and ARM11 processors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: followed later.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or ARMv8 Latest family of ARM processor designs.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from big.
LITTLE Combination of two different ARM processors on a single chip: one big that delivers high-performance branches not visited by us: or when needed with the other LITTLE running most of the time, enabling long battery-life.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the CAGR Compound annual growth rate.
Directors remuneration Ecosystem Community of companies that work with ARM, including semiconductor companies, foundries, OEMs Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have and software providers.
These chips are typically manufactured Other information in the annual report by a foundry.
For example Mediatek, NVIDIA and Qualcomm.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: Foundry A foundry is a specialist company that manufacturers computer chips on behalf of fabless semiconductor materially inconsistent with the information in the audited parent company financial statements: or companies.
apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired in the course Intellectual Property IP ARM designs technology for use in computer chips.
The general term for the products that are designs of performing our audit: or only, or are creations of the mind, is intellectual property.
They pay an upfront free, which Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit is reported as licence revenue.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company LTE Long Term Evolution or 4G is the next generation wireless standard for mobile phones.
It is optimised financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
for data streaming allowing internet connections at speeds similar to broadband in the home.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Microcontroller MCU A microcontroller is a general-purpose computer chip which has been can be used in many applications.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Original Equipment An OEM manufactures consumer products such as TVs or mobile phones.
For example Apple, HTC purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior Manufacturer OEM and LG.
Partner A Partner is a licensee of ARMs processor technology.
Other matter Physical IP Design of the building blocks used in the implementation a SoC design.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of ARM Holdings plc for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Processor Optimisation Pack Physical IP components that have been selected and optimised to implement a processor on a specific POP foundrys manufacturing process.
Charles Bowman Royalty ARM receives a royalty on every chip that contains ARM technology.
The royalty is usually a percentage Senior Statutory Auditor of the selling price of the chip and is reported as royalty revenue.
for and on behalf of  LLP STB Set-top box.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors System-on-Chip SoC A SoC is a computer chip where multiple functions have been integrated into a single chip.
Most ARM London processors are used in either an SoC or MCU.
indd 116 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ARM Holdings plc Glossary continued Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Apps Application software that runs within the chip.
indd 117 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Group directory ARM Holdings plc Miniparc Polytec ARM Inc.
ARM KK ARM Consulting ARM Taiwan Limited 110 Fulbourn Road 60 Rue des Berges 150 Rose Orchard Way Shinyokohama Square Bldg.
36, Ruihu Street Cambridge CB1 9NJ 38000 Grenoble San Jose, CA 95134-1358 2-3-12 Shin-Yokohama 35F, Building B, Nei-Hu District United Kingdom France United States Kohoku-Ku, Yokohama-Shi New CHJ International Business Centre Taipei City Tel: 44 0 1223 400400 Tel: 33 4 56 38 47 00 Tel: 1 408 576 1500 Kanagawa 222-0033 No.
C Tel: 81 45 477 5260 PR China Tel: 886 2 8752 1700 ARM Limited ARM Germany GmbH The Park on Barton Creek Fax: 81 45 477 5261 Tel: 86 21 6154 9000 Fax: 886 2 2627 1682 Liberty House Bretonischer Ring 16 3711 S. Mopac Expressway Fax: 86 21 6154 9100 Moorbridge Road D-85630 Grasbrunn Building 1, Suite 400 ARM Korea Limited 7F, No.
2, Li-Hsin th Maidenhead Germany Austin, TX 78746 8th Floor Kyungdong Building Room 602, Ideal Plaza 6 Road Hsinchu Science Park Berkshire SL6 8LT Tel: 49 89 456 040-0 United States 4-4 Sunae-Dong 58 West Road Hsinchu City United Kingdom Fax: 49 89 456 040-19 Tel: 1 512 327 9249 Bundang-Gu, Seongnam-si North 4th Ring Road 30078 Tel: 44 0 1628 427700 Fax: 1 512 314 1078 Gyeonggi-do 463-020 Haidian District Taiwan R. O. C. Obrtna Cesta 18 Fax: 44 0 1628 427701 Korea Beijing 100080 Tel: 886 3 565 7100 SL-8310 5 East Street Tel: 82 31 712 8234 PR China Fax: 886 3 567 7128 Rockingham Court Sentjernej Franklin, MA 02038 Fax: 82 31 713 8225 Tel: 86 10 8217 2000 152 Rockingham Street Slovenia United States Fax: 86 10 8217 2010 Sheffield S1 4EB Tel: 1 970 532 0767 ARM Embedded ARM Israel United Kingdom Fax: 1 508 520 1907 Technologies Pvt.
Limited Unit 13B01, Anlian Plaza 3 Hagavish Street Tel: 44 0 114 282 8000 Bagmane World Technology Center SEZ No.
4018, Jin Tian Road 44424 Kfar Saba 2 Venture Suite 470 th th Fax: 44 0 114 282 8001 Citrine Block, 5 and 6 Floor Futian District Israel Irvine, CA 92618 Marathahalli Outer Ring Road Shenzhen 518006 Blackburn Design Centre Tel: 972.9.
7644888 United States Mahaderapura PR China Belthorn House Fax: 972.9.
Towers, Plot no: IA I Sector 16A Tel: 47 7318 7500 United States Film City, Noida 201301 Geomerics Limited Fax: 47 7351 3181 Tel: 1 972 312 1107 Uttar Pradesh 110 Fulbourn Road Fax: 1 972 312 1159 ARM Sweden AB Cambridge Lilla Fiskaregatan 12 2002 Caton Way SW CB1 9NJ SE-222 22 Lund Olympia United Kingdom Sweden WA 98502-1119 Tel: 44 0 1223 400400 Tel: 46 46 540 11 04 United States ARM France SAS Fax: 46 46 14 48 08 Tel: 1 408 576 1500 12 Avenue des Prs ARM Finland Oy 5375 Mira Sorrento Place BL204 Montigny le Konekuja 2 Suite 290 Bretonneux Fl-90620 Oulu San Diego, CA 92121 78059 Saint Quentin en Finland United States Yvelines, Cedex Tel: 358 10 387 8680 Tel: 1 858 453 1900 France th ARM Belgium Services BVBA 2320 130 Avenue NE Tel: 33 1 39 30 47 89 Mechelsesteenweg 277 Building E, Suite 220 Fax: 33 1 39 30 47 88 1800 Vilvoorde Bellevue 25 Alle Pierre Ziller Belgium WA 98005 Le Paros Tel: 32 2 3045598 United States BP 70124 Tel: 1 408 576 1500 06903 Sophia Antipolis Cedex France Tel: 33 4 97 23 51 00 Fax: 33 4 97 23 51 99 118 017043 ARM GovernanceFinancials 2013 WORD.
indd 118 10 03 2014 21:00 Governance Financial Report Group directory ARM Holdings plc Miniparc Polytec ARM Inc.
Towers, Plot no: IA I Sector 16A Tel: 47 7318 7500 United States Film City, Noida 201301 Geomerics Limited Fax: 47 7351 3181 Tel: 1 972 312 1107 Uttar Pradesh 110 Fulbourn Road Fax: 1 972 312 1159 ARM Sweden AB Cambridge Lilla Fiskaregatan 12 2002 Caton Way SW CB1 9NJ SE-222 22 Lund Olympia United Kingdom Sweden WA 98502-1119 Tel: 44 0 1223 400400 Tel: 46 46 540 11 04 United States ARM France SAS Fax: 46 46 14 48 08 Tel: 1 408 576 1500 12 Avenue des Prs ARM Finland Oy 5375 Mira Sorrento Place BL204 Montigny le Konekuja 2 Suite 290 Bretonneux Fl-90620 Oulu San Diego, CA 92121 78059 Saint Quentin en Finland United States Yvelines, Cedex Tel: 358 10 387 8680 Tel: 1 858 453 1900 France th ARM Belgium Services BVBA 2320 130 Avenue NE Tel: 33 1 39 30 47 89 Mechelsesteenweg 277 Building E, Suite 220 Fax: 33 1 39 30 47 88 1800 Vilvoorde Bellevue 25 Alle Pierre Ziller Belgium WA 98005 Le Paros Tel: 32 2 3045598 United States BP 70124 Tel: 1 408 576 1500 06903 Sophia Antipolis Cedex France Tel: 33 4 97 23 51 00 Fax: 33 4 97 23 51 99 119 017043 ARM GovernanceFinancials 2013 WORD.
indd 119 10 03 2014 21:00 ARM Holdings plc Governance and Financial Report 2013 Key shareholder information ARM Holdings plc is the parent Legal advisers company of the Group UK Law Company Number: 2548782 Slaughter and May Incorporated in England & Wales One Bunhill Row Domiciled in the UK London EC1Y 8YY Public company limited by shares United Kingdom Secretary and registered office Linklaters Patricia Alsop One Silk Street 110 Fulbourn Road London EC2Y 8HQ Cambridge CB1 9NJ United Kingdom United Kingdom US Law Independent auditors Davis Polk & Wardwell  LLP 99 Gresham Street 1 Embankment Place London EC2V 7NG London WC2N 6RH United Kingdom United Kingdom Stockbrokers For more shareholder information please UBS Limited contact Ian Thornton at 2 Finsbury Avenue investor.
com London EC2M 2PP Our website contains information United Kingdom for shareholders, including regular strategic, Goldman Sachs business and financial updates.
com ir 133 Fleet Street London EC4A 2BB United Kingdom Registrars Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA United Kingdom Shareholder Helpline 0871 384 2139 Depositary The Bank of New York Mellon 101 Barclays Street New York New York 10286 United States of America 120 017043 ARM GovernanceFinancials 2013 WORD.
indd 120 10 03 2014 21:00 WelcoMe to oUR goveRnAnce And finAnciAl RepoRt ARMs annual report is in two parts.
com reporting2013 Members of ARM Holdings plc 115 Chief Financial Officers review glossary and group directory Summary accounts Glossary 117 Glossary Group directory 118 Key shareholder information 120 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Governance & Financial Report ARM Holdings plc 110 Fulbourn Road Cambridge CB1 9NJ United Kingdom Telephone 44 0 1223 400400 Facsimile 44 0 1223 400410 www.
com armflix And stRong finAnciAl peRfoRMAnce ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2013: Governance & Financial Report
