governance diRECtoRS REPoRt CONTINUED bRAnches The Companys subsidiaries Playtech Retail Limited and PT Turnkey Services Limited have established branch offices in the Philippines.
stAtement Of diRectORs ResPOnsibilities The directors have elected to prepare the financial statements for the Company and the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are responsible under applicable law and regulation for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
International Accounting Standard 1 revised requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
A fair presentation also requires the directors to: select and apply appropriate accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
All of the current directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any information needed by the Groups auditors for the purposes of their audit and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The directors are not aware of any relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
In addition, the directors at the date of this report consider that the financial statements taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The financial statements are published on the Groups website.
The maintenance and integrity of the Groups website is the responsibility of the directors.
The directors responsibility also extends to the continued integrity of the financial statements contained therein.
Playtech plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 diRectORs stAtement PuRsuAnt tO the disclOsuRe And tRAnsPARency Rules Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed within the Governance section on page 46 confirm that, tothe best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
AnnuAl geneRAl meeting The annual general meeting AGM in 2013 was held in May in Douglas, Isle of Man.
All directors were present, and made themselves available to answer questions from shareholders.
The AGM provides an opportunity for the directors to communicate personally performance and future strategy to non-institutional shareholders and for those shareholders to meet with and question the Board.
All directors again plan to be present.
All results of proxy votes are read out, made available for review at the meeting, recorded in the minutes of the meeting and communicated to the market and via the Group website.
The annual general meeting for 2014 will be held at the Sefton Hotel, Loch Promenade, Douglas, Isle of Man, IM1 2RW on Wednesday 21 May 2014 at 10:00am.
The notice convening the annual general meeting for this year, and an explanation of the items of non-routine business are set out in the circular that accompanies the Annual Report.
AuditORs So far as each director is aware, at the date of the approval of the financial statements there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information A resolution to reappoint BDO LLP as the Companys auditors will be submitted to the shareholders at this years AGM.
Approved by the Board and signed on behalf of the Board Paul Wright Company Secretary & Legal Counsel 20 February 2014 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
