Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Strategic report 16 17 Strategic report Chief Executives review Robust operating performance As reported in more detail in the Chairmans statement, A successful Polymetal exceeded its original production guidance for the second consecutive year, delivering an increase of 21% year-on-year, which was 7% above our production guidance.
yeAR of This robust achievement was driven by the successful ramp-up at Amursk and Mayskoye and strong operational delivery at the Dukat hub.
DeliveRy Annual gold production was 805 Koz 2012: 589 Koz, up 37% year-on-year with significant increases coming AnD GRoWtH from Albazino and Mayskoye.
Annual silver production was 27.2 Moz 2012: 26.5 Moz, up 3% year-on-year and helped by the increased throughput at the Dukat hub which more than offset the expected grade-driven decline at Khakanja.
2013 was a year when the worlds The newly commissioned flagship Amursk POX plant, after all initial issues had been addressed, successfully achieved gold miners were tested for their Ore concentrate storage at Albazino The helicopter landing strip at Amursk design throughput and recovery in the second half of the year ability to withstand market challenges averaging 93% in Q4.
This is an important strategic milestone for the Company which now possesses a unique competitive safety rules by the employee.
We have already implemented as prices experienced their lowest a number of additional safety measures and enforcements advantage in the FSU.
dip for nearly two decades.
While the to existing safety rules across our operating mines.
2 1% drop in commodity prices impacted Mayskoye, our newest underground mine and processing Production growth in 2013 plant, ramped up to full capacity, marking the full completion We are conscious of our long-term commitments on performance, Polymetal demonstrated to the economic, social and environmental wellbeing of a major investment cycle between 2009 and 2012. resilience by delivering on its promises of the people and places associated with our operations.
We have an ongoing programme of initiatives that support job Strategy and responding to the challenge swiftly Our strong production results were underpinned by a strategic creation, the development of local and regional infrastructure, and effectively.
1, 086 health, education, culture, welfare and sports.
Our investment commitment to capital discipline and to sustaining value in the long-term.
We were quick to respond to the changing market priorities are determined through regular feedback from, All-in sustaining cash costs in 2013, and our experience of working with, local communities and environment by trimming capital expenditure, suspending US$ GE oz higher cost assets and stabilising cost performance.
indigenous peoples over many years.
Our day-to-day conduct is guided by and complies with the UN Global Compact and All of these decisions will help preserve both the long-term value and the optionality of the Companys portfolio.
the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples.
138 Financial performance Looking to the future Our plans for 2014 and beyond already take into account While our financial results were unavoidably impacted by Free cash flow in 2013 lower prices, this was partially offset by strong operating the current reduced level of commodity prices.
Due to the unchanged to 2012, US$ million high reserve grade and conservative price assumptions used performance and decreased capital expenditure.
We continued to generate a strong free cash flow despite the in our life-of-mine models, the vast majority of our long-term mine plans remain intact after the recent price decline.
All our challenging market conditions.
This allowed the Company both to sustain dividend flow to shareholders and to maintain operating mines continue to generate positive cash flows and can withstand further fluctuations in the gold and silver price.
a strong balance sheet position, which in turn will provide us with flexibility for further organic and acquisition growth As a result, the Company reconfirms its production guidance Vitaly Nesis of 1.3 Moz of gold equivalent for 2014 and 1.35 Moz for 2015, opportunities in the current market environment.
Chief Executive as well as our medium-term production guidance Sustainability of 1.4 Moz in 2016.
Polymetal is one of the employers of choice in the mining sector in Russia and Kazakhstan, employing Our strategic focus is on new growth assets through both nearly 9,000 people at 31 December 2013.
Alongside the the internal pipeline and M&A activities.
We hope to deliver responsible development of our business, the wellbeing significant progress on both of these in 2014, but any decisions of our dedicated staff is paramount to the success of the about either route will be subject to our usual commitment Company.
We have made solid progress across all business to capital discipline.
operations to put in place an employee protection and workplace safety management system.
Our health and safety focus for 2013-15 is to enhance our capabilities in three key areas training, visualisation and monitoring as well as rolling out the system to our supplier and contractor network.
Vitaly Nesis Our lost time injury frequency for the year reduced by 3% Chief Executive over 2012.
However, it is with great sadness that we report one fatality in 2013 at the Ozerny open-pit mine in the Khakanja hub.
A formal investigation into the incident has revealed a serious breach of both internal and statutory s t e s s a e d a Annual Report 2013 Polymetal International plc Strategic report 18 19 r g - h g i h n o L e g v n e i r s a u g c M i o n a i F g n e t o c a u i n n r a i h n n r g u e b e v - x o b e g a m y s r p e a l a l Strategic report Business model Our business model is composed of three interdependent elements: our investment in exploration, a focus on high-grade ouR business opeRAtinG to assets and the development of our hub-based operating system.
These are all underpinned by our adherence to strong governance principles.
moDel foR A consistent success stRAteGy The consistent implementation The objective of our business model Delivering of our strategy is at the heart is to ensure that we remain successful Open-pit mining at Khakanja sustainable of our successful track record.
in our market and, in doing so, deliver value sustainable value to our stakeholders.
The methodology that we have developed focuses on our capabilities for increasing 01 AcHieve DesiGn cApAcity At All plAnts 04 vAlue-DRiven oRGAnic AnD our resource base and enhancing AnD tARGeteD pRoDuction volumes 1.4 moZ inoRGAnic GRoWtH our processes for improving both production efficiency and grades.
Achieve design capacity at projects currently under Acquisitions construction or in ramp-up phase by the second half of 2013 Pursuit of selected synergistic bolt-on or other value-accretive focusing on high-grade assets and achieve production level of 1.4 Moz of gold equivalent acquisition opportunities with a view to leveraging processing Return on investment in the precious metals industry is largely ounces in 2016.
Assets under construction or ramp-up phase capacity, infrastructure and operational expertise at our existing driven by two key cost factors: grades and mining conditions.
expected to generate production growth are the Amursk POX processing hubs, adding substantial new standalone mines We achieve better returns and lower risks from our project plant and Mayskoye concentrator.
to the portfolio or transforming current standalone mines portfolio by setting appropriate thresholds on head grades into new hubs.
and focusing on open-pit mines: only opting for underground 02 complete key cApeX pRojects development if this is justified by higher grades.
Greenfield exploration Investment in greenfield exploration with the aim Albazino, Amursk POX and Mayskoye were the key projects Read more on pages 22-45 of discovering high-grade quality assets for construction we concentrated on in 2012-2013.
These have now been of new standalone mines.
completed and are delivering a healthy contribution leveraging our hub-based system to production and EBITDA.
Near-mine exploration We have created centralised processing facilities to handle Investment in near-mine exploration with the aim of expanding 03 cApitAl Discipline: DeliveR supeRioR ores from different sources.
These enable us to achieve the Groups reserve base and creating opportunities for economies of scale by minimising processing and logistics production growth, either through grade improvement opeRAtinG pRofitAbility, fRee cAsH floW costs, as well as capital spending per ounce.
The hub system or expansion of existing processing facilities.
Assets targeted also allows us to bring into production medium-sized or even such expansion are Albazino, Omolon, Khakanja and Voro.
AnD DiviDenDs small-sized near-mine deposits that would be uneconomic to run as standalone operations.
Deliver superior operating profitability and strong free 05 mAintAin HiGH stAnDARDs of coRpoRAte cash flow by maintaining tight cost control, focusing on return Read more on pages 27-41 GoveRnAnce AnD sustAinAble Development on capital in investment decisions and maintaining safe debt levels.
Maintain high standards of corporate governance, strictly investing in exploration adhering to the principles of sustainable development Successful exploration provides us with a cost-effective in our interaction with all stakeholders in our operations, increase in our reserve base and, along with successful including communities, employees and government bodies.
acquisitions, is the key source of our long-term organic growth.
We are compliant with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code from June 2013.
The Group is also Read more on pages 8-9, 24-26, 46-47 a participant in the UN Global Compact, a recognised international standard for sustainable development.
maintaining exemplary governance We are committed to upholding good governance throughout our operations and in our interactions towards and on behalf of all our stakeholders.
Read more on pages 74-101 Surveying activity at Khakanja d p r y s m y g e s o x n t v e e o e i g m r t n n a i a r n n o i c l a p t e n x i e a M n i g n i t s e v n I
