Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. We have audited the financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. for the year ended 26 January 2013 set out on pages 65 to 109.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on pages 59 and 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: r the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 26 January 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: r the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: r the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and r the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: r the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: r the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and r information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 46 to 50 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: r adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or r the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or r certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or r we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or r a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the company.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. Continued Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: r the directors statement, set out on page 45, in relation to going concern: r the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 46 to 50 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and r certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Craig Anderson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 191 West George Street Glasgow G2 2LJ 21 March 2013 64 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013
