114 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT GROUP AND COMPANY Opinion on financial statements of Premier Oil plc.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial statements comprise the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the parent company statement of total recognised gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 25 in respect of the group financial statements and 1 to 13 in respect of the parent company financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going Concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the directors statement contained within the going concern section of the Financial review that the group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the groups ability to continue as a going concern: and we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Recoverability of intangible exploration Management have performed a review of their E&E assets to and evaluation E&E assets assess if there were any indicators of impairments for any of the In accordance with the relevant accounting standards, groups material field interests.
We assessed the outcome of this E&E costs are written off unless commercial reserves have review by participating in meetings with key operational and been established or the appraisal process is not completed.
finance staff to understand the current status and future This was considered a key risk due to the significant intention for each asset, confirming that all assets which remain judgements and estimates that are required to be capitalised are included in future budgets and are considered to assessed and the highly material nature of the related contain potentially commercial volumes of hydrocarbons and balances in the financial statements.
identifying any fields where the groups right to explore is either at, or close to, expiry.
Where an asset has been impaired we have obtained supporting evidence for the events that led to the impairment.
