116 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT GROUP AND COMPANY continued Our Assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 69.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined planning materiality for the group to be US$30 million, being 7.5 per cent of forecast pre-tax profit.
Pre-tax profit was normalised for the materiality calculation to exclude one off items that are audited separately and would, if included, significantly distort the materiality calculation year on year.
In order to ensure that we gain sufficient assurance and oversight of misstatements throughout the group, materiality for each of the reporting components has been set at between US$15 million and US$20 million, depending upon the relative size of the component.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of US$0.6 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our group audit scope focused primarily on the audit work at five key locations, being London, Aberdeen, Vietnam, Indonesia and Pakistan.
These locations were subject to a full scope audit, whilst a further two were subject to an audit of specified account balances, where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the groups operations at those locations.
These seven locations account for materially all of the groups net assets, groups revenue and groups profit before tax.
The group audit team is involved in the work of the component auditors that have been engaged in Vietnam, Indonesia and Pakistan at all stages of the audit process.
This includes a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor or senior members of the group audit team visit key locations and review the work performed on significant risks by the component auditors.
In the year visits were made to two of the three locations.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
