Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 115 Our Assessment of Risks of Material Misstatement continued Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Capitalisation and impairment of oil and gas properties Management have performed a review of the producing and within property, plant and equipment development asset portfolio for indicators of impairment.
Where These are considered key risks due to the significant indicators of impairment have been identified, management judgements and estimates that need to be made in have undertaken full impairment reviews, based on key assessing both whether costs initially qualify for capitalisation assumptions which include: and whether any impairments have arisen at year-end.
Commodity price: The risk of impairment is greater where there are potential Reserves production: impairment triggers such as reserves downgrades or upward revisions to future cost estimates, or where assets Discount rate: have been recently impaired.
Operating costs: and Capital costs.
We have assessed these assumptions by reference to publicly available information, third party information, our knowledge of the group and industry and also budgeted and forecast performance.
Where an impairment was identified, as in the case of the Balmoral area, we confirmed that an appropriate provision has been recorded.
Further details of this impairment are provided in note 9 to the financial statements.
We have also tested capitalised expenditure during the year on a sample basis to assess whether the related costs qualify for capitalisation under the relevant accounting standards.
Decommissioning provision We have assessed for appropriateness the key assumptions Provisions for decommissioning are a judgemental area underlying the decommissioning calculation through: as they include assumptions around estimated agreeing gross cost estimates to third party support or decommissioning costs, discount rates and the economic internal engineer estimates: life of a field, which in turn will depend on factors such as oil price and operating costs.
obtaining supporting evidence for any material revisions in cost estimates during the year: confirming the decommissioning dates are consistent with the groups latest internal economic models: comparing the discount rate to available market information: and testing the mechanical accuracy of managements decommissioning provision calculation.
Accounting for income taxes We worked with tax specialists in the relevant locations to This is considered a key risk due to the diverse geographical understand the tax legislation governing the groups operations nature of the group, the different tax legislation in place in each of the jurisdictions in which the group operated during in the jurisdictions in which the group operates and the the year: we obtained the groups taxation computations in judgements applied in the recognition of deferred tax respect of current and deferred tax and assessed the assets and provisions for potential tax exposures.
computations for compliance with local tax legislation and IAS 12 Income Taxes: and we evaluated judgmental tax exposures and provisions, assessing the position taken by management in respect of the probability and amount of potential exposures.
This included an assessment of the recoverability of the groups deferred tax assets, considering whether the supporting calculations are in accordance with enacted tax legislation and are consistent with the models used for the groups IAS 36 impairment tests.
