Some of the shares were sold to pay income tax and National Insurance contributions payable by Messrs S C Lockett, A R C Durrant and A G Lodge upon the accelerated vesting of the awards, but the amounts received from the sale were subject to claw back in the event of the participant leaving Premier other than as a good leaver.
In the case of Mr R A Allan, who was an expatriate and therefore not subject to UK tax, a percentage of the shares equal to the percentage tax rate that would have applied had he been subject to UK income tax was withheld.
These shares reverted to the Employee Benefit Trust and the company has paid any overseas duties payable by Mr Allan as a result of the vesting of his shares.
The amount paid was subject to clawback if Mr Allan had left Premier other than as a good leaver.
The remaining shares were held in a nominee account within the Employee Benefit Trust until the end of the original deferral period, and were forfeitable if the director had left other than as a good leaver.
There are no performance criteria for the Deferred Shares.
Matching Awards granted are the maximum award possible under the Matching Award scheme, subject to performance criteria based on TSR against a comparator group of approximately 35 listed companies in the oil and gas sector.
Full vesting requires upper decile performance.
Shares released from nominee account on 14 May 2013.
The mid-market closing price on 14 May 2013 was 393.3p.
See the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report for further details of these awards, including Premier performance against the performance targets.
The Committee determined in January 2014 that the 2011 Matching Awards will not vest.
For further details see page 93.
Share Options and Share Incentive Plan The executive directors may also participate, on the same terms as all other eligible employees, in a Share Incentive Plan SIP and a Savings related Share Option Scheme Save As You Earn SAYE scheme.
The mid-market closing price was 330.4p on the day of exercise 7 October 2013.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 105 Outstanding share awards under the annual bonus, LTIP and previous long-term incentive awards, and share option schemes continued Share Incentive Plan Shares held beneficially in this plan by the directors during the financial year were as follows: Total Total Total Partnership Matching Shares Dividend Partnership and Shares awarded in Shares Matching Shares purchased in 2013 at prices purchased Shares acquired Shares held 2013 at prices between 3.0610 in 2013 at a held on between on 1 January between 3.0610 and 3.8991, price of 31 December 1 January and 2013 and 3.8991 vesting from 2016 3.4781 2013 27 February 2014 S C Lockett 17,820 423 423 261 18,927 170 R A Allan 17,786 422 422 260 18,890 174 A R C Durrant 7,632 423 423 114 8,592 170 N Hawkings 7,632 423 423 114 8,592 170 A G Lodge 3,002 423 423 47 3,895 170 By order of the Board I J Hinkley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 February 2014 106 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Group financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing the parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
In preparing the group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 Presentation of Financial Statements requires that directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the companys and groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: the group financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board S C Lockett A R C Durrant Chief Executive Finance Director 26 February 2014 26 February 2014 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 107 ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information Premier Oil plc is a limited company incorporated in Scotland and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The address of the registered office is Premier Oil plc, 4th Floor, Saltire Court, 20 Castle Terrace, Edinburgh, EH1 2EN.
The principal activities of the company and its subsidiaries the group are oil and gas exploration and production in The Falkland Islands, Indonesia, Norway, Pakistan, the United Kingdom, Vietnam and Rest of the World.
These financial statements are presented in US dollars since that is the currency in which the majority of the groups transactions are denominated.
Adoption of new and revised standards In the current year the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted, neither of which has a material impact on the groups annual results.
IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The new standard also requires new disclosures see note 17 to assist users to understand the valuation techniques and inputs used to develop fair value measurements and the effect of these on profit or loss.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the European Union : IFRS 1 amended Government Loans IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities amended IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IAS 32 amended Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities IAS 36 amended Recoverable Amounts Disclosure for non Financial Assets The directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards and interpretations listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the group in future periods except IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which may impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments but for which the full impact of adoption has not yet been assessed.
Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for the revaluation of financial instruments and certain oil and gas properties at the transition date to IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Further information relating to the going concern assumption is provided in the Financial Review.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities controlled by the company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by other members of the group.
All significant inter-company transactions and balances between group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
108 Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments see below.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except that: deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits respectively: liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment: and assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that standard.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period see below, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Goodwill Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
If, after reassessment, the groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Premier Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 109 Interest in joint ventures A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control.
Where a group company undertakes its activities under joint venture arrangements directly, the groups shares of jointly controlled assets and any liabilities incurred jointly with other venturers are recognised in the financial statements of the relevant company and classified according to their nature.
Liabilities and expenses incurred directly in respect of interests in jointly controlled assets are accounted for on an accrual basis.
Income from the sale or use of the groups share of the output of jointly controlled assets, and its share of joint venture expenses, are recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transactions will flow to from the group and their amount can be measured reliably.
Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred to as jointly controlled entities.
The group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using proportionate consolidation the groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of jointly controlled entities are combined with the equivalent items in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
Where the group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the joint venture.
Sales revenue and other income Sales of petroleum production are recognised when goods are delivered or the title has passed to the customer.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Oil and gas assets The company applies the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation E&E costs, having regard to the requirements of IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources.
a Exploration and evaluation assets Under the successful efforts method of accounting, all licence acquisition, exploration and appraisal costs are initially capitalised in well, field or specific exploration cost centres as appropriate, pending determination.
Expenditure incurred during the various exploration and appraisal phases is then written off unless commercial reserves have been established or the determination process has not been completed.
Pre-licence costs Costs incurred prior to having obtained the legal rights to explore an area are expensed directly to the income statement as they are incurred.
Exploration and evaluation costs Costs of E&E are initially capitalised as E&E assets.
Payments to acquire the legal right to explore, costs of technical services and studies, seismic acquisition, exploratory drilling and testing are capitalised as intangible E&E assets.
Tangible assets used in E&E activities such as the groups vehicles, drilling rigs, seismic equipment and other property, plant and equipment used by the companys exploration function are classified as property, plant and equipment.
However, to the extent that such a tangible asset is consumed in developing an intangible E&E asset, the amount reflecting that consumption is recorded as part of the cost of the intangible asset.
Such intangible costs include directly attributable overhead, including the depreciation of property, plant and equipment utilised in E&E activities, together with the cost of other materials consumed during the exploration and evaluation phases.
E&E costs are not amortised prior to the conclusion of appraisal activities.
Treatment of E&E assets at conclusion of appraisal activities Intangible E&E assets related to each exploration licence prospect are carried forward, until the existence or otherwise of commercial reserves has been determined subject to certain limitations including review for indications of impairment.
If commercial reserves have been discovered, the carrying value, after any impairment loss, of the relevant E&E assets, is then reclassified as development and production assets.
If, however, commercial reserves have not been found, the capitalised costs are charged to expense after conclusion of appraisal activities.
