55 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under Company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company andofthe profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates which are reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent Company financial statements respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Report on Directors Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website, www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 36, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view ofthe assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties which it faces.
By order of the Board Mr S P Plant Company Secretary 23 July 2013
