95 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Further Statutory and Other Information Health and safety PZ Cussons aims to maintain a safe workplace at all locations in which it operates.
We continue to ensure that our business activities are undertaken in a responsible manner and in accordance with the relevant statutory legislation and that employees at all levels participate inthe development, promotion and maintenance of a safe and healthy working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
TheCompany employs health and safety specialists and, where appropriate, provides onsite medical facilities for employees.
The Company continues to monitor and increase standards of health and safety at work through risk assessment, safety audits, formal incident investigation and training.
Our investment in plant and equipment enables us to modernise designs and operate safer and more efficient processes.
Employment and staff development As an international group, and particularly bearing in mind our operations in developing countries, we focus resource on the employment and development of local staff with the intention of assisting both our operations in those countries and the local community.
Employees are involved at all levels of decisionmaking throughout the Group with effective communication via regular consultation groups and briefings.
Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in performance and over the past year employees of all grades have received training through a wide range of courses.
The employment policies of the Group embody the principles of equal opportunity, training and development and rewards appropriate tolocal markets which are tailored to meet the needs of its businesses and the areas in which they operate.
This includes procedures to support the Groups policy that disabled persons shall be considered for appropriate employment and subsequent training and career development.
The Company continues to share valuable experience and best practice within the Group through employee secondment.
Community and charity We support a range of charitable causes, both in the UK and overseas, mainly through a UK based shareholding trust and additional contributions are made through staff time and gifts in kind.
PZ Cussons continues to provide assistance and donations to significant globalfundraising initiatives and recognises its responsibility to the communities in which it operates.
We are committed to establishingand maintaining strong relationships with community groups, particularly in developing markets.
Auditor  LLP has signified its willingness to continue in office and a resolution for its appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors report of PZ Cussons Plc For the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, the report of the Directors of PZ Cussons Plc for the year ended 31 May 2013 comprises this page and the information contained in the Report of the Directors on pages 38 to 40.
Registered office Manchester Business Park 3500 Aviator Way Manchester M22 5TG Registered number Company registered number 19457 Registrars Computershare Investor Services Plc PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgewater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Company secretary S P Plant 96 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Notes PZCussons Plc Manchester Business Park 3500 Aviator Way Manchester M22 5TG 0161 435 1000
