Remuneration report continued Element Purpose Operation and performance measures Opportunity Changes for coming financial year Performance Share The objective of QinetiQs long-term PSP awards are contingent on meeting pre-determined performance Individual participants award levels are determined by the Committee annually.
No changes to policy for the coming Plan PSP Current incentive programmes for Executive criteria.
Awards are earned based on an equal weighting of relative Total financial year.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards with a maximum value of 200% Directors is to align their rewards Shareholder Return TSR performance and absolute underlying Earnings of base salary per annum.
However, the intention is to normally set the awards at 150%.
with returns to shareholders by a per Share EPS growth.
focus on increasing shareholder The underlying EPS performance criterion for the PSP awards begin to value over the medium to long term.
vest at 25% once the underlying EPS CAGR hits 3% rising on a linear scale The current Long Term Incentive until maximising at 100% for 10% CAGR.
Plan mechanism for Executive TSR performance is measured against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Directors is the PSP which is also excluding Investment Trusts.
30% of the TSR awards begin to vest once provided to other senior leaders.
performance reaches the median of the comparator group rising on a This replaced the Value Sharing linear basis until performance reaches the upper quartile.
Plan see below in July 2012 and Further detail of the thresholds for both measures can be found on page 56. better aligns to our current phase of resurrecting growth.
Deferred Annual No longer in use unvested awards For awards made prior to the year ended 31 March 2013, the matching Prior to the year ended 31 March 2013, Executive Directors had a mandatory deferral of This Plan is no longer in use, however, there Bonus Plan DAB from previous years element of the DAB begins to vest 25% once the underlying EPS CAGR 40% of any bonus earned and were permitted to voluntarily defer an additional 10% remain awards unvested.
Closed exceeds 7%, maximising at 100% match for 15% CAGR in underlying EPS.
of their bonus into QinetiQ shares up to a maximum of 50%.
Any deferred bonus will be matched up to a maximum of 100%.
Performance Share No longer in use unvested awards Awards are earned based on an equal weighting of relative Total Leo Quinn has outstanding awards under this plan based on his joining arrangements This Plan is no longer in use, however, there Plan PSP Closed from previous years Shareholder Return TSR performance and absolute underlying Earnings and details of the vesting which will occur in June 2013 can be found on page 56. remain awards unvested.
The underlying EPS performance criterion for the PSP awards begin to vest at 25% once the underlying EPS CAGR hits 7% rising on a linear scale until maximising at 100% for 15% CAGR.
TSR performance is measured against the constituents of a bespoke sector related peer group of companies.
30% of the TSR awards begin to vest once performance reaches the median of the comparator group rising on a linear basis until our performance reaches the upper quartile.
Value Sharing Plan The VSP was approved by Under the VSP, additional shareholder value created is measured in two The VSP provided executives with a pre-defined number of shares for each 1m of This Plan is no longer in use, however, there VSP Closed shareholders in July 2010.
It is a ways: Additional Shareholder Value created.
long-term incentive plan which was Total shareholder return TSR QinetiQs TSR out-performance Previous awards issued to Executive Directors are due to vest between July 2013 and designed to reinforce QinetiQs of the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
Participants May 2015. strategy of focusing on shareholder will be entitled to a vesting of shares under the TSR Element only if More details of the VSP can be found on page 57, together with the vestings of awards value creation.
the Committee is also satisfied that this is justified by the underlying made in July 2010.
This plan is no longer in use financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
unvested awards from previous years.
Underlying Profit Before Tax PBT determined by PBT growth above the cost of equity of 8.5% a year, adjusted by the dividend yield.
VSP awards granted in May 2011 were weighted equally between the two performance indicators: 50% Total Shareholder Return TSR and 50% underlying Profit Before Tax PBT.
For awards made in July 2010, the weighting was 70% PBT and 30% TSR.
Any awards earned will vest 50% after three years and 50% after four years.
Pension and other To ensure Executive Directors total N A Benefits include a pension or contribution in lieu, car allowance, health insurance, life No changes to policy for the coming benefits remuneration remains attractive assurance and membership of the Groups employee Share Incentive Plan which is open financial year.
The Groups policy is to offer all UK employees membership in the QinetiQ Pension Scheme, as described in note 29 to the financial statements.
Executives whose benefits are likely to exceed the Lifetime Allowance may opt out of the QinetiQ Pension Plan.
In such cases, the individual will be paid a supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
Personal The Board believes that a In November 2011 the Committee reviewed the executive shareholding N A No changes to policy for the coming shareholding policy meaningful way to align Executives policy and increased the length of time allowed to accumulate the financial year.
interests with those of shareholders required shareholding from four to five years to align with market norms.
is for the Executives to build up The CEO and CFO are required to hold shares in QinetiQ with a value and retain a personal holding equivalent to one times their base salary in QinetiQ shares.
54QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013
