Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 29.
Post-retirement benefits The Company has implemented IAS 19 revised Employee benefits in the year ended 31 March 2013, electing to adopt this standard early.
Comparative figures have been restated to show the effect of this early adoption.
Refer to note 1 to the financial statements.
Defined contribution plans In the UK the Group operates the Group Personal Pension Plan GPP for the majority of its UK employees.
This is a defined contribution scheme managed by Zurich.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group and employees pay fixed contributions to a third party financial provider.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Defined benefit pension plans A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.
Typically, defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and final pensionable earnings.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated bi-annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income.
In the UK the Group operates the QinetiQ Pension Scheme the Scheme for a significant proportion of its UK employees.
This provides future service pension benefits to transferring Civil Service employees.
All Group employees who were members, or eligible to be members, of the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme or the UKAEA principal Non-Industrial Superannuation Scheme were invited to join the DB section of the Scheme from 1 July 2001, together with all new employees who were previously members of schemes which are part of the Public Sector Transfer Club.
The Scheme is a final salary plan, which provides benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on the members length of service and their salary in the final years leading up to retirement.
In the Scheme, pensions in payment are generally updated in line with the consumer price index.
The benefit payments are made from trustee-administered funds.
Plan assets held in trusts are governed by UK regulations as is the nature of the relationship between the Group and the Trustees and their composition.
Responsibility for the governance of the Scheme including investment decisions and contribution schedules lies jointly with the Company and the Board of Trustees.
The Board of Trustees must be composed of representatives of the Company and plan participants in accordance with the Schemes regulations.
The expected employer cash contribution to the Scheme for the year ending 31 March 2014 is 20.6m 2013: 40.8m.
Triennial funding valuation The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Scheme was undertaken as at 30 June 2011 and resulted in an actuarially assessed deficit of 74.7m.
On the basis of this full valuation, the Trustees of the Scheme and the Company agreed the employer contribution rate of 12.7% from 30 June 2011, past service deficit recovery payments of 10.5m a year for a six-year period from 1 April 2012 and an immediate one-off contribution of 40m into the Scheme.
As part of a package of measures to provide stability to the Scheme, the Company has also contributed an asset in the form of an interest through a Scottish limited partnership see below in a future income stream of approximately 2.5m per annum, increasing in line with the Consumer Price Index, for 20 years secured on certain properties owned by the Group.
Finally, the Company and Trustees also agreed, in the year to 31 March 2012, the key provision that the Trustees will select the Consumer Price Index rather than the Retail Price Index as the relevant index for the increase of pensions in payment in respect of service before 1 June 2008 and for the revaluation of preserved benefits.
Prior to this the Retail Price Index had always been used as the relevant index.
This change resulted in a one-off past service credit of 141.4m in 2012.
The next scheduled triennial valuation will be performed as at 30 June 2014.
106 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
