Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2013 Basis of preparation 1.
Nature of operations T he consolidated financial statements of Randgold T he company and its subsidiaries together with its joint ventures the group carry out exploration and gold mining Resources Limited and its subsidiaries and joint ventures activities.
Currently there are three operating mines in have been prepared in accordance with International Mali, West Africa: the Morila gold mine equity accounted Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations joint venture, which started production in October 2000, collectively IFRS issued by the International Accounting the Loulo gold mine subsidiary, which commenced Standards Board IASB as adopted by the European Union production in November 2005 and the Gounkoto mine and in accordance with Article 105 of the Companies subsidiary, which began production in June 2011.
The consolidated financial statements group also operates a mine in Cte dIvoire, Tongon also comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB, as is required subsidiary, which started production in December as a result of our listing on NASDAQ in the US.
The group also holds an effective interest of 45% effective for 2013 under IFRS as issued by the IASB and in the Kibali gold mine equity accounted joint venture will become effective in the European Union from the in the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC.
Production 2014 financial year, however, early adoption is permitted.
commenced at Kibali in October 2013.
The group has a The group has early adopted IFRS 11 from 1 January portfolio of exploration projects in West and Central Africa.
2013 in accordance with the rules on application set out by the IASB ensuring no material differences existed in T he interests of the group in its operating mines are held through Socit des Mines fide Morila SA Morila which the two IFRS bases used.
The new standard has been owns the Morila mine, Socit des Mines fide Loulo SA applied retrospectively.
The consolidated financial Somilo which owns the Loulo mine, Socit des Mines statements have been prepared under the historical cost fide Tongon SA Tongon which owns the Tongon mine, convention, as modified by the revaluation of availableSocit des Mines fide Gounkoto SA Gounkoto which owns for-sale financial assets, and various financial assets.
the Gounkoto mine and Kibali Goldmines Kibali SPRL, which owns the Kibali mine.
Randgold holds an effective T he preparation of financial statements in conformity with 40% interest in Morila, following the sale to AngloGold IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
Ashanti Limited on 3 July 2000 of one-half of Randgolds It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the subsidiary, Morila Limited.
Management of Morila Limited, process of applying the companys accounting policies.
The the 80% shareholder of Morila SA, is effected through a areas involving a high degree of judgement or complexity, joint venture committee, with Randgold and AngloGold or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant Ashanti each appointing one-half of the members of the to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in committee.
Randgold holds an effective 80% interest in n ote 3.
After reviewing the groups and the companys Somilo and Gounkoto.
The remaining 20% interest is held budget for the next financial year, and other longer term by the State of Mali.
Randgold holds an effective 89% interest in Tongon, 10% is held by the State of Cte dIvoire plans, the directors are satisfied, at the time of approving while the remaining 1% is held by a local Ivorian company.
the financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the Randgold is the operator of the Morila, Loulo, Gounkoto, going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Randgold acquired its effective The directors have no reason to believe that the group and interest in Kibali following the acquisition by the company the company will not be a going concern in the foreseeable of a joint venture interest in Moto Goldmines Limited future based on forecasts and available cash resources Moto in 2009, in conjunction with AngloGold Ashanti.
The viability of the company and the Socit Minire fide Kilo-Moto SARL SOKIMO holds the group is supported by the financial statements.
Refer to remaining 10% in Kibali.
The group has various exploration page 136 of the audit committee report for further detail.
programmes ranging from substantial to early stage in the DRC, Mali, Senegal and Cte dIvoire.
New standards and interpretations applied T he IASB has issued the following new standards, 2.
Significant accounting policies amendments to published standards and interpretations T he principal accounting policies applied in the preparation to existing standards with effective dates on or prior to of these consolidated and company financial statements 1 January 2013 which have been adopted by the group for are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 185 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued IFRS as issued IFRS as issued by IASB by EU Effective period commencing on or after Impact on group IAS 1 Amendment presentation of items of other 1 July 2012 1 July 2012 No material impact, comprehensive income disclosures amended IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 1 January 2013 1 January 2014 No material impact IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2013 1 January 2014 Yes, early adopted IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities 1 January 2013 1 January 2014 No material impact, disclosures amended IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013 1 January 2013 No material impact IFRS 7 Disclosures offsetting financial assets and No material impact, financial liabilities 1 January 2013 1 January 2013 disclosures amended IAS 27 Amendment separate financial statements 1 January 2013 1 January 2014 No material impact IAS 28 Amendment investments in associates and joint ventures 1 January 2013 1 January 2014 No material impact IFRS 1 Amendment - government loans 1 January 2013 1 January 2013 No material impact IAS 19 Amendment employee benefits 1 January 2013 1 January 2013 No material impact Annual improvements to IFRSs 20092011 cycle 1 January 2013 1 January 2013 No material impact IFRS 11 Joint arrangements consolidated, including 5% non-controlling interest.
The impact on the primary statements is shown on pages 187 The group changed its accounting policy on joint ventures to 189 of this annual report.
from 1 January 2013 following the introduction of IFRS 11 Joint arrangements which applies to the current T he adjustments include presenting the primary financial period.
The new standard is applicable under IFRS statements as if we have always been equity accounting as issued by the IASB from 1 January 2013, while it has our share in our joint ventures and associates from the been early adopted for the purposes of the preparation start of the earliest period presented 1 January 2011 of these financial statements under IFRS as issued by with key changes summarised as follows: the European Union.
The joint venture agreements and O n the statement of comprehensive income, the structures for Kibali and Morila, together with the asset key changes relate to accounting for our attributable leasing joint ventures KAS 1 Limited and RAL 1 Limited share in the profits and losses of the equity accounted provide the group with interests in the net assets of those joint ventures being shown in a single line item share companies, rather than interests in underlying assets of profits of equity accounted joint ventures which and obligations.
Accordingly, under IFRS 11, the groups represents the post-tax profits and losses of the joint share of joint ventures have been accounted for using the ventures: equity method rather than proportionately consolidated, Other income now includes 100% of management from the beginning of the earliest period presented being fees charged to equity accounted joint ventures with 1 January 2011 owing to requirements of the groups US the groups share of the cost included in share of listing.
Comparatives have been restated accordingly profits of equity accounted joint ventures: using IFRS 11 transition rules.
The groups share of the equity accounted joint ventures income and expenditure has been removed The groups share of its joint ventures has been from the individual line items: disclosed as a single line item as total investments Changes on the statement of financial position relate in joint ventures on the consolidated statement of to the groups share of its equity accounted joint financial position, measured at the aggregate of the ventures net assets being accounted for in a single carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities that had line total investments in joint ventures: previously been proportionately consolidated shown The groups share of the equity accounted joint on each line of the statement of financial position at ventures assets and liabilities have been removed 1 January 2011, excluding minorities, together with the from the individual line items: and groups subsequent share of profits and losses of the Changes on the cash flow statement include joint ventures, its share of other comprehensive income disclosing dividends received from equity accounted and expense, additional investment and loans less joint joint ventures in a separate line under operating venture dividends.
The groups share of profits and other activities, as well as disclosing additional invested comprehensive income and expense of the joint ventures funds in separate lines under investing activities.
are accounted for in the statement of comprehensive Other loans advanced and repaid where applicable income as share of profits of equity accounted joint are recognised within investing activities.
ventures and share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted joint ventures.
In the consolidated T he effects of the change in accounting policies on the cash flow statement, the groups cash flows from the joint consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated ventures have been disclosed separately.
comprehensive income and the consolidated cash flows of the group at 31 December 2012 are summarised on T he nature of the adjustments involved equity pages 187 to 189 of this annual report.
Refer to note 10 accounting for our share in Kibali gold mine at an effective 45%, whereas previously it was 50% proportionately for further details of joint ventures.
186 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Consolidated statement of comprehensive income impact of accounting policy change 12 months 12 months ended ended 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2012 as per new as previously accounting US$000 reported policy Adjustment Revenues Gold sales on spot 1 317 830 1 183 127 134 703 Total revenues 1 317 830 1 183 127 134 703 Other income 10 755 12 555 1 800 Total income 1 328 585 1 195 682 132 903 Cost and expenses Mine production costs 460 322 438 331 21 991 Movement in production inventory and ore stockpiles 31 970 43 716 11 746 Depreciation and amortisation 131 741 117 991 13 750 Other mining and processing costs 84 182 75 770 8 412 Mining and processing costs 644 275 588 376 55 899 Transport and refining costs 2 988 2 718 270 Royalties 67 802 59 710 8 092 Exploration and corporate expenditure 40 641 39 033 1 608 Other expenses 5 437 - 5 437 Total costs 761 143 689 837 71 306 Finance income 2 050 2 048 2 Finance costs 1 200 984 216 Finance income - net 850 1 064 214 Share of profits of equity accounted joint ventures - 40 927 40 927 Profit before income tax 568 292 547 836 20 456 Income tax expense 57 510 37 054 20 456 Profit for the period 510 782 510 782 - Other comprehensive expense Gain loss on available-for-sale financial assets 3 101 2 919 182 Share of equity accounted joint ventures other comprehensive expense - 182 182 Total other comprehensive expense 3 101 3 101 - Total comprehensive income 507 681 507 681 - Profit attributable to: Owners of the parent 431 801 431 801 - Non-controlling interests 78 981 78 981 - 510 782 510 782 - Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the parent 428 700 428 700 - Non-controlling interests 78 981 79 981 - 507 681 507 681 Basic earnings per share US$ 4.70 4.70 - Diluted earnings per share US$ 4.65 4.65 - Average shares in issue 000 91 911 91 911 - Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 187 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Consolidated statement of financial position impact of accounting policy change At 31 Dec 2012 At as per new 31 Dec 2012 accounting as previously US$000 reported policy Adjustment Assets Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1 742 148 1 294 865 447 283 Cost 2 111 437 1 592 781 518 656 Accumulated depreciation and amortisations 369 289 297 916 71 373 Deferred tax 2 678 1 970 708 Investment in equity accounted joint ventures - 816 500 816 500 Other investments in joint ventures - 43 947 43 947 Total investments in joint ventures - 860 447 860 447 Trade and other receivables 7 969 - 7 969 Mineral properties 406 000 - 406 000 Total non-current assets 2 158 795 2 157 282 1 513 Current assets Inventories and ore stockpiles 292 299 272 609 19 690 Trade and other receivables 285 286 202 129 83 157 Cash and cash equivalents 387 288 373 868 13 420 Available-for-sale financial assets 3 476 3 003 473 Total current assets 968 349 851 609 116 740 Total assets 3 127 144 3 008 891 118 253 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 2 619 014 2 619 014 - Non-controlling interests 166 108 158 673 7 435 Total equity 2 785 122 2 777 687 7 435 Non-current liabilities Loans from minority shareholders 3 249 3 249 - Deferred tax 29 355 29 355 - Long term borrowings 13 296 - 13 296 Provision for rehabilitation 60 041 52 575 7 466 Total non-current liabilities 105 941 85 179 20 762 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 215 761 133 441 82 320 Current tax payable 18 842 12 584 6 258 Short term portion of long term borrowing 1 478 - 1 478 Total current liabilities 236 081 146 025 90 056 Total equity and liabilities 3 127 144 3 008 891 118 253 188 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Consolidated cash flow statement impact of accounting policy change 12 months ended 12 months 31 Dec 2012 ended as per new 31 Dec 2012 accounting as previously US$000 reported policy Adjustment Profit after tax 510 782 510 782 - Income tax expense 57 510 37 054 20 456 Profit before income tax 568 292 547 836 20 456 Share of profits of equity accounted joint ventures - 40 927 40 927 Adjustment for non-cash items 153 362 140 008 13 354 Effects of change in operating working capital items 192 123 183 832 8 291 Receivables 177 439 120 737 56 702 Inventories and ore stockpiles 73 349 81 602 8 253 Trade and other payables 58 665 18 507 40 158 Dividends received from equity accounted joint ventures - 72 326 72 326 Income tax paid 35 818 11 182 24 636 Net cash generated from operating activities 493 713 524 229 30 516 Additions to property, plant and equipment 562 280 272 207 290 073 Decrease in available-for-sale insurance assets 920 920 - Funds invested in equity accounted joint ventures - 298 283 298 283 Loans repaid by equity accounted joint ventures - 3 472 3 472 Net cash used by investing activities 561 360 566 098 4 738 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 14 077 14 077 - Increase decrease in long term loans 14 774 - 14 774 Dividends paid to companys shareholders 36 737 36 737 - Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 24 823 24 823 - Net cash used by financing activities 32 709 47 483 14 774 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 100 356 89 352 11 004 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 487 644 463 220 24 424 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 387 288 373 868 13 420 T he group has provided the relevant disclosures in IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities The new accounting standard is applicable under IFRS notes 1 and 10 associated with the assessment of joint venture relationships and relationships with as issued by the IASB from 1 January 2013, while it has been early adopted for the purposes of the preparation investees.
of these financial statements under IFRS as issued by the European Union.
IFRS 12 includes the disclosure IFRS 7 Disclosure - offsetting financial assets and requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, financial liabilities The amendment to IFRS 7 introduces disclosures in including subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and unconsolidated structured entities.
respect of the effect of offsetting associated with the groups recognised financial assets and recognised The standard requires the disclosure of information that financial liabilities.
Refer to notes 7 and 17 for details of helps users to assess the nature and financial effects the offsetting.
of the groups relationship with other entities, including assisting users to: understand the judgements and Standards effective in future periods assumptions made by the group when deciding how Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations to classify its involvement with its subsidiaries and joint to existing standards have been published that are ventures: understand the interest that non-controlling relevant to the groups activities and are mandatory for interests have in consolidated entities: and assess the the groups accounting periods beginning after 1 January nature of the risks associated with interests in other 2013 or later periods and which the group has decided entities.
These appear overleaf: Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 189 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Effective period commencing on or after IAS 32 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 1 January 2014 IFRS 9 Financial instruments No effective date Not yet adopted by the European Union.
The group is currently assessing the impact of these have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities standards on the financial statements.
The amendment relating to the arrangement.
The rights to the assets and the obligations for the liabilities are recognised in the to offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities consolidated financial statements.
In a joint venture, on provides that rights to offset financial assets and financial the other hand, the parties that have joint control of the liabilities must continue in normal business, default or arrangement the joint venturers have a right to the net insolvency events.
This right is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity Consolidation method.
Joint control is considered to exist when there The consolidated financial information includes the is contractual joint control: control being the power to financial statements of the company, its subsidiaries and govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so the companys equity accounted joint ventures using as to obtain benefits from the activities and the ability to uniform accounting policies for like transactions and use its power over the investee to affect the amounts of other events in similar circumstances.
the groups returns by the joint venturers.
Subsidiaries T he group changed its accounting policy on joint ventures Subsidiaries are entities over which the group has the from 1 January 2013 following the introduction of IFRS 11 power to govern the financial and operating policies Joint arrangements which applies to the current period as of an entity so as to obtain benefits from the activities set out on page 186 of this annual report.
and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect the amounts of the groups returns and generally Dividends received are classified as operating cash flows accompanying an interest of more than one-half of the in the consolidated cash flow statement.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They Acquisitions are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Except for initial recognition under IFRS 11 transition The purchase method of accounting is used to account rules, further investments in additional joint ventures for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost are initially recognised at cost.
The cost of an acquisition of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the assets is measured at the fair value of the assets given, equity given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or instruments issued or liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable assumed at the date of exchange.
Acquisition costs are to the acquisition.
Goodwill on associated companies expensed.
Identifiable assets acquired including mineral property interests and liabilities and contingent liabilities and joint ventures represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of the associate or joint venture over the assumed in a business combination are measured initially groups share of the fair value of the identifiable net at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of assets of the associate or joint venture and is included in the extent of any non-controlling interest.
The excess of the carrying amount of the investments.
the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded Equity method of accounting as goodwill or other identifiable intangible assets.
If In applying the equity method of accounting, the groups the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the share of its associated companies and joint ventures postnet assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is acquisition profits or losses are recognised in profit or loss recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive and its share of post-acquisition other comprehensive income.
income is recognised in other comprehensive income.
These post-acquisition movements and distributions Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised received from the associated and joint venture gains on transactions between group companies are companies are adjusted against the carrying amount of eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the investments.
When the groups share of losses in an the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of associated or joint venture company equals or exceeds the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries its interest in the associated or joint venture company, have been changed where necessary to ensure including any other unsecured non-current receivables, consistency with the policies adopted by the group.
the group does not recognise further losses, unless it has obligations to make or has made payments on behalf of J oint ventures the associated or joint venture company.
Unrealised gains IFRS 11 sets out new rules for accounting for joint on transactions between the group and its associated arrangements.
Under these new rules, a distinction is and joint venture companies are eliminated to the extent made between joint operations and joint ventures.
A joint of the groups interest in the associated and joint venture operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that companies.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless have joint control of the arrangement the joint operators the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of 190 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources the asset transferred.
Trading receivables and payables income and expenses for each statement of with joint ventures are classified within trade and other comprehensive income are translated at average receivables and payables.
The accounting policies of exchange rates unless this average is not a associated and joint venture companies have been reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which accounting policies adopted by the group.
case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures all resulting exchange differences are recognised Investment in subsidiaries and joint ventures are stated in other comprehensive income.
There were no at cost less any provisions for impairment in the financial exchange differences on translation of subsidiaries statements of the company.
Dividends are accounted for recognised in 2012 or 2013. when the company becomes entitled to receive them.
On the disposal of an investment, the difference between Property, plant and equipment the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is Undeveloped properties charged or credited to the statement of comprehensive Undeveloped properties upon which the group has not income.
performed sufficient exploration work to determine whether significant mineralisation exists are carried at Segmental reporting original acquisition cost.
Where the directors consider An operating segment is a group of assets and operations that there is little likelihood of the properties being engaged in performing mining or advanced exploration exploited, or the value of the exploitable rights has that are subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other segments.
Other parts of the business diminished below cost, an impairment is recorded.
are aggregated and treated as part of a corporate and exploration segment.
The group provides segmental Long-lived assets and mine development costs information using the same categories of information L ong-lived assets including development costs and the groups chief operating decision maker utilises.
The mine plant facilities such as processing plants, tailings groups chief operating decision maker is considered by facilities, raw water dams and power stations are initially management to be the board of directors.
Development of orebodies includes the development costs of shaft systems and waste The group has only one business segment, that of rock removal that allows access to reserves that are gold mining.
Segment analysis is based on individual economically recoverable in the future.
mining operations and exploration projects that have a significant amount of capitalised expenditure or other C osts associated with underground development are fixed assets.
capitalised when the works provide access to the ore body, whereas costs associated with ore extraction from Foreign currency translation operating ore body sections are treated as operating Functional and presentation currency costs.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities are measured using the currency of Where relevant the estimated cost of dismantling the the primary economic environment in which the entity asset and remediating the site is included in the cost of operates the functional currency.
The consolidated property, plant and equipment, subsequently they are financial statements are presented in US dollars, which measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and is also the functional currency of the company and its significant subsidiaries.
Transactions and balances Development costs consist primarily of direct expenditure Foreign currency transactions are translated into the incurred to establish or expand productive capacity and relevant functional currency using the exchange rates are capitalised until commercial levels of production are prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Foreign achieved refer to commercial production, after which exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement the costs are amortised.
of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities Costs are capitalised provided that the project is deemed denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the to be commercially, technically and economically viable.
statement of comprehensive income in other income and Such viability is deemed to be achieved when the group is other expenses.
confident that the project will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks and is sufficiently certain Group companies of economic production.
Costs which are necessarily The results and financial position of material group incurred while commissioning new assets, in the period entities none of which has the currency of a hyperbefore they are capable of operating in the manner inflationary economy that have a functional currency intended by management, are capitalised under 'Longdifferent from the presentational currency are translated lived assets and mine development costs'.
Development into the presentation currency as follows: costs incurred after the commencement of production assets and liabilities for each statement of financial are capitalised to the extent they are expected to give rise position presented are translated at the closing rate to a future economic benefit.
at the date of that statement of financial position: Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 191 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Commercial production Short-lived assets The group assesses the stage of each mine construction Short-lived assets including non-mining assets are shown project to determine when a mine moves into the at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
The criteria used to assess the start date are determined by the unique nature of each Depreciation and amortisation mine construction project and include factors such as Long-lived assets include mining properties, such as the complexity of a plant and its location.
The group freehold land, metallurgical plant, tailings and raw water considers various relevant criteria to assess when the dams, power plant and mine infrastructure, as well as mine is substantially complete and ready for its intended mine development costs and are depreciated on a units use and moves into the production stage.
Some of the of production basis.
criteria would include but are not limited to the following: t he level of capital expenditure compared to Depreciation and amortisation are charged over the construction cost estimates: life of the mine or over the remaining useful life of completion of a reasonable period of testing of the the asset, if shorter based on estimated ore tonnes mine plant and equipment: contained in proven and probable reserves to be the ability to produce gold in saleable form: and extracted using the relevant asset, to reduce the cost to t he ability to sustain commercial levels of gold estimated residual values.
As an example, underground production.
assets are depreciated over underground proven and probable reserves and tonnes milled from those ore W hen a mine construction project moves into the bodies.
No future capital expenditure is included in the production stage, the capitalisation of certain mine depreciable value.
Proven and probable ore reserves construction costs ceases and subsequent costs are reflect estimated quantities of economically recoverable either regarded as inventory or expensed, except reserves, which can be recovered in the future from for capitalisable costs related to subsequent mining known mineral deposits.
Only proven and probable asset additions or improvements, open cast stripping, reserves are used in the tonnes milled units of production underground mine development or ore reserve depreciation calculation.
Any changes to the expected development.
life of the mine or asset are applied prospectively in calculating depreciation and amortisation charges.
Development expenditure approval Short-lived assets which include motor vehicles, office Development activities commence after project equipment and computer equipment are depreciated sanctioning by the appropriate level of management.
over estimated useful lives of between two to five years Judgement is applied by management in determining but limited to the remaining mine life.
Residual values and when a project has reached a stage at which economically useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at recoverable reserves exist such that development each statement of financial position date.
Changes to the may be sanctioned.
In exercising this judgement, estimated residual values or useful lives are accounted management is required to make certain estimates for prospectively.
and assumptions similar to those described below for capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure.
Impairment Any such estimates and assumptions may change as new T he carrying amount of the property, plant and information becomes available.
If, after having started equipment and investments in joint ventures of the the development activity, a judgement is made that a group is compared to the recoverable amount of the development asset is impaired, the appropriate amount assets whenever events or changes in circumstances will be written off to the income statement.
indicate that the net book value may not be recoverable.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and Stripping costs the fair value less cost to sell.
In assessing the value in I n surface mining operations, the group may find it use, the expected future cash flows from the assets is necessary to remove waste materials overburden to determined by applying a discount rate to the anticipated gain access to mineral ore deposits.
This waste removal risk adjusted future cash flows.
The discount rate used activity is known as stripping.
There are two benefits is the groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted accruing to the group from stripping activity: usable ore for asset specific factors when applicable.
Only proven that can be used to produce inventory and improved and probable reserves are used in the calculations and access to further quantities of material that will be mined the models use the approved mine plans and exclude in future periods as stripping costs within property, plant capital expenditure which enhance the assets or and equipment.
Stripping costs are measured internally extracted ore tonnes outside of such approved mine and capitalised until the point where the overburden plans.
An impairment is recognised in the statement of has been removed and access to the ore commenses.
comprehensive income to the extent that the carrying Economic ore extracted during this period and amount exceeds the assets recoverable amount.
The subsequently is accounted for as inventory.
The group revised carrying amounts are amortised in line with componentises each of its mines into geographically group accounting policies.
distinct ore body sections to which the stripping activities being undertaken within that component are allocated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed The group depreciates the deferred costs capitalised as if the recoverable amount increases as a result of a stripping assets on a unit of production method, with reversal of the conditions that originally resulted in the reference the ex-pit ore production from the relevant ore impairment.
This reversal is recognised in the statement body section.
192 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources of comprehensive income and is limited to the carrying Interest borrowing costs amount that would have been determined, net of Interest is recognised on a time proportion basis, depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised in taking into account the principal outstanding and the effective rate over the period to maturity.
Assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows cashcost is expensed as incurred except to the extent that it relates directly to the construction of property, plant and generating units for purposes of assessing impairment.
equipment during the time that is required to complete The estimates of future discounted cash flows are subject to risks and uncertainties including the future gold price.
and prepare the asset for its intended use, when it is capitalised as part of property, plant and equipment.
It is therefore reasonably possible that changes could Borrowing cost is capitalised as part of the cost of the occur which may affect the recoverability of property, asset where it is probable that the asset will result in plant and equipment, and investments in joint ventures.
economic benefit and where the borrowing cost can be measured reliably.
No interest or borrowing costs have Inventories been capitalised during the year.
Inventories include ore stockpiles, gold in process and dor, and supplies and spares and are stated at the lower Royalties of cost or net realisable value.
The cost of ore stockpiles Royalty arrangements based on mineral production are and gold produced is determined principally by the in place at each operating mine.
The primary type of weighted average cost method using related production royalty is a net smelter return royalty.
Cost of stockpiles include costs incurred up to the royalty the group pays the host country's governement an point of stockpiling, such as mining and grade control amount calculated as the royalty percentage multiplied costs, but exclude future costs of production.
by the value of gold production at market gold prices less selling costs.
Royalty expense is recorded when revenue Costs of gold inventories include all costs incurred up from the sale of gold is recognised.
until production of an ounce of gold such as milling costs, mining costs and directly attributable mine Financial instruments general and administration costs but exclude transport F inancial instruments are measured as set out below.
costs, refining costs and royalties.
Net realisable value Financial instruments carried on the statement of is determined with reference to estimated contained financial position include cash and cash equivalents, gold and market gold prices.
Ore extracted is allocated trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, to seperate stockpiles based on esitmated grade, with available for sale financial assets, loans to and from grades below defined cut-off levels treated as waste and subsidiaries and joint ventures and loans to minorities.
Morila used a selective mining process and thus is currently processing low grade stockpiles which Cash and cash equivalents represents mineralised waste no accounting carrying Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the statement of value.
Full grade ore stockpile is above 1.4g t and marginal financial position at cost.
For the purpose of the cash flow ore is defined as ore below 1.4g t but greater than 1.0g t. statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on At Loulo, full grade open pit stockpile material is above hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short term 1.2g t for Loulo 3 and Gara, while Yalea is above 0.7g t. highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months No Yalea or Gara underground material is on stockpile or less at the date of purchase and bank overdrafts.
In currently since all ore mined is fed.
At Gounkoto, the full the statement of financial position, bank overdrafts are grade ore stockpile is above 1.67g t and marginal ore included in borrowings in current liabilities.
Deposits above 1.26g t. Ore is classified into full grade ore above which do not meet these criteria are classified separately 1.71g t, marginal ore above 1g t and mineralised waste as restricted cash.
between 0.7g t and 1.0g t. At Tongon, full grade ore stockpile is above 1.4g t and marginal ore above 0.9g t. Trade and other receivables At Kibali full grade ore stockpile is above 0.64g t and no Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at marginal ore is stockpiled while mining oxide material.
There is a rebuttable presumption that the transaction price is fair value unless this could be refuted The processing of ore in stockpiles occurs in accordance by reference to market indicators.
Subsequently, trade with the life of mine processing plan that has been and other receivables are measured at amortised cost optimised based on the known mineral reserves, current using the effective interest method, less provision plant capacity and mine design.
Ore tonnes contained for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade in the stockpile which exceeds the annual tonnes to be receivables is established when there is objective milled as per the mine plan in the following year, are evidence that the group will not be able to collect classified as non-current in the statement of financial all amounts due according to the original terms of position.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy Stores and materials consist of consumable stores and or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency are valued at weighted average cost after appropriate in payments are considered indicators that the trade impairment of redundant and slow moving items.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount Consumable stock for which the group has substantially and the present value of estimated future cash flows, all the risks and rewards of ownership are brought onto discounted at the effective interest rate.
The amount the statement of financial position as current assets.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 193 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued of the provision is recognised in mining and processing events where it is probable that an outflow of resources costs in the statement of comprehensive income.
embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of Available-for-sale financial assets the obligation can be made.
Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives Current tax that are either designated in this category or not Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the classified in any of the other categories.
Available-for-sale taxable income for the year calculated using rates financial assets are designated on acquisition.
They are and laws that have been enacted or substantively normally included in current assets and are carried at fair enacted by the statement of financial position date.
Where a decline in the fair value of an availableincludes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or for-sale financial asset constitutes objective evidence recoverable in respect of previous periods.
of impairment, the amount of the loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income within other Deferred taxation expenses, other movements in fair value are recognised Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, in other reserves within equity.
on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in Borrowings including loans from subsidiaries, joint the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the ventures and minorities temporary difference arises from initial recognition of an Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of asset or liability in a transaction other than a business transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently combination that at the time of the transaction affects stated at amortised cost: any difference between the neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption recognised.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive and laws that have been enacted or substantively income over the period of the borrowings using the enacted by the statement of financial position date and effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as are expected to apply when the temporary differences current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional reverses.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the right to defer settlement of the liability for at least extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be 12 months after the statement of financial position date.
available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary Trade and other payables differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and Accounts payable and other short term monetary joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of liabilities, are initially recognised at fair value and the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it subsequently carried at amortised cost using the is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse effective interest method.
Rehabilitation costs Accounting for Gounkoto non-controlling interest The net present value of estimated future rehabilitation priority dividends costs is provided for in the financial statements and Under the statutory requirements of the 1999 Malian capitalised within property, plant and equipment on Mining Code the Code, the State of Mali is entitled initial recognition.
Rehabilitation will generally occur on to advanced payment of dividends.
The advanced closure or after closure of a mine.
Initial recognition is payment entitlement is calculated based on 10% of at the time of the disturbance occurring and thereafter profits after certain deductions.
The advanced dividends as and when additional disturbances take place.
The paid are deducted from the ordinary dividends that the estimates are reviewed annually to take into account the government receives under its 20% equity interest in effects of inflation and changes in estimated risk adjusted Gounkoto.
Given this is a statutory obligation rather rehabilitation works cost and are discounted using rates than a contractual obligation, a liability is recognised at that reflect the time value of money.
Annual increases each balance sheet date based on 10% of the accrued in the provision due to the unwinding of the discount profit measure.
The liability is extinguished upon the are recognised in the statement of comprehensive subsequent payment of the advanced dividend.
An income as a finance cost.
The present value of additional Other receivables asset is recorded as the advanced disturbances and changes in the estimate of the dividend automatically entitles Gounkoto to reduce future rehabilitation liability are recorded to mining assets cash flows paid to the State of Mali and creates economic against an increase decrease in the rehabilitation benefit.
The carrying value of the asset is reviewed for provision.
The rehabilitation asset is amortised as noted impairment.
Ordinary dividends are recorded as a previously.
Rehabilitation projects undertaken, included reduction in non-controlling interest once declared.
in the estimates, are charged to the provision as incurred.
Environmental liabilities, other than rehabilitation costs, Contingent liabilities which relate to liabilities arising from specific events, are The group discloses contingent liabilities when possible expensed when they are known, probable and may be obligations exist as a result of past events, unless the reasonably estimated.
possible outflows of economic benefits as a result of the past event of economic benefits as a result of the Provisions past event are considered remote.
By their nature, contingencies will often only be resolved when one or P rovisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past more future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment 194 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources of such contingencies inherently involves the exercise excluding the impact of any service and non-market of significant judgement and estimates of the outcome performance vesting conditions for example, of future events.
In certain circumstances, to provide profitability, reserve growth targets and remaining an transparency, the group voluntarily elects to disclose employee of the entity over a specified time period.
information regarding claims for which any outflow of economic benefit is considered remote.
Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions about the number of options that are Share capital expected to become exercisable or the number of shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental that the employee will ultimately receive.
This estimate is costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares revised at each statement of financial position date and or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the the difference is charged or credited to the statement proceeds.
of comprehensive income, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Market performance conditions Employee benefits are included in the fair value assumptions on the grant Pension obligations date with no subsequent adjustment.
The proceeds The group has defined contribution plans.
A defined received on exercise of the options net of any directly contribution plan is a pension plan under which the attributable transaction costs are credited to equity.
group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
When the options are exercised, the company issues The group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay new shares.
The proceeds received net of any directly further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient attributable transaction costs are credited to share assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to capital nominal value and share premium when the employee service in the current and prior periods.
Transfers are made between defined contribution plans, the group pays contributions other reserves and share premium when options are to publicly or privately administered provident funds on a exercised and shares vest for the cumulative share mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
The group has based expense.
no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as Leases employee benefit expenses when they are due.
Prepaid Determining whether an arrangement is, or contains, contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments and requires an assessment of whether fulfilment of the is available.
arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the arrangement conveys a right Termination benefits to use the asset.
Leases of plant and equipment where Termination benefits are payable when employment the group assumes a significant portion of risks and is terminated before the normal retirement date, or rewards of ownership are classified as a finance lease.
whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy Finance leases are capitalised at the estimated present in exchange for these benefits.
The group recognises value of the underlying lease payments.
Each lease termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed payment is allocated between the liability and the finance to either: terminating the employment of current charges to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance employees according to a detailed formal plan without outstanding.
The interest portion of the finance payment possibility of withdrawal: or providing termination is charged to the statement of comprehensive income benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage over the lease period.
The plant and equipment acquired voluntary redundancy.
Benefits falling due more than under the finance lease are depreciated over the useful 12 months after statement of financial position date are lives of the assets, or over the lease term if shorter.
Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and Profit-sharing and bonus plans rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are The group recognises a liability and an expense for classified as operating leases.
The group recognises a provision where operating leases are charged to the statement of contractually obliged or where there is a past practice comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the that has created a constructive obligation.
Share-based payments Revenue recognition The fair value of the employee services received in The company enters into contracts for the sale of gold.
exchange for the grant of options, restricted shares Revenue arising from gold sales under these contracts is or participation in the groups Co-Investment Plan is recognised when the price is determinable, the product recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be has been delivered in accordance with the terms of the expensed over the vesting period is determined by contract, the significant risks and rewards of ownership reference to the fair value of the options or shares awards have been transferred to the customer and collection determined at the grant date: of the sales price is reasonably assured.
These criteria awards including any market performance conditions are met when the gold leaves the mines smelt houses.
for example, the correlation used between the As sales from gold contracts are subject to customer Euromoney Global Gold Index formerly the HSBC survey adjustment, sales are initially recorded on a Global Gold Index and the company TSR : and provisional basis using the groups best estimate of the Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 195 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued contained metal.
Subsequent adjustments are recorded This information when combined with existing knowledge in revenue to take into account final assay and weight of the mineral property already being mined or developed certificates from the refinery, if different from the initial allow the directors to conclude that more likely than not the group will obtain future economic benefit from the certificates.
The differences between the estimated expenditures.
Costs relating to property acquisitions are and actual contained gold have historically not been capitalised within development costs.
Dividend distribution Exploration and evaluation costs Dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is The group expenses all exploration and evaluation recognised as a liability in the groups financial statements expenditures until the directors conclude that a future in the period in which the dividends are approved by the economic benefit is more likely than not of being realised, board of directors and declared to shareholders.
While the criteria for concluding that an expenditure should be capitalised is always probable, Earnings per share the information that the directors use to make that E arnings per share are computed by dividing net income determination depends on the level of exploration.
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure on brownfield sites, being those adjacent to mineral deposits which are Diluted earnings per share already being mined or developed, is expensed as incurred Diluted earnings per share are presented when the until the directors are able to demonstrate that future inclusion of potential ordinary shares has a dilutive effect economic benefits are probable through the completion on earnings per share.
of a prefeasibility study, after which the expenditure is capitalised as a mine development cost.
Key accounting estimates and judgements study consists of a comprehensive study of the viability of a mineral project that has advanced to a stage where Some of the accounting policies require the application of significant judgement by management in selecting the mining method, in the case of underground mining, the appropriate assumptions for calculating financial or the pit configuration, in the case of an open pit, has estimates or determining the appropriate accounting been established, and which, if an effective method of treatment for a transaction.
mineral processing has been determined, includes a financial analysis based on reasonable assumptions of By their nature, these judgements are subject to an technical, engineering, operating economic factors and inherent degree of uncertainty and are based on the evaluation of other relevant factors.
The prefeasibility historical experience, terms of existing contracts, study, when combined with existing knowledge of the managements view on trends in the gold mining industry mineral property that is adjacent to mineral deposits and information from outside sources.
The estimates that are already being mined or developed, allow the and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing directors to conclude that it is more likely than not that a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets the group will obtain future economic benefit from the and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed expenditures.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure on greenfield TVA sites, being those where the group does not have Included in trade and other receivables are taxation any mineral deposits which are already being mined debtor receivables of US$125.7 million US$76.7 million or developed, is expensed until such time as the current and US$49.0 million non-current, consisting directors have sufficient information to determine that primarily of recoverable value added tax TVA balances future economic benefits are probable, after which owing by the fiscal authorities in Mali.
A further the expenditure is capitalised as a mine development US$36.4 million at 45% attributable share is included cost.
The information required by directors is typically in the underlying statement of financial position of the a final feasibility study however a prefeasibility study Kibali joint venture.
In Mali the TVA owing is being offset may be deemed to be sufficient where the additional against other tax owing to the State, in accordance with work required to prepare a final feasibility study is the legal right of offset under the relevant mining not significant or the work done at prefeasibility level conventions.
clearly demonstrates an economic asset.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure relating to extensions of Profit forecasts for the mine, using approved budgets mineral deposits which are already being mined or and mine plans, supports recovery of the balance developed, including expenditure on the definition of through such offsetting by 2015, although the recovery mineralisation of such mineral deposits, is capitalised and timing is subject to estimates of factors such as gold as a mine development cost following the completion price and production.
We are also continuing to engage of an economic evaluation equivalent to a prefeasibility with authorities in Mali to accelerate the repayment of study.
This economic evaluation is distinguished from a the outstanding TVA balances.
The group continues to prefeasibility study in that some of the information that seek recovery of TVA in the DRC, in line with its mining would normally be determined in a prefeasibility study is convention.
Judgement exists in assessing recovery of these receivables.
instead obtained from the existing mine or development.
196 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources such scenarios, the directors remain satisfied that no Corporation tax claims The group is in receipt of claims for various taxes from the impairment is appropriate.
The models are considered State of Mali totalling US$123.1 million, in respect of the suitably conservative with proven and probable reserves Loulo SA, Gounkoto SA and Morila SA 40% joint venture determined based on US$1 000 oz gold price as shown interest, together with Kankou Moussa SARL, its Malian below.
Having taken professional advice, the group considers the claims to be wholly without Capitalisation and depreciation merit or foundation and is strongly defending its position, There are several methods for calculating depreciation, including following the appropriate legal process for ie the straight line method, the production method using disputes within Mali.
Loulo, Gounkoto and Morila have ounces produced and the production method using legally binding mining conventions which guarantee fiscal tonnes milled.
The directors believe that the tonnes stability, govern the taxes applicable to the companies milled method is the best indication of plant and and allow for international arbitration in the event a infrastructure usage.
Refer to note 2 for the depreciation dispute cannot be resolved in the country.
Estimates are required regarding the allocation of continues to engage with the Malian authorities at assets to relevant proven and probable reserves.
the highest level to resolve this issue.
During the third quarter, Loulo submitted a request for arbitration at The group applies judgement in allocating costs between the International Court of the Settlement of Investment operating and capital items in respect of underground Disputes against the State of Mali in relation to certain of mining.
Costs are capitalised when the activity provides the disputed tax claims.
The appointment of arbitrators access to future ore bodies and are expensed as has been finalised and the first procedural hearing took operating costs when the works involve extraction of ore place during February 2014.
While we consider the claims from operational sections of the ore body.
to be wholly without merit, given the ongoing disputes and arbitration, judgement was applied in assessing any Additionally, judgement was required when determining potential liabilities to be remote.
Accordingly no provision the date at which commercial production was achieved has been made for the material claims.
and depreciation commenced at Kibali.
Similarly, given ongoing mine construction and development, judgement Carrying values of property, plant and equipment was required in allocating costs between operating and joint venture investments costs, ore stockpiles and ongoing capital works.
Costs The group assesses at each reporting period whether have been allocated based on the underlying activity and there is any indication that these assets may be economic benefits.
If such indication exists, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the asset.
The recoverable Gold price assumptions for reserves amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value determination in use being the net present value of expected future The following gold prices were used in the mineral cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit and fair reserves optimisation calculations: value less cost to sell.
The estimates used for impairment US$ oz 2013 2012 reviews are based on detailed approved mine plans Morila 1 000 1 000 and operating plans.
Future cash flows are based on Loulo: open pit 1 000 1 000 estimates of: Loulo: underground 1 000 1 000 the quantities of the proven and probable reserves Tongon 1 000 1 000 being reserves for which there is a high degree of confidence of economic extraction: Kibali 1 000 1 000 future production levels: Massawa 1 000 1 000 future commodity prices: Gounkoto 1 000 1 000 future cash cost of production and capital C hanges in the gold price used could result in changes expenditure associated with extraction of the proven in the mineral reserve optimisation calculations and probable reserves in the approved mine plan: which impact Life of Mine plans.
Mine modelling is a future gold prices a gold price curve from a complex process and hence it is not feasible to perform leading merchant bank was used for the impairment sensitivities on gold price assumptions in respect of ore calculations starting at a US$1 250 oz gold price: and reserves.
Determination of ore reserves The impairment tests did not indicate impairment and head room existed at each mine.
Given the significance of The group estimates its ore reserves and mineral gold prices and the longevity of mine plans, the directors resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the Australasian consider gold price and discount rate sensitivities to be relevant.
A reduction in forward gold prices in excess of Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral 13% would give rise to material impairment.
The discount Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2004 the J ORC code.
Reserves determined in this way are used rate would need to increase by at least 54% to 10.18% to give rise to impairment at the mine with the greatest in the calculation of depreciation and amortisation, as discount rate sensitivity.
However, having considered well as the assessment of the carrying value of mining Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 197 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued assets and timing of mine closure obligations.
There process are accumulated as stockpiles, gold in process and product inventories.
Net realisable value tests are are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating performed at least annually and represent the estimated ore reserves and assumptions that are valid at the future sales value of the product based on contained time of estimation may change significantly when new gold and metals prices, less estimated costs to complete information becomes available.
Changes in the forecast production and bring the product to sale.
prices of commodities, exchange rates, production costs or recovery rates may change the economic status of Stockpile quantities are measured by estimating the reserves and may, ultimately, result in the reserves number of tonnes added and removed from the stockpile, being restated.
For further information refer to annual the number of contained gold ounces based on assay resources and reserves declaration on page 75 of this data, and the estimated recovery percentage based on annual report.
Stockpile tonnages are verified by periodic surveys.
Future rehabilitation obligations T he net present value of current rehabilitation estimates Post production open cast mine stripping have been discounted to their present value at 2.5% The group capitalises costs, associated with stripping per annum 2012: 2.5% being the prevailing risk free activity to expose the ore body within mining assets.
Expenditure is expected to be incurred group subsequently depreciates the asset as that section at the end of the respective mine lives.
The Morila of the ore body is mined.
This requires judgement over rehabilitation estimate at 31 December 2013, which is the eligible costs and the relevant section of the orebody held in the underlying statement of financial position of for depreciation.
the equity accounted joint venture, includes the impact of the approved tailings storage facility retreatment Exploration and evaluation expenditure programme, where the retreated tailings and nonThe group has to apply judgement in determining viable tailings will be deposited in the pit.
For further whether exploration and evaluation expenditure should information, including the carrying amounts of the be capitalised or expensed.
Management exercises this liabilities, refer to note 14.
A 1% change in the discount judgement based on the results of economic evaluations, rate on the groups rehabilitation estimates would result prefeasibility or feasibility studies.
Costs are capitalised in an impact of US$7.1 million 2012: US$6.6 million on where those studies conclude that more likely than not the provision for environmental rehabilitation, and an the group will obtain sufficient future economic benefit impact of US$0.5 million 2012: US$0.4 million on the from the expenditures.
Share-based payments Stockpiles, gold in process and product inventories R efer to note 15 for the key assumptions used in Costs that are incurred in or benefit the productive determining the value of share-based payments.
Income taxes Current taxation 76 935 31 039 Deferred taxation 11 221 6 015 76 714 37 054 The tax on the groups profit before tax differs from the theoretical amount that would arise using the statutory tax rate applicable to the groups operations.
Profit before tax 402 461 547 836 Tax calculated at effective tax rate of 30% 120 738 164 351 Reconciling items: Income taxed at 0% 54 309 67 632 Expenses deductible at 0% 35 634 62 133 Mali tax holiday permanent differences 10 950 73 658 Cte dIvoire tax holiday permanent differences 20 362 36 849 Net capital allowances not deductible 5 803 1 344 Deferred stripping costs adjustment 5 815 5 469 Share of equity accounted joint venture profits 7 444 20 456 Other permanent differences 13 419 2 352 Taxation charge 76 714 37 054 198 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 4.
Income taxes continued The company is subject to an income tax rate in Jersey of 0%.
Loulo benefited from a five-year tax holiday in Mali until the tax exoneration period expired on 7 November 2010.
Tongon benefits from a five-year tax holiday in Cte dIvoire from the commencement of production in December 2010.
Gounkoto benefitted from a two year tax holiday until the exoneration expired on 1 June 2013.
It has a potential further tax holiday, up to a maximum of five years in total, in the event of further capital investment, such as an underground mine.
The benefit of the tax holidays to the group was to increase its net profit by US$31.3 million 2012: US$110.5 million.
Accordingly, had the group not benefited from the tax holidays in Mali and Cte dIvoire, earnings per share would have been reduced by US$0.34 and US$1.20 for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively.
Under Malian tax law, income tax is based on the greater of 30% of taxable income or 0.75% of gross revenue.
Under Ivorian tax law, income tax is based on the greater of 25% of taxable income or 0.5% of gross revenue.
The Loulo, Gounkoto and Tongon operations have no assessable capital expenditure carry forwards for assessable tax losses, at 31 December 2013 and 2012 respectively, for deduction against future mining income.
The group's share as profits from equity accounted joint ventures is stated net of US$7.4 million 2012: US$20.5 million of current and deferred tax charges primarily in respect of Morila and Kibali.
Share capital and premium The total authorised number of ordinary shares is 120 million 2012: 120 million of US 5 cents 2012: US 5 cents.
All issued shares are fully paid.
Refer to the statement of changes in equity on pages 182 and 183 of this annual report for more detail on the annual movement of the number of ordinary shares, share capital and share premium, including the movement arising from the issue of restricted shares and exercise of share options.
Group Income Per share numerator Shares amount US$000 denominator US$ 6.
Earnings and dividends per share For the year ended 31 December 2013 Basic earnings per share Shares outstanding at 1 January 2013 92 061 153 Weighted number of shares issued 152 358 Income available to shareholders 278 382 92 213 511 3.02 Effect of dilutive securities Share options 268 615 Restricted shares 863 983 Diluted earnings per share 278 382 93 346 109 2.98 For the year ended 31 December 2012 Basic earnings per share Shares outstanding at 1 January 2012 91 717 070 Weighted number of shares issued 194 474 Income available to shareholders 431 801 91 911 544 4.70 Effect of dilutive securities Share options 396 180 Restricted shares 517 202 Diluted earnings per share 431 801 92 824 926 4.65 Refer to note 15 for details on share options and share awards issued to employees.
US$46.1 million US$0.50 per share was paid as dividends in 2013 2012: US$36.7 million US$0.40 per share.
On 31 January 2014, the board of directors proposed an annual dividend of US$0.50 per share which, if approved, will result in an aggregate dividend payment of US$46.1 million and is expected to be paid in May 2014.
The proposed dividend in respect of 2013 is subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting to be held on 6 May 2014.
An optional scrip dividend has been proposed whereby shareholders can elect to receive new ordinary shares in the company.
601 084 restricted share awards were also antidilutive at 31 December 2013 2012: 463 441.
The total number of potentially issuable shares at 31 December 2013 was 1 680 652 2012: 1 271 842.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 199 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group Company 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 Note 2013 Restated 2013 2012 7.
Trade and other receivables 43 797 Trade 20 458 - - Advances to contractors 17 782 14 394 - - Taxation debtors 7.1 131 029 91 719 - - Prepayments and other receivables 54 843 27 009 2 216 3 779 Gounkoto advance dividend 7.2 10 965 25 210 - - Total 235 077 202 129 2 216 3 779 Less: current portion 186 054 202 129 2 216 3 779 Long term portion 7.1 49 023 - - - 7.1 The taxation debtors primarily relate to indirect taxes owing to the group by the State of Mali, including TVA balances at Loulo of US$115.6 million 2012: US$71.9 million and Gounkoto of US$10.1 million 2012: US$10.3 million.
The taxation debtors further includes TVA balances at Tongon of US$4.2 million 2012: US$5.2 million, as well as refundable duties of US$1.1 million at Loulo 2012: US$4.3 million.
Non-current receivables consist of TVA balances at Loulo expected to be recovered through offsets of TVA with future taxes payable in accordance with the legally binding mining convention after one year.
7.2 Refer to note 2 for details of the Gounkoto dividend.
The classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The carrying values are considered to approximate fair values.
The credit quality of receivables that are not past due or impaired is considered high.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The group does not hold any collateral as security although it has the legally binding right to offset TVA balances with other taxation payable in Mali, and exercises this right.
Refer to note 17 for further information on the concentration of credit risk.
The terms of payment of trade receivables is less than seven days, advances to contractors 30 days and taxation debtors is six months.
Inventories and ore stockpiles Consumable stores 132 490 132 845 Stockpiles 173 658 121 981 Gold in process 16 277 17 783 Total inventories and ore stockpiles 322 425 272 609 Less: current portion 180 415 272 609 Long term portion 142 010 - All inventory and ore stockpiles are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Non-current ore stockpiles reflect ore tonnes not planned to be processed within the next 12 months.
200 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Group Company 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 Restated 2013 2012 9.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment Mine properties, mine development costs and mine plant facilities and equipment cost At the beginning of year 1 592 781 1 309 382 17 051 14 146 Additions 293 273 283 399 8 172 2 905 1 886 054 1 592 781 25 223 17 051 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation At beginning of year 297 916 179 925 67 - Charge for the year 130 638 117 991 683 67 428 554 297 916 750 67 Net book value 1 457 500 1 294 865 24 473 16 984 Long-lived assets Included in property, plant and equipment are long-lived assets which are amortised on a units of production basis as detailed in note 2 and comprise the metallurgical plants, tailings and raw water dams, power plants and mine infrastructure.
The net book value of these assets was US$1 436.3 million at 31 December 2013 2012: US$1 257.9 million.
Short-lived assets Included in property, plant and equipment are short-lived assets which are amortised over their useful lives and are comprised of motor vehicles and other equipment.
The net book value of these assets was US$8.1 million at 31 December 2013 2012: US$4.4 million.
Undeveloped property Included in property, plant and equipment are undeveloped property costs of US$2.2 million 2012: US$2.3 million.
Post production stripping Property, plant and equipment includes capitalised stripping costs, related to the production phase of opencast mining.
The net book value at 31 December 2013 was US$10.9 million 2012: US$30.3 million.
The figures in the company column mainly relate to the costs which have been capitalised on the Massawa project.
Group 31 Dec 31 Dec 2013 2012 The remaining maximum estimated useful lives in respect of proven and probable reserves for each mine included above is as follows: Loulo 15 years 15 years Gounkoto 12 years 14 years Tongon 7 years 9 years Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 201 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Company 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 2012 10.
Investments and loans in subsidiaries and joint ventures Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 1 Investment in Socit des Mines fide Tongon SA 12 000 12 000 Investment in Randgold Resources Mali SARL 2 2 2 Investment in Kibali Jersey Ltd 1 227 606 811 212 Investment in Isiro Jersey Ltd 20 - Total investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures 1 239 628 823 214 Loans to subsidiaries and joint ventures Loan Randgold Resources Mali SARL 15 058 14 713 1 Loan Randgold Resources Somilo Ltd 541 117 457 067 Loan Randgold Resources UK Ltd 2 832 2 159 1 Loan Socit des Mines fide Tongon SA 299 8 165 2 Loan Kibali Goldmines SPRL 959 1 994 2 96 Loan Kibali 2 Jersey Ltd 120 3 43 947 Loan RAL 1 Ltd 52 459 5 830 Loan Randgold Resources Secretaries Ltd 2 695 1 1 359 Loan Socit des Mines fide Gounkoto SA 849 1 2 313 Loan Randgold Resources Gounkoto Ltd 899 1 4 Loan Mining Investments Jersey Ltd 2 417 147 531 1 Loan Socit des Mines fide Loulo SA 3 083 11 552 2 Loan Kibali Jersey Ltd - 4 593 Loan KGL Isiro SPRL 141 - Loan Isiro Jersey Ltd 705 - 1 Loan Randgold Resources Cte d Ivoire Limited 2 777 - Total loans to subsidiaries and joint ventures 626 410 696 319 Loans from subsidiaries and joint ventures 2 Loan Kibali Jersey Ltd 266 - Loan Seven Bridges Trading 14 Pty Ltd 1 581 1 473 Total loans from subsidiaries and joint ventures 1 847 1 473 Total investments and loans in subsidiaries and joint ventures 1 864 191 1 518 060 1 Randgold owns 80% of Socit des Mines fide Loulo SA and Socit des Mines fide Gounkoto SA through the intermediary holding companies Randgold Resources Somilo Ltd and Randgold Resources Gounkoto Ltd respectively, with the State of Mali owning 20%.
Randgold owns 89% of Socit des Mines fide Tongon SA through the intermediary holding company Randgold Resources Cte dIvoire Limited, with the State of Cote dIvoire and another outside shareholder owning 10% and 1% respectively.
Randgold has funded these investments by means of shareholder loans including through Mining Investments Jersey Ltd, and therefore controls 100% of the cash flows from these mines until the shareholder loans are repaid.
These subsidiaries include material non-controlling interests.
Details of the nature of the operations is provided in note 1, details of the Gounkoto dividend on page 182 of this annual report and note 2, with summarised financial information provided in note 16.
The cumulative non-controlling interest in Socit des Mines fide Loulo SA is US$81.4 million 2012: US$67.4 million with its non-controlling interest share of profit of US$14.0 million, Societe des Mines fide Gounkoto SA is US$57.0 million 2012: US$58.1 million with its non-controlling interest share of profit of US$26.1 million and Socit des Mines fide Tongon SA is US$41.8 million 2012: US$34.5 million with its non-controlling interest share of profit of US$7.3 million.
2 Randgold and AngloGold Ashanti Limited are the joint shareholders of Kibali Jersey Limited group which in turn owns an effective 90% interest in Kibali Goldmines SPRL, giving an effective 45% interest in Kibali Goldmines SPRL.
3 Randgold and DTP Terassement are the joint shareholders of RAL 1 Limited.
4 Included in Mining Investments Jersey Ltd is an amount of US$110.6 million 2012: US$219.1 million owed by Socit des Mines fide Tongon SA in respect of shareholder loans.
5 Formerly called Randgold Resources Jersey Ltd.
The group changed its accounting policy on joint ventures from 1 January 2013 following the introduction of IFRS 11 Joint arrangements which applies to the current year.
The joint venture agreements and structures for Kibali and Morila, together with the asset leasing joint ventures KAS 1 Limited and RAL 1 Limited provide the group with interests in the net assets of those companies, rather than interests in underlying assets and obligations.
Accordingly, under IFRS 11, the groups share of joint ventures have been accounted for using the equity method rather than proportionately consolidated, from the beginning of the earliest period presented.
The following tables represent the groups share of the assets and liabilities of the respective joint venture which are included in the consolidated balance sheet and statement of comprehensive income within the total investments in joint ventures, share of profits of equity accounted joint ventures and share of equity accounted joint ventures' other comprehensive expenses.
Investments and loans in subsidiaries and joint ventures continued A summarised breakdown of the aggregates assets and liabilities of the group's share of joint ventures which have been aggregated into the single line 'Investments in joint ventures' balance at 1 January 2012 were as follows: US$000 Group Mineral properties 406 000 Property, plant and equipment 167 723 Cash and cash equivalents 24 778 Inventories 27 943 Trade and other receivables 12 362 Trade and other payables 41 589 597 217 Investment in joint ventures The movements in total investments in joint ventures are as follows: Group 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 2012 Beginning of year 816 500 549 798 Investments in equity accounted joint ventures Other investments in joint venture 43 947 47 419 Total investments in joint ventures 860 447 597 217 Funds invested in equity accounted joint ventures 424 905 298 283 Loans repaid by equity accounted joint ventures - 3 472 Share of profits of equity accounted joint ventures 54 257 40 927 Dividends received 18 974 72 326 Share of other comprehensive expenses of joint ventures 400 182 End of year Investments in equity accounted joint ventures 1 267 776 816 500 52 459 43 947 Other investments in joint ventures Total investments in joint ventures 1 320 235 860 447 Kibali Jersey Limited Set out below are the summarised financial information for Kibali Jersey Limited which is accounted for using the equity method amounts stated at 100% before intercompany eliminations.
Group 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 2012 Summarised statement of financial position Current Cash and cash equivalents 4 681 11 913 Other current assets excluding cash 257 886 82 495 Total current assets 262 567 94 408 Financial liabilities excluding trade payables 5 600 17 876 Other current liabilities including trade payables 91 247 49 703 Total current liabilities 96 847 67 579 Non-current Assets 1 834 382 1 080 117 Financial liabilities 53 430 53 388 Other liabilities 8 210 4 652 Total non-current liabilities 61 640 58 040 Net assets 1 938 462 1 048 906 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 203 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Investments and loans in subsidiaries and joint ventures continued Kibali Jersey Limited continued Group 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 2012 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Revenue 109 229 - Depreciation and amortisation 14 863 2 223 Interest income 3 966 1 448 Interest expense 1 252 14 Profit loss before tax 52 828 3 756 Income tax 4 739 - Post-tax profit loss 57 567 3 756 Other comprehensive expense - loss on available for sale asset 799 364 Total comprehensive income expense 56 768 4 120 Dividends received from joint venture - - The segmental report in note 16 presents information based on the group's effective 45% interest in the underlying Kibali gold mine as reported internally.
As such, that differs to a 50% interest in the Kibali Jersey Limited group.
Group 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 2012 Reconciliation of the group's summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the group's interest in the Kibali joint venture Opening net assets 1 January 1 048 906 456 460 Profit loss for the period 57 567 3 756 Other comprehensive expense 799 364 Dividends received - - Funding advanced 832 788 596 566 Closing net assets 1 938 462 1 048 906 Interest in joint venture at 50% 969 231 524 453 Mineral property at acquisition 292 954 292 954 Adjustment to reflect attributable interest 4 042 6 195 Carrying value 1 258 143 811 212 The group's effective interest in the underlying Kibali Goldmines SPRL is 45%.
The group holds a 50% joint venture interest in Kibali Jersey Limited with AngloGold Ashanti.
Joint control is provided through shareholdings and the joint venture agreement.
Kibali Jersey Limited holds a 90% interest in Kibali Goldmines SPRL thereby giving the group an effective 45% in that mine.
Refer to note 1 for details.
Investments and loans in subsidiaries and joint ventures continued Morila SA Set out below is the summarised financial information for Morila SA which is accounted for using the equity method amounts stated at 100% before intercompany eliminations.
Group 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 2012 Summarised statement of financial position Current Cash and cash equivalents 3 338 22 613 Other current assets excluding cash 95 027 71 897 Total current assets 98 365 94 510 Financial liabilities excluding trade payables - - Other current liabilities incuding trade payables 94 992 79 015 Total current liabilities 94 992 79 015 Non-current Assets 31 345 10 430 Financial liabilities - - Other liabilities 10 635 12 705 Total non-current liabilities 10 635 12 705 Net assets 24 083 13 220 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Revenue 199 674 336 756 Depreciation and amortisation 10 328 15 333 Interest income 3 5 Interest expense 543 540 Profit before tax 79 803 155 525 Income tax 23 940 51 140 Post-tax profit 55 863 104 385 Other comprehensive income - - Total comprehensive income 55 863 104 385 Dividends received from joint venture 45 000 180 000 Group 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 2012 Reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the group's interest in the Morila joint venture Summarised financial information Opening net assets 1 January 13 220 88 835 Profit for the period 55 863 104 385 Other comprehensive income - - Dividends received 45 000 180 000 Funding advanced - - Closing net assets 24 083 13 220 Interest in joint venture at 40% 9 633 5 288 Carrying value 9 633 5 288 Refer to note 1 for the nature of operations, country of incorporation and the ownership interest in Morila SA.
Joint control exists through the joint venture agreement with AngloGold Ashanti.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 205 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Investments and loans in subsidiaries and joint ventures continued RAL 1 Limited Set out below is the summarised financial information for RAL 1 Limited which is accounted for using the equity method amounts stated at 100% before intercompany eliminations.
Group 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 2012 Summarised statement of financial position Current Cash and cash equivalents 2 179 2 413 Other current assets excluding cash 9 026 3 429 Total current assets 11 205 5 842 Financial liabilities excluding trade payables - - Other current liabilities including trade payables 10 219 1 760 Total current liabilities 10 219 1 760 Non-current Assets 107 384 83 320 Financial liabilities 107 951 86 502 Other liabilities - - Total non-current liabilities 107 951 86 502 Net assets 419 900 Summarised statement of comprehensive income Revenue 25 166 21 913 Depreciation and amortisation 16 952 14 838 Interest income 6 10 Interest expense 4 713 4 481 Profit before tax 1 462 845 Income tax - - Post-tax profit 1 462 845 Other comprehensive income - - Total comprehensive income 1 462 845 Dividends received from joint venture 1 943 650 Reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the group's interest in the RAL 1 joint venture Opening net assets 1 January 900 705 Profit for the period 1 462 845 Other comprehensive income - - Dividends received 1 943 650 Funding advanced - - Closing net assets 419 900 Interest in joint venture at 50.1% 210 451 Funding classified as long term debt by joint venture recorded in 'other investments in joint ventures' 52 249 43 496 Carrying value 52 459 43 947 RAL 1 Limited is an asset leasing joint venture in which the group has a 50.1% interest with DTP Terrassement being the joint venture partner.
The joint venture operates in Mali and Cte d'Ivoire and is incorporated in Jersey.
Note that the KAS 1 Limited asset leasing joint venture in which the group has an effective 25.01% interest is included within the Kibali joint venture as Kibali Jersey Limited is the joint venture partner with DTP Terrassment.
Refer to note 19 for details of joint venture capital commitments.
206 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Group 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 US$000 Note 2013 Restated 11.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is calculated on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 30% in respect of the Malian operations and 25% in respect of the Ivorian operations.
The movement on deferred taxation is as follows: 27 385 21 370 At the beginning of the year 221 6 015 Statement of comprehensive income credit charge 4 At the end of the year 27 164 27 385 Deferred taxation assets and liabilities comprise the following: 25 174 20 256 Decelerated tax depreciation 3 284 9 099 Deferred stripping 28 458 29 355 Deferred taxation liability 1 294 1 970 Accelerated tax depreciation Deferred taxation asset 1 294 1 970 27 164 27 385 Net deferred tax liability T emporary differences which are expected to be realised during the Tongon and Gounkoto tax holidays are recognised at 0%.
There is no deferred tax on other comprehensive income items.
There are no unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of undistributed profits.
Available for sale financial assets Beginning of year 3 003 6 843 3 003 6 843 Disposals - 920 - 920 Fair value movement recognised in other comprehensive income 1 173 2 919 1 173 2 919 Exchange differences 1 1 - 1 At 31 December 1 831 3 003 1 830 3 003 Group Company 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 Note 2013 Restated 2013 2012 13.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 207 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 US$000 2013 Restated 14.
Provision for environmental rehabilitation Opening balance 52 575 34 624 Unwinding of discount 1 315 996 Change in estimates 4 713 16 955 At 31 December 49 177 52 575 As at 31 December 2013, US$27.5 million of the provision relates to Loulo 31 December 2012: US$29.6 million.
US$16.2 million 2012: US$16.0 million of the provision relates to Tongon, while US$5.5 million relates to Gounkoto 2012: US$6.9 million.
The provisions for rehabilitation costs include estimates for the effect of inflation and changes in estimates and have been discounted to their present value at 2.5% 2012: 2.5% per annum, being an estimate equivalent to the risk free rate determined with reference to US government bonds with maturity dates comparable to the estimated rehabilitation of the mines.
Limited environmental rehabilitation regulations currently exist in Mali and Cte dIvoire to govern the mines, so the directors have based the provisions for environmental rehabilitation on standards set by the World Bank, which require an environmental management plan, an annual environmental report, a closure plan, an up-to-date register of plans of the facility, preservation of public safety on closure, carrying out rehabilitation works and ensuring sufficient funds exist forthe closure works.
However, it is reasonably possible that the groups estimate of its ultimate rehabilitation liabilities could change as a result of changes in regulations or cost estimates.
The group is committed to rehabilitation of its properties.
It makes use of independent environmental consultants for advice and it also uses past experience in similar situations to ensure that the provisions for rehabilitation are adequate.
Current Life of Mine LOM plans envisage the expected outflow to occur at the end of the LOM which is 2028 for Loulo, 2020 for Tongon and 2025 for Gounkoto.
Employment cost T he group contributes to several defined contribution provident funds.
The provident funds are funded on the money accumulative basis with the members and company having been fixed in the constitutions of the funds.
All the groups employees, other than those directly employed by West African subsidiary companies, are entitled to be covered by the above mentioned retirement benefit plans.
Retirement benefits for employees employed by West African subsidiary companies are provided by the state social security system to which the company and employees contribute a fixed percentage of payroll costs each month.
Group 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 US$000 2013 Restated Total employee benefit cost was as follows: Short term benefits 46 070 38 353 Pension contributions 5 577 3 949 Share-based payments 26 282 21 150 Total 77 929 63 452 Share-based payments Share options, restricted shares, performance shares and Co-Investment Plan share awards are granted to directors and employees in exchange for services rendered.
Share-based payments share options The fair value of employee services received as consideration for share options equity settled of the company is calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Options vest after two, three and four years and lapse after a maximum term of ten years.
No new options were granted during the year, therefore no inputs to the option model are provided for the current year.
Refer to the remuneration report on pages 146 to 167 of this annual report for the following details in respect of the options: the weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year: and a reconciliation of option movements in the year.
Employment cost continued The following table summarises the information about the options outstanding, including options that are not yet exercisable: Group Weighted average Weighted Number remaining average of options contractual exercise price outstanding life years US$ Range of exercise price US$ At 31 December 2013 8.05 8.05 75 000 0.59 8.05 22.19 22.19 89 577 3.
Restricted shares issued to management Restricted shares issued to management are subject to a satisfactory performance level being achieved during the 12 month period prior to the vesting date of each tranche of shares.
The minimum performance level to be achieved is defined as level 3 on the companys performance management system.
All employees to whom restricted shares have been granted are expected to meet this level of performance.
The performance period is typically up to five years and the employee must remain in employment for the shares to vest.
There are no market based vesting conditions on the share awards.
The fair value of the restricted shares issued in 2013 and 2012 are detailed below and the share-based payment charge is charged to profit evenly between the grant and vesting dates.
The restriction on the shares no dividends received during the vesting period had a minimal impact on the fair value estimate at the grant date.
The restricted shares have an exercise price of nil.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 209 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Employment cost continued The fair value of the restricted shares issued in 2013 was calculated using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The key assumptions used in this model for shares granted during the year ending 31 December 2013 were as follows: Group January August US$000 Note 2013 2013 Quantity of shares issued 404 500 54 300 Fair value of shares awarded US$37.4 million US$3.8 million Performance period 3, 4 and 5 years 3, 4 and 5 years Volatility 15.1 34.6%, 41.4% and 51.7% 40.7%, 37.3% and 50.4% Risk free interest rate 0.39%, 0.81% and 0.81% 0.64%, 1.4% and 1.4% Dividend yield 0.4% 0.7% Weighted average share price on grand and valuation date 15.2 US$93.4 US$71.29 Weighted average exercise price - - 15.1 Volatility is based on the three year historical volatility of the companys shares over the relevant vesting periods.
15.2 Weighted average share price for the valuation is calculated taking into account the market price on all grant dates.
In 2012, there were 226 200 awards of restricted shares: 120 000 awards in January 2012 and 106 200 awards in August 2012.
The market price at the award dates was US$113.42 and US$90.63 respectively and each award vests over three, four and five years in equal tranches.
The volatility, risk free rate and dividend yield had no significant impact on fair value but were consistent with those above.
The total fair value of the awards was US$22.9 million over the vesting.
Restricted shares issued to executive directors in 2009 and 2010.
The restricted shares issued to executive directors in 2009 and 2010 were subject to directors remaining employed, as well as being subject to a market performance condition, being the companys relative TSR performance over three years against the HSBC Global Gold Index since renamed the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
This was assessed and had a minimal impact on the fair value estimate at the grant date.
The fair value of the restricted shares was based on the share price on the grant date and the share-based payment charge is charged to profit evenly between the grant and vesting dates.
Details of the awards that vested and lapsed in the year are shown on pages 166 and 167 of this annual report, together with details of the award dates and market prices at award and vesting dates.
Restricted share awards granted to executive directors in 2011, 2012 and 2013 T he Restricted Share Scheme for 2011, 2012 and 2013 operates with conditional share awards, where the awards shall vest in three equal one-third instalments.
If the performance conditions are met, awards vest to participants at the end of each performance period.
The whole award is subject to four performance conditions, ie absolute TSR market based, EPS growth, additional reserves and absolute reserves.
Grant date fair value was calculated using the market-based measure.
No dividends are attributable during the vesting period.
Refer to the remuneration report on pages 146 to 167 of this annual report for more detail.
Employment cost continued The fair value of the restricted shares issued to executive directors in 2013 and 2012 was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The key assumptions used in this model for shares awarded during the year ending 31 December 2013 and 2012 were as follows: Group March March US$000 Note 2013 2012 35 305 Quantity of shares issued 45 125 US$2.7 million Fair value of shares awarded US$2.3 million Performance period 3, 4 and 5 years with 3, 4 and 5 years with a 1 year post vesting a 1 year post vesting retention requirement retention requirement Risk free interest rate 0.37%, 0.52% and 0.76% 0.56%, 0.82% and 1.08% Volatility 15.1 40% 40% Euromoney Global Gold Index volatility 30% 30% Correlation used between the Euromoney Global Gold Index and the company TSR 80% 80% Weighted average share price on grant and valuation date 15.2 US$82.37 US$101.49 15.1 Volatility is based on the three year historical volatility of the companys shares over the relevant vesting periods.
Career Share Award performance shares At the companys 2013 annual general meeting shareholders approved an award of performance shares to the CEO.
Consequently 50 031 shares were awarded on 29 April 2013 which vest subject to certain performance conditions as detailed on pages 146 to 167 of this annual report.
The fair value was determined at US$4.0 million.
The vesting of each one-fifth of the performance shares for the CEO was dependent on a number of conditions the first of which is the first gold pour at Kibali gold mine which occurred on 24 September 2014.
Accordingly, the performance condition in respect of 10 006 shares was met at a value of US$71.54.
These shares will be transferred to the CEO provided the CEO is in office or employment by the company on 29 April 2016.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 211 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Employment cost continued Restricted shares issued to directors and management excluding Co-Investment Plan Movements in the number of restricted shares outstanding and their issue prices are as follows: Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted market market price average average price at at award remaining remaining award date date contractual contractual US$ US$ Shares Shares life years life years 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Shares granted to executive directors At 1 January 77.26 59.93 113 215 122 577 Awarded 82.37 101.4 45 125 35 305 Vested 51.15 48.25 31 333 44 667 Lapsed - - - - At 31 December 85.54 77.26 127 007 113 215 3.29 2.84 Shares awarded to non-executive directors At 1 January 81.60 81.79 9 600 17 600 Awarded 78.79 79.06 8 400 7 200 Vested 79.57 79.42 14 400 15 200 Lapsed - - - - At 31 December 80.03 81.60 3 600 9 600 - 0.75 Shares awarded to employees At 1 January 90.61 85.82 869 100 721 200 Awarded 91.26 103.85 458 800 226 200 Vested 88.00 - 100 000 - Lapsed 92.53 90.35 70 400 78 300 At 31 December 90.76 90.61 1 157 500 869 100 2.92 3.07 Being share price on the date of issue 6 May 2013.
Participation in Co-Investment Plan by executive directors in 2013 and 2012 O ne third of any annual bonus earned is compulsorily deferred and an executive director may also elect to make a further commitment into the Co-Investment Plan.
The maximum commitment which may be made in the Co-Investment Plan is 200% of base salary by the CEO and 100% of base salary by the CFO for 2013 and 2012.
Committed shares must be retained for three years and may be matched, depending on relative TSR performance over three years against the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
If after three years the TSR performance of the company equals or exceeds the performance of the Euromoney Global Gold Index, then the committed shares may be matched on a stepped scale.
Refer to the remuneration report on pages 146 to 167 of this annual report for further details of the scheme conditions, reconciliation of awards outstanding and weighted average price at vesting.
The maximum level of matching is one-for-one.
The vesting of the award is dependent on the companys TSR performance relative to the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
The fair value of awards made under the Co-Investment Plan in 2013 and 2012 was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
Employment cost continued The key assumptions used in this model for awards made under the Co-Investment Plan during the years ending 31 December 2013 and 2012 were as follows: Group March March US$000 Note 2013 2012 Quantity of shares issued 45 125 33 305 Fair value of shares awarded US$1.6 million US$1.9 million Performance period 3 years 3 years Risk free interest rate 0.37% 0.56% Volatility 15.1 40% 40% Euromoney Global Gold Index volatility 30% 30% Correlation used between the Euromoney Global Gold Index and the company TSR 80% 80% Weighted average share price on grant and valuation date 15.2 US$82.37 US$101.49 15.1 Volatility is based on the three year historical volatility of the companys shares over the relevant vesting periods.
Participation in Co-Investment Plan by senior management in 2013 Senior management have the opportunity to participate in Randgolds Senior Management Co-Investment Plan from 2013.
The maximum commitment which may be made in the Co-Investment Plan is 100% of base salary.
Committed shares must be retained for three years and may be matched, depending on the relative TSR performance over three years against the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
The fair value of awards made under the Co-Investment Plan in 2013 was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The key assumptions used in this model for awards made under the Co-Investment Plan during the year ending 31 December 2013 were as follows: Group March US$000 Note 2013 Quantity of shares issued 21 961 Fair value of shares awarded US$0.8 million Performance period 3 years Risk free interest rate 0.37% Volatility 15.1 40% Euromoney Global Gold Index volatility 30% Correlation used between the Euromoney Global Gold Index and the company TSR 80% Weighted average share price on grant and valuation date 15.2 US$81.48 15.1 Volatility is based on the three year historical volatility of the companys shares over the relevant vesting periods.
Segmental information Operating segments have been identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the group that are regularly reviewed by the groups chief operating decision maker.
The operating segments included in internal reports are determined on the basis of their significance to the group.
In particular, operating mines are reported as separate segments and exploration projects that have significant capitalised expenditure or other fixed assets are also reported separately.
The Kibali and Morila joint ventures are included on a line by line basis, reflecting internal reporting.
Other parts of the group, including the RAL 1 joint venture, are included with corporate and exploration.
The groups chief operating decision maker is considered by management to be the board of directors.
An analysis of the groups business segments, excluding intergroup transactions, is set out below.
Major customers are not identifiable because all gold is sold to an agent.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 213 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Financial risk management In the normal course of its operations, the group is exposed to gold price, currency, interest rate, liquidity and credit risks.
In order to manage these risks, the group may enter into transactions which make use of on-balance sheet derivatives.
The group does not acquire, hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.
The group has developed a risk management process to facilitate, control and monitor these risks.
The board has approved and monitors this risk management process, inclusive of documented treasury policies, counterpart limits, controlling and reporting structures.
Controlling risk in the group The treasury committee is responsible for treasury financial risk management activities within the group.
The treasury committee reviews and recommends to the board all treasury counterparts, limits, instruments and any hedge strategies.
At least two members of the treasury committee need to be present for a decision to be made, one of whom needs to be an executive director.
Unless specific dispensation is obtained from the audit committee, the treasury committee is permitted to invest up to US$50 million or 20% of the total funds whichever is the higher with each approved institution with an investment rating of AA or higher noting that no institution can exceed US$100 million.
The treasury committee is also permitted to invest up to US$12.5 million or 5% of the total funds whichever is the higher with each approved institution with an investment rating above A but below AA-, provided that no investment exceeds US$25 million.
The majority of the cash for the group was held with the groups principal bankers at year end.
The treasury committee is responsible for managing investment, gold price, currency, liquidity and credit risk.
The treasury committee monitors adherence to treasury risk management policy and counterpart limits and provides regular reports to the board.
The financial risk management objectives of the group are defined as follows: safeguarding the group core earnings stream from its major assets through the effective control and management of gold price risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and credit risk: effective and efficient usage of credit facilities in both the short and long term through the adoption of reliable liquidity management planning and procedures: ensuring that investment and any hedging transactions are undertaken with creditworthy counterparts: and ensuring that all contracts and agreements related to risk management activities are coordinated consistently throughout the group and comply where necessary with all relevant regulatory and statutory requirements.
The group continues to hold material TVA receivable balances.
While management continue to pursue recovery of the TVA in cash, it is recognised that in practice given the continued absence of payment, the TVA in Mali may only be recovered through the tax offset mechanism set out in the mining convention.
Management reports the TVA position and movements on a quarterly basis to the audit committee.
Refer to pages 140 to 143 of this annual report for details on the groups risk factors.
Foreign currency and commodity price risk In the normal course of business, the group enters into transactions denominated in foreign currencies primarily euro, South African rand and Communaut Financire Africaine franc.
As a result, the group is subject to exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.
In general, the group does not enter into derivatives to manage these currency risks and none existed in 2012 or 2013.
Generally, the group does not hedge its exposure to gold price fluctuation risk and gold was sold at market spot prices in 2012 and 2013.
Gold sales are made in US dollars and do not expose the group to any currency fluctuation risk.
However, during periods of capital expenditure or loan finance, the company may use forward contracts or options to reduce the exposure to price movements, while maintaining significant exposure to spot prices.
These derivatives may establish a fixed price for a portion of future production while the group maintains the ability to benefit from increases in the spot gold price for the majority of future gold production.
The group is also exposed to fluctuations in the price of consumables, such as fuel, steel, rubber, cyanide and lime, mainly due to changes in the price of oil, as well as fluctuations in exchange rates.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 215 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Financial risk management continued Group Company 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 Restated 2013 2012 Level of exposure of foreign currency risk Carrying value of foreign currency balances Cash and cash equivalents includes balances denominated in: Communaut Financire Africaine franc CFA 5 593 10 475 4 1 035 Euro EUR 4 078 34 067 7 33 091 South African rand ZAR 814 30 171 19 29 639 British pound GBP 46 138 251 129 Trade and other receivables includes balances denominated in: Communaut Financire Africaine franc CFA 112 882 7 526 - 427 South African rand ZAR 10 727 720 11 503 Euro EUR 16 250 12 - 2 Trade and other payables includes balances denominated in: Communaut Financire Africaine franc CFA 72 443 28 797 - 132 Euro EUR 30 688 2 797 2 - South African rand ZAR 8 228 39 841 10 357 British pound GBP 1 006 123 432 77 The groups exposure to foreign currency arises where a company holds monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency different to the functional currency of the holder of the instrument which is the US dollar.
The following table shows the impact of a 10% change in the US dollar on profit and equity arising as a result of the revaluation of the groups foreign currency financial instruments: Group Company Effect of 10% Effect of 10% strengthening strengthening of US$ on net of US$ on net earnings and earnings and Closing equity equity exchange rate US$000 US$000 At 31 December 2013 Euro EUR 0.7264 1 036 1 Communaut Financire Africaine franc CFA 476.64 3 485 - South African rand ZAR 10.50 331 2 British pound GBP 0.61 99 - At 31 December 2012 Restated Euro EUR 0.7567 3 128 3 309 Communaut Financire Africaine franc CFA 496.35 1 080 74 South African rand ZAR 8.4875 895 2 979 The sensitivities are based on financial assets and liabilities held at 31 December where balances were not denominated in the functional currency of the group.
The sensitivities do not take into account the groups sales and costs and the results of the sensitivities could change due to other factors such as changes in the value of financial assets and liabilities as a result of non-foreign exchange influenced factors.
Interest rate and liquidity risk Fluctuations in interest rates impact on the value of short term cash investments and interest payable on financing activities including long term loans, giving rise to interest rate risk.
In the ordinary course of business, the group receives cash from its operations and is required to fund working capital and capital expenditure requirements.
Financial risk management continued The group generally enters into variable interest bearing borrowings.
This cash is managed to ensure surplus funds are invested in a manner to achieve maximum returns while minimising risks.
The group typically holds financial investments with an average maturity of 30 days to ensure adequate liquidity.
The group is able to actively source financing at competitive rates.
The counterparts are financial and banking institutions of good credit standing.
The group has in the past been able to actively source financing through public offerings, shareholder loans and third party loans.
The company has entered into a US$200.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with HSBC and three other banks which matures in May 2016 and is at present undrawn.
The interest rate is LIBOR plus 1.5% at the lower end of the leverage area.
Based on the companys current cash resources and facilities, projected operating cash flows and capital expenditure, the company is confident it will be able to meet its obligations at the prevailing gold price.
The facility includes financial covenants in respect of EBIT, EBITDA, net finance charges, tangible net worth, total debt, debt cover and interest cover.
Group Company Effective Effective Amount rate for Amount rate for Maturity date US$000 the year % US$000 the year % Cash and cash equivalents: All less than 90 days 38 151 0.54% 3 693 1.44% The other financial instruments of the group that are not included in the tables above are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
Concentration of credit risk The groups cash balances do not give rise to a concentration of credit risk because it deals with a variety of major financial institutions.
Its receivables and loans are regularly monitored and assessed.
Receivables are impaired when it is probable that amounts outstanding are not recoverable as set out in the accounting policy note for receivables.
Gold bullion, the groups principal product, is produced in Mali and Cte dIvoire and in the case of its joint ventures in DRC and Mali.
The gold produced is sold to the largest accredited gold refinery in the world.
Credit risk is further managed by regularly reviewing the financial statements of the refinery.
The group is further not exposed to significant credit risk on gold sales, as cash is received within a few days of the sale taking place.
While not financial assets for IFRS 7, included in receivables is US$129.9 million 2012: US$87.5 million refer to note 7 relating to indirect taxes owing to Loulo, Gounkoto and Tongon by the State of Mali, which are denominated in FCFA, which holds some credit risk for the group.
The legally binding mining conventions in Mali permit offsetting of other corporate taxes against approved unpaid TVA.
A further US$36.4 million 2012: US$21.2 million is held within the underlying statement of financial position of the equity accounted Kibali joint venture which is considered recoverable given the receipts obtained during the year.
Capital risk management The groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, buyback shares, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
Consistent with others in the industry, the group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
This ratio is calculated as net debt net cash divided by total capital.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including borrowings and trade and other payables, as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position but excluding loans from minority shareholders in subsidiaries less cash and cash equivalents.
Total capital is calculated as equity, as shown in the consolidated statement of financial position, plus net debt net cash.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 217 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Financial risk management continued Group 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 US$000 2013 Restated Capital risk management 174 445 133 441 Trade and other payables 38 151 373 868 Less: cash and cash equivalents 136 294 240 427 Net position 3 057 854 2 777 687 Total equity 3 194 148 2 537 260 Total capital 4.3% 0% Gearing ratio Maturity analysis T he following table analyses the groups financial liabilities into the relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the statement of financial position to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances will not necessarily correspond with the amounts disclosed in the statement of financial position.
Group Company Trade Other Trade Loan and other financial and other from US$000 payables Borrowings liabilities payables subsidiaries At 31 December 2013 Financial liabilities Within 1 year, on demand 160 942 - - 13 701 - Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years - - - - - After 5 years - - 2 929 - 1 847 Total 160 942 - 2 929 13 701 1 847 At 31 December 2012 Restated Financial liabilities Within 1 year, on demand 124 441 - - 13 324 - Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years - - - - - After 5 years - - 3 249 - 1 473 Total 124 441 - 3 249 13 324 1 473 18.
Fair value of financial instruments T he following table shows the carrying amounts and fair values of the groups financial instruments outstanding at 31 December 2013 and 2012.
The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
Fair value of financial instruments continued Group Company Carrying Carrying Fair amount Fair value Carrying Fair Carrying amount value 31 Dec 31 Dec amount value amount Fair value Categories of financial 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 2012 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 instruments 2013 2013 Restated Restated 2013 2013 2012 2012 Available-for-sale financial assets categorised as level 1  financial forassets sale 1 831 1 831 3 003 3 003 1 830 1 830 3 003 3 003 The table above shows the level of the fair value valuation hierarchy applied to financial instruments carried at fair value.
The total financial assets valued using level 1 is US$1.8 million 2012: US$3.0 million company: US$1.8 million 2012: US$3.0 million.
There have been no transfers between the levels of fair value hierarchy during the current or prior year.
Randgold does not hold any financial instruments that are fair valued using a level 2 or level 3 valuation.
No derivative financial instruments currently exist.
All other financial instrument carrying values approximate fair value.
Estimation of fair values Trade and other receivables, trade and other payables, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, loans to and from subsidiaries and joint ventures The carrying amounts are a reasonable estimate of the fair values because of the short maturity of such instruments or their interest bearing nature.
Gold price contracts The group is fully exposed to the spot gold price on gold sales.
Commitments and contingent liabilities Capital expenditure contracted for at statement of financial position date but not yet incurred is: Property, plant and equipment - subsidiaries 13 049 98 144 Commitments of joint ventures attributable share Kibali 16 466 119 400 Morila 396 - RAL 1 282 - 17 144 119 400 Total 30 193 217 544 Under the Kibali Joint Venture Agreement JVA, the obligation of the parties Randgold Resources Kibali Ltd and AngloGold Ashanti Holdings plc in respect of the future funding including but not limited to operating costs, capital costs and other costs of the company Kibali Goldmines SPRL and or the Kibali project shall be pro-rata in proportion to their respective percentage interests in Kibali at the time any such future funding is required.
In accordance with the Kibali JVA, Kibali will be funded via intercompany loans.
The approved capital expenditure plan for 2014 is US$310 million of which Randgold will contribute 50%.
Operating lease commitments The lease relates to the oxygen plant at Loulo leased from Maligaz.
The duration of the contract is 10 years and the contract is renewable for additional periods of 5 years thereafter.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under operating leases are as follows: No later than 1 year 2 817 1 686 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 11 268 6 744 Later than 5 years 8 451 5 058 22 536 13 488 These payments also include payments for non-lease elements in the arrangement.
As discussed more fully in note 3, the group has received claims for various taxes in respect of subsidiaries and joint ventures from the State of Mali totalling US$123.1 million 2012: US$86.2 million, which the group considers to be without merit.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 219 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Group Company 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 Restated 2013 2012 20.
Related party transactions Management fee received from Rockwell Diamonds Inc 42 53 42 53 Net income from Loulo - - 32 275 27 707 Net income from Tongon - - 13 070 14 498 Net income from Morila 24 729 76 289 24 729 76 289 Net income from Gounkoto - - 119 649 112 017 Net income from Kibali 10 724 6 640 10 724 6 640 Net income from RAL 1 4 201 2 571 4 201 2 571 Net income refers to interest, management fees and dividends.
In terms of the operator agreement between Morila SA and AngloGold Ashanti Services Mali SA, a management fee, calculated as 1% of the total sales of Morila SA, is payable to Randgold through Mining Investments Jersey Ltd. Randgold through Randgold Resources Somilo Ltd is the operators of Loulo gold mine, Tongon gold mine through Mining Investments Jersey Ltd, as well as of Gounkoto SA through Randgold Resources Gounkoto Ltd.
Seven Bridges Trading 14 Pty Ltd provided administration services to Rockwell Diamonds Inc Rockwell.
Dr DM Bristow is a nonexecutive director of Rockwell.
The balances outstanding at year end related to Rockwell were negligible 2012: nil.
Refer to note 10 for details of the companys investments in and loans to subsidiaries and joint ventures within the group together with its relevant share of income and expense.
Group 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec US$000 2013 Restated Key management remuneration Short term employee benefits 11 983 11 357 Share-based payments 12 326 12 833 Total 24 309 24 190 This includes compensation for two executive directors 2012: Two, eight non-executive directors 2012: Seven and nineteen executive management personnel 2012: Twenty-one.
Refer to directors profiles on page 12 and executives profiles along with detail of their roles and responsibilities on pages 16 and 17.
Non-GAAP information Randgold has identified certain measures that it believes will assist understanding of the performance of the business.
As the measures are not defined under IFRS they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but management has included them as these are considered to be important comparables and key measures used within the business for assessing performance.
These measures are explained further below: Total cash costs and cash cost per ounce are non-GAAP measures.
Total cash costs and total cash cost per ounce are calculated using guidance issued by the Gold Institute.
The Gold Institute was a non-profit industry association comprising leading gold producers, refiners, bullion suppliers and manufacturers.
This institute has now been incorporated into the National Mining Association.
The guidance was first issued in 1996 and revised in November 1999.
Total cash costs, as defined in the Gold Institutes guidance, include mine production, transport and refinery costs, general and administrative costs, movement in production inventories and ore stockpiles, transfers to and from deferred stripping where relevant and royalties.
Total cash costs and cash cost per ounce also include our share of our equity accounted joint ventures total cash costs and cash cost per ounce.
Non-GAAP information continued Total cash cost per ounce is calculated by dividing total cash costs, as determined using the Gold Institute guidance, by gold ounces sold for the periods presented.
Total cash costs and total cash cost per ounce are calculated on a consistent basis for the periods presented.
Total cash costs and total cash cost per ounce should not be considered by investors as an alternative to operating profit or net profit attributable to shareholders, as an alternative to other IFRS measures or an indicator of our performance.
The data does not have a meaning prescribed by IFRS and therefore amounts presented may not be comparable to data presented by gold producers who do not follow the guidance provided by the Gold Institute.
In particular depreciation and amortisation would be included in a measure of total costs of producing gold under IFRS, but are not included in total cash costs under the guidance provided by the Gold Institute.
Furthermore, while the Gold Institute has provided a definition for the calculation of total cash costs and total cash cost per ounce, the calculation of these numbers may vary from company to company and may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures of other companies.
However, Randgold believes that total cash cost per ounce is a useful indicator to investors and management of a mining companys performance as it provides an indication of a companys profitability and efficiency, the trends in cash costs as the companys operations mature, and a benchmark of performance to allow for comparison against other companies.
Cash operating costs and cash operating cost per ounce are calculated by deducting royalties from total cash costs.
Cash operating cost per ounce is calculated by dividing cash operating costs by gold ounces sold for the periods presented.
Total cash operating costs and cash operating cost per ounce include our share of joint ventures' total operating cash cost and operating cash cost per ounce.
G old sales is a non-GAAP measure.
It represents the sales of gold at spot and the gains losses on hedge contracts which have been delivered into at the designated maturity date.
It excludes gains losses on hedge contracts which have been rolled forward to match future sales.
This adjustment is considered appropriate because no cash is received paid in respect of these contracts.
Randgold currently does not have any hedge positions.
Gold sales include our share of our equity accounted joint ventures gold sales.
Profit from mining activity is calculated by subtracting total cash costs from gold sales for all periods presented.
Profit from mining includes our share of our equity accounted joint ventures.
Gold on hand represents gold in dor at the mines multiplied by the prevailing spot gold price at the end of the period.
Gold on hand includes our share of our equity accounted joint ventures gold on hand.
The following table reconciles total cash costs and profit from mining activity as non-GAAP measures, to the information provided in the statement of comprehensive income, determined in accordance with IFRS, for each of the periods set out alongside.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 221 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Non-GAAP information continued Year Year ended ended 31 Dec 31 Dec US$000 2013 2012 1 183 127 Gold sales per IFRS 1 137 690 Gold sales adjustments for joint ventures 129 022 134 703 Gold sales 1 266 712 1 317 830 Mine production costs 536 229 438 331 Movement in production inventory and ore stockpiles 49 730 43 716 Transport and refining costs 2 663 2 718 Royalties 64 455 67 802 Royalty adjustment for joint ventures 6 040 8 092 Total royalties 58 415 59 710 Other mining and processing costs 61 319 75 770 Cash cost adjustments for joint ventures 49 055 50 511 Total cash costs 657 951 583 324 Profit from mining activity 608 761 734 506 Depreciation and amortisation 130 638 117 991 Exploration and corporate expenditure 49 485 39 033 Finance income 1 242 2 048 Other income 6 028 12 555 Finance costs 7 737 984 Profit before income tax 402 461 547 836 Ounces sold 920 248 793 852 Total cash cost per ounce per ounces sold 715 735 649 Cash operating cost per ounce per ounces sold 645 Group 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 US$000 2013 Restated 22.
Mining and processing costs and other disclosable items Mine production costs 536 229 438 331 Movement in production inventory and ore stockpiles 49 730 43 716 Depreciation and amortisation 130 638 117 991 Other mining and processing costs 61 319 75 770 678 456 588 376 The above includes: Impairment of receivables - - Other income primarily includes foreign exchange gains and management fees receivable from joint ventures.
222 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Group Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 US$000 2013 Restated 23.
Exploration and corporate expenditure Exploration and corporate expenditure comprise: Exploration expenditure 22 638 16 157 Corporate expenditure 26 847 22 876 49 485 39 033 Group Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec 2012 US$000 2013 Restated 24.
Finance income and costs Finance income interest income 1 242 1 857 Finance income net foreign exchange gain on financing activities - 191 Finance income 1 242 2 048 Interest expense borrowings 1 373 117 Finance costs net foreign exchange loss on financing activities 5 049 - Unwind of discount on provisions for environmental rehabilitation 1 315 867 Finance costs 7 737 984 Finance costs income net 6 495 1 064 Interest income arises on cash and cash equivalents.
Interest expenses arise on borrowings measured at amortised cost.
Subsequent events No significant subsequent events requiring disclosure or adjustment occurred.
Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 223 Shareholders information Shareholders information NEXT... Unlocking value for the future: Randgold continues to maintain its focus on organic growth through discovery and development of world class orebodies and has a pipeline of quality projects and exploration targets.
The most advanced of these is the Massawa gold project in eastern Senegal, a grassroots discovery approximately 90 kilometres west of the Loulo mine in Mali.
Exploration programmes are focused on extending known orebodies in Shareholders information the most prospective gold belts of West and Central Africa: Senegal, Mali, 226 Analysis of shareholding Cte dIvoire and the Democratic Republic of Congo, where Randgold 228 Shareholders diary 229 Group companies currently has groundholdings totalling 12 995km, hosting 160 targets.
One 230 Operations and offices of Randgolds key objectives is to increase its footprint in these regions, and it 231 Directory has signed three new joint venture partnerships in Mali, Senegal and the DRC 232 Delivering value step by step over the last year.
Analysis of shareholding at 31 December 2013 Shareholding over 5 per cent The Randgold share register of shareholders reflects only one holder, being BNY Nominees Ltd, as holding more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the company.
It is noted that these shares are held for and on behalf of ADR holders.
Van Eck Associates Corp Wells Fargo & Co: Wells Capital Management, Inc, Wells Fargo Advisors LLC, Delaware Charter Guarantee and Trust, Wells Fargo Bank NA.
Vontobel Holding AG: Vontobel Asset Management, Inc, Bank Vontobel AG.
Legal & General Group Plc: Legal & General Investment Management Ltd, Legal & General Asset Management France SA FMR LLC: Fidelity Management & Research Co, Pyramis Global Advisors LLC, FIL Investments International, Strategic Advisers, Inc, FIL Investments Japan Ltd, FIL Investment Management Australia Ltd. State Street Corp: State Street Global Advisors Ltd, SSgA Funds Management, Inc, State Street Global Advisors Japan Co Ltd, State Street Global Advisors Australia Ltd, State Street Global Advisors France SA, State Street Global Advisors Ltd Canada, State Street Global Advisors Asia Ltd, State Street Global Advisors Singapore Ltd. Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP: APG Asset Management NV.
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co: OppenheimerFunds, Inc, Baring Asset Management Ltd, Baring Asset Management LLC, Babson Capital Management LLC.
The Vanguard Group, Inc: The Vanguard Group, Inc, Vanguard Investments Australia Ltd. Comgest SA: Comgest SA, Comgest Asset Management International Ltd, Comgest Singapore Pte Ltd. AGF Management Ltd: AGF Investments, Inc, Acuity Investment Management, Inc. UBS AG: UBS Global Asset Management UK Ltd, UBS AG Prime Brokerage account, UBS AG Investment Management, UBS Securities LLC, ING Investment Management Australia Ltd, UBS Global Asset Management, UBS Global Asset Management Singapore Ltd, UBS Wealth Management UK Ltd, UBS Global Asset Management Deutschland GmbH, UBS Global Asset Management Italia SGR SpA.
Lloyds Banking Group Plc: Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd. Franklin Resources, Inc: Franklin Advisers, Inc, Franklin Templeton Investment Management Ltd. Arnhold & S. Bleichroeder Holdings, Inc: First Eagle Investment Management LLC.
GAMCO Investors, Inc: GAMCO Asset Management Inc. Tocqueville Asset Management LP Wellington Management Co LLP JPMorgan Chase & Co: JPMorgan Asset Management UK Ltd, JPMorgan Securities Plc, JPMorgan Investment Management, Inc, JPMorgan Securities LLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, JPMorgan Asset Management Japan Ltd. Shareholders diary Financial year end 31 December Annual general meeting Tuesday 6 May 2014 Announcement of quarterly results First quarter Thursday 8 May 2014 Second quarter Wednesday 7 August 2014 Third quarter Thursday 6 November 2014 Fourth quarter and year end Monday 9 February 2015 Note that the above dates may be subject to change and should be confirmed by checking on the website www.
Stock exchange Ticker symbol London Stock Exchange ords RRS NASDAQ Stock Market ADRs GOLD 228 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Group companies at 31 December 2013 % % effective effective ownership Countries incorporated ownership Countries incorporated Jersey Cte dIvoire Isiro Jersey Limited 51 Randgold Resources Cte dIvoire SARL 100 KAS 1 Limited 25 Socit des Mines fide Tongon SA 89 Kibali Jersey Limited 50 Democratic Republic of the Congo Kibali 2 Jersey Limited 50 Amani Gold SPRL 50 Kibali Services Limited 50 Blue Rose SPRL 50 Mining Investments Jersey Limited 100 Gorumbwa Mining SPRL 50 Morila Limited 50 Moto Jersey 1 Limited 50 KGL Isiro SARL 51 Moto Jersey 2 Limited 50 Kibali Gold SPRL 50 RAL 1 Limited 50.1 Kibali Goldmines SPRL 45 Randgold Resources Burkina Limited 100 Rambi Mining SPRL 50 Randgold Resources Cte dIvoire Limited 100 Randgold Resources Congo SPRL 100 Randgold Resources DRC Limited 100 Tangold SPRL 50 Randgold Resources Gounkoto Limited 100 Mali Randgold Resources Kibali Limited 100 Randgold Resources Ltd - Kankou Moussa SARL 75 Randgold Resources Mali Limited 100 Randgold Resources Mali SARL 100 Randgold Resources Secretaries Limited 100 Socit des Mines fide Gounkoto SA 80 Randgold Resources Senegal Limited 100 Socit des Mines fide Loulo SA 80 Randgold Resources Somilo Limited 100 Socit des Mines fide Morila SA 40 Randgold Resources T1 Limited 100 South Africa Randgold Resources T2 Limited 100 Seven Bridges Trading 14 PTY Ltd 100 Australia Tanzania Border Energy Pty Ltd 50 Border Resources NL 50 Randgold Resources Tanzania T Ltd 100 Moto Goldmines Australia Pty Ltd 50 The Netherlands Westmount Resources NL 50 Kibali Cooperatief UA 50 Burkina Faso Uganda Randgold Resources Burkina Faso SARL 100 Border Energy East Africa Pty Ltd 50 Canada UK 0858065 BC Limited 50 Randgold Resources UK Ltd 100 Moto Goldmines Limited 50 Share price performance vs Euromoney Global Gold Index and FTSE 100 indices graph Index rebased to 100 at January 2013 Volumes traded millions 140 4 3.5 120 3 100 2.5 80 2 60 1.5 40 1 20 0.5 0 0 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 229 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 Jul 13 Aug 13 Sep 13 Oct 13 Nov 13 Dec 13 Jan 14 Feb 14 FTSE 100 TSR Randgold LSE TSR Euromoney global gold TSR Volumes LSE and NASDAQ Operations and offices Morila gold mine Cte dIvoire Tel: 223 66 75 04 30 38 43 45 46 52 55 Randgold Resources Cte dIvoire SARL Fax: 223 66 75 01 90 22 Rue des Hortensias L125 Boulevard Latrille Senegal Cocody Ambassades Randgold Resources Senegal Ltd 01 BP 1216, Abidjan 01 67 Ave Andr Peytavin, BP 887 Tel: 225 22 48 23 60 22 40 09 30 Dakar, Senegal Fax: 225 22 44 38 51 Tel: 221 33 849 17 80 Fax: 221 33 849 17 84 Tongon gold mine Tel: 44 20 3005 3100 South Africa Democratic Republic of the Congo Seven Bridges Trading 14 Pty Ltd Level 0, Wilds View, Isle of Houghton Kibali Goldmines SPRL Carse OGowrie Road, Houghton Estate 4239, Avenue Tombal Baye eme Johannesburg, 2198 3 Etage fide lImmeuble Le Prestige Commune fide la Gombe, Ville fide Kinshasa PO Box 3011, Houghton, 2041 Democratic Republic of the Congo South Africa Tel: 243 812 532 441 Tel: 27 11 481 72 00 243 990 511 006 Fax: 27 11 481 72 46 Jersey Uganda Randgold Resources Limited Border Energy East Africa Pty Ltd 3rd floor, Unity Chambers Alice Reef Road, Plot 110 28 Halkett Street, St Helier Entebbe, Uganda Jersey JE2 4WJ, Channel Islands Tel: 256 204 400 200 Tel: 44 1534 735 333 44 1534 735 444 United Kingdom Randgold Resources UK Ltd Mali st 1 Floor, 2 Savoy Court Randgold Resources Mali SARL Strand, London, WC2R 0EZ Faladi, 6448 Avenue fide lOUA United Kingdom BP E1160, Bamako, Mali Tel: 44 207 557 77 30 Tel: 223 20 20 38 58 20 20 20 06 20 20 16 94 Fax: 44 207 557 77 34 Fax: 223 20 20 44 07 20 20 81 87 Loulo and Gounkoto gold mines Tel: 223 21 51 30 00 01 02 03 07 Fax: 223 21 51 30 04 06 Disclaimer Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements: Except for the historical information contained herein, the matters discussed in this annual report are forwardlooking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and applicable Canadian securities legislation.
Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements with respect to the future price of gold, the estimation of mineral reserves and resources, the realisation of mineral reserve estimates, the timing and amount of estimated future production, costs of production, reserve determination and reserve conversion rates.
Generally, these forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as will, plans, expects or does not expect, is expected, budget, scheduled, estimates, forecasts, intends, anticipates or does not anticipate, or believes, or variations of such words and phrases or state that certain actions, events or results may, could, would, might or will be taken, occur or be achieved.
Assumptions upon which such forward-looking statements are based are in turn based on factors and events that are not within the control of Randgold and there is no assurance they will prove to be correct.
Forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements of Randgold to be materially different from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements, including but not limited to: risks related to mining operations, including political risks and instability and risks related to international operations, actual results of current exploration activities, conclusions of economic evaluations, changes in project parameters as plans continue to be refined, as well as those factors discussed in Randgolds filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC and in this annual report.
Although Randgold has attempted to identify important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements, there may be other factors that cause results not to be as anticipated, estimated or intended.
There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.
Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements.
Randgold does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements herein, except in accordance with applicable securities laws.
Cautionary note to US investors: The SEC permits companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose only proven and probable ore reserves.
We use certain terms in this annual report, such as resources, that the SEC does not recognise and strictly prohibits us from including in our filings with the SEC.
Investors are cautioned not to assume that all or any parts of our resources will ever be converted into reserves which qualify as proven and probable reserves for the purposes of the SECs Industry Guide number 7.
230 Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources Directory Directors United States depositary # 1 Philippe Litard Chairman of the board American Depositary Receipts D Mark Bristow CEO The Bank of New York Mellon Norborne P Cole Jr Shareholder Relations Department $ 2 3 5 Christopher L Coleman 101 Barclay Street, New York Kadri Dagdelen NY 10286, USA 4 Andrew J Quinn Graham P Shuttleworth CFO Auditors $ Karl Voltaire BDO LLP 6 Jeanine M Lioko 6 7 8 Jemal-ud-din Kassum Jamil Kassum Legal counsel Ashurst LLP England # Chairman of governance and nomination committee.
Norton Rose Fulbright LLP USA England Chairman of remuneration committee.
Member of governance and nomination committee.
Ogier Jersey Member of audit committee.
Stikeman Elliott LLP Canada $ Member of remuneration committee.
1 Steps down from the board and governance and nomination committee with effect from 6 May 2014.
2 Appointed chairman of the board with effect from 6 May 2014.
Brokers 3 Steps down from the audit committee with effect from 6 May 2014.
4 Appointed a member of the remuneration committee with effect from Barclays Bank plc 3 May 2014.
5 Appointed chairman of the governance and nomination committee with effect from 6 May 2014.
6 Appointed a member of the audit committee with effect from 3 May 2014.
Financial advisor 7 Appointed a director with effect from 31 January 2014.
8 Appointed a member of the governance and nomination committee HSBC Bank plc with effect from 3 May 2014.
Listing Secretary and registered office Randgold Resources Limited was listed on the London Stock Martin A Welsh Exchange on 1 July 1997 trading symbol: RRS and began Randgold Resources Limited trading on the NASDAQ Stock Market on 11 July 2002 trading 3rd Floor, Unity Chambers symbol: GOLD.
28 Halkett Street, St Helier Jersey, JE2 4WJ, Channel Islands Investor and media relations Tel: 44 1534 735 333 To obtain additional information about the company or to be Fax: 44 1534 735444 placed on the companys distribution list, contact: Kathy du Plessis Registrars Randgold Investor and Media Relations Computershare Investor Services Jersey 3rd Floor, Unity Chambers Limited 28 Halkett Street, St Helier, Jersey Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St Helier JE2 4WJ, Channel Islands Jersey, JE1 1ES, Channels Islands Tel: 44 20 7557 7738 Email: randgold@dpapr.
com UK registrars office Computershare Services PLC Our website is regularly updated to supply you with the latest The Pavilions information on the company www.
Bridgewater Road Bristol, United Kingdom BS99 6ZZ Randgold Resources Limited Incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands Registration number 62686 Designed and produced by du Plessis Associates Key photographer: Theo Pretorius www.
com Annual Report 2013 | Randgold Resources 231
