Other Information shareholder information Shareholder information A wide range of information for shareholders and investors 2013 14 financial calendar is available in the Investors area of the Rank Group 13 September 2013 Record date for 2012 13 final dividend website: www.
17 October 2013 Annual general meeting and interim Frequently asked questions management statement We have a shareholder frequently asked questions section 23 October 2013 Payment date for 2012 13 on our website which provides answers to many questions final dividend that shareholders have: http: www.
com investors 31 January 2014 Interim results announcement shareholder faqs.
jsp 15 May 2014 Interim management statement Capital gains tax Registrar For the purpose of calculating UK capital gains tax on a All administrative enquiries relating to shares should, in disposal of ordinary shares in the Company held since the first instance, be directed to the Companys registrar 31 March 1982 including shares held in the predecessor quoting reference number 1235 and clearly state the company, The Rank Organisation Plc, the price of the registered shareholders name and address.
Please write Companys ordinary shares at that date was 190p per to The Rank Group Plc Registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect share.
This price should be adjusted for the effects of House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA the rights issue in January 1990, the enhanced share Tel: from the UK 0871 384 2098 and from outside the alternative in July 1993, the sub-division and consolidation UK 44 121 415 7047. of shares in March 1994, the enhanced scrip dividend in March 1998, and the 18 for 25 sub-division and share There is a text phone available on 0871 384 2255 for consolidation aligned with the 65p special dividend shareholders with hearing difficulties.
Calls cost 8p per payment which took place in March 2007.
More minute plus network extras.
information regarding these adjustments is available on the www.
shareview The Shareview portfolio service from the Companys shareholder security registrar gives shareholders more control of their Rank We are aware that some of our shareholders have received shares and other investments including: unsolicited telephone calls concerning their Rank shares.
These communications tend to be from overseas-based direct access to data held for them on the share register brokers who offer a premium price for your Rank shares including recent share movements and dividend details: but ask you to make an upfront payment, typically in the a recent valuation of their portfolio: and form of an insurance bond.
We recommend that before a range of information and practical help for paying any money you: shareholders including how you can elect to receive communications electronically.
obtain the name of the person and firm contacting you: check the FCA register at http: www.
uk register It is easy and free to set up a portfolio shareholders will to ensure they are authorised: just need the shareholder reference printed on their proxy use the details on the FCA Register to contact the firm: form or dividend stationery.
Please visit the following website for more details: www.
call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are no contact details on the FCA Register or you Payment of dividends are told they are out of date: and The Company is no longer operating a dividend search the FCAs list of unauthorised firms and re-investment plan.
Shareholders may find it more individuals to avoid doing business with: http: www.
convenient to make arrangements to have dividends fca.
uk consumers protect-yourself unauthorisedpaid directly to their bank account.
The advantages of firms  this are that the dividend is credited to a shareholders bank account on the payment date, there is no need If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares to present cheques for payment and there is no risk or other investments, you will not have access to the of cheques being lost in the post.
Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
To set up a dividend mandate or to change an existing mandate please contact Equiniti Limited, our registrar, Below, please find the link to the FCAs website which gives whose contact details are above.
Alternatively, information on scams and swindles which shareholders shareholders who use Equinitis Shareview can log on to may find helpful: http: www.
co. uk and follow the online instructions.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 143 other information continued KPi terminology Shareholder information continued Customers Further information on fraud can be found at Unique customers visiting a bingo club or casino or http: www.
uk operating an online account in the 12-month period Action Frauds helpline is 0300 123 2040.
Customer visits We recommend that you report any attempted share Individual customer visits to bingo clubs and casinos frauds to the authorities since providing information with regard to how the fraudsters have contacted and Spend per visit dealt with you will assist the authorities in understanding Revenue divided by customer visits the fraudsters way of operating so as to enable them to disrupt and prevent these activities and prosecute them.
Online offline crossover Percentage of adults participating in both remote and shareGift land-based gaming Shareholders with a very small number of shares, Net promoter score the value of which may make it uneconomical to sell, A measure of a customers propensity to recommend may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Gaming industry terminology Mackintosh Foundation.
Interval games Further information about ShareGift is available at Automated game of bingo played in a licensed club www.
org or by writing to: Adult gaming centre ShareGift A licensed gaming machines arcade 17 Carlton House Terrace Main stage bingo London SW1Y 5AH Traditional game of bingo played in a licensed club Tel: 020 7930 3737 Pari-mutuel gaming For any other information please contact the following Gaming where players compete with each other to win at our registered office: prizes.
The house may take a fee for organising the game Frances Bingham, company secretary but does not participate actively.
Also called player-toSarah Powell, director of treasury and investor relations player gaming Registered office Remote gaming and betting Gambling services offered to customers via the internet The Rank Group Plc, Statesman House, and mobile phone Stafferton Way, Maidenhead SL6 1AY Tel: 01628 504 000 Commission des Jeux The governing body for the gambling industry in Belgium The Rank Group Plc Registered in England and Wales No.
03140769 Gambling Commission The governing body for all sectors of gambling in Great Glossary Britain, with the exception of the National Lottery and Financial terminology spread betting Revenue Income retained by Group after deductions for VAT and GamCare players winnings A charitable organisation that provides counselling and other services to those with gambling-related problems Like-for-like Excludes club openings, closures and relocations, and Responsible Gambling Trust changes to gaming taxation A charitable organisation that funds treatment, education and research related to problem gambling and which was EBITDA formed following the merger of The GREaT Foundation Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and the Responsible Gambling Fund and exceptional items Operating margin Operating profit expressed as a percentage of revenue The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 144 The Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an international network which promotes responsible management of the worlds forests.
Forest certification is combined with a system of product labelling that allows consumers readily to identify timber-based products from certified forests.
Communications and consultancy by Black Sun plc www.
com Printed by CPI Colour The Rank Group Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 The Rank Group Plc Statesman House Stafferton Way Maidenhead SL6 1AY Telephone 01628 504000 Web www.
