Operating Responsibly The bigger picture Our contribution to society At Rank we recognise that the ability of our brands to together for fun and entertainment.
We believe that if we generate value from society is directly linked to their ability do this to the best of our ability, we will be rewarded with to add value to society.
From our origins in motion pictures to todays gaming Every day our teams strive to improve the quality of life in entertainment business, we have remained true to our the communities they serve.
In this section, we highlight founding mission to make life better by bringing people a number of these areas.
operating responsibly Our customers thrills Our people thrills and entertainment and fulfilment We entertain people, we thrill them, We offer exciting careers for people we make them laugh.
In our venues across a range of disciplines, employing and our digital channels, we bring more than 11,000 individuals in fullcommunities together, connecting time and part-time roles across Great people and creating shared experiences.
Our aim at all times is to keep it fun, so that we impact lives in positive rather than negative ways.
Our communities Our communities building for better showing we care We generate significant economic Our teams play valuable roles within benefit both at a national level and their communities through volunteering at a local level through the payment and charitable fund-raising.
of duties, business taxes, rents and rates: the provision of employment: and supporting other businesses through investment in construction, purchasing through our supply chain and providing halo benefits to neighbouring retailers.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 33 DiReCTORs RePORT OPeRaTinG ResPOnsiBly COnTinUeD Our customers thrills and entertainment Our aim is to create enjoyable experiences and happy memories by bringing customers together to share in entertaining, thrilling Keeping it Fun and memorable experiences.
This is the cornerstone of Ranks strategy.
In common with the majority of retailers, we accept that excessive or uncontrolled During the year, our brands entertained 2.7m customers consumption of our services may give rise from the age of 18.
Our venues were open for 364 days to or exacerbate social concerns.
When this of the year some for 24 hours a day in order to serve our arises, it is a problem for us as a business customers.
During this period, we brought communities as well as for society.
together to celebrate a range of cultural occasions, including the Olympic Games, Golden Week, Halloween, Christmas, New Years Eve, Burns Night, St Patricks Day, St Davids Day, Easter and Chinese New Year.
We have much yet to learn about how our brands can best meet customer needs.
In essence, they provide a means for people to come together i. e. for socialisation with a common purpose principally but not exclusively the games that engage their mental faculties and create opportunities to find escape from everyday life.
In these respects, the needs that we serve are similar to those of Ranks first customers the movie-goers of the 1930s.
We continue to conduct research into customer needs in order to create more enjoyable experiences and to expand the ways in which we can thrill and delight them.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 34 The biggest issue in tackling problem gambling is that Our approach has already led to a major overhaul we must first gain a deeper understanding of what is of our responsible gambling customer education chiefly a psychological or sociological rather than programme.
We engaged the help of the British physiological condition.
We welcome engagement Columbia Lottery Corporations award-winning with those who are genuinely concerned about problem GameSense team to help us understand how to gambling and who are willing to come together to make customers more receptive to responsible play address the issue in a collaborative, balanced and communications.
Our intention is to make responsible evidence-based fashion.
Neither sensationalism nor gambling messages more accessible and to make it denial has a place in such an approach.
easier for those with problems to seek help through fide-stigmatisation of the subject.
In this spirit of honest enquiry we commenced a research programme with the University of Salford During the year, we expanded our employee training and the Responsible Gambling Trust to examine programme.
In addition to the 4,913 hours of core problem gambling behaviour: and we have signalled responsible gambling training, we engaged the services our willingness to participate in the Responsible of the specialist counselling firm, Level Ground, to help Gambling Trusts study of Category B gaming our online customer service and marketing teams machines.
In addition, we continue to engage identify signs of problem gambling in women.
with our peer companies, trade associations, games suppliers, regulatory bodies, problem gambling charities and academic institutions to help further our understanding of this critical area.
Hours of responsible Financial Breaches of Reported incidences gambling training contributions self-exclusions of underage undertaken to Responsible gambling Gambling Trust 12 13 12 13 12 13 12 13 4,913 309,000 104 10 Source: Management data The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 35 5,406 4,913 273,000 309,000 134 104 17 10 DiReCTORs RePORT OPeRaTinG ResPOnsiBly COnTinUeD During 2012 13, we invested 200.5m in our teams, Our People mainly through recruitment, training, salaries and benefits.
Where Everyone Counts This represented 38% of our total costs and 34% of Group revenue figures that reflect the critical importance of people in our business.
Our ability to thrill and delight our customers depends upon the Team turnover dropped by 3 percentage points to 24% as we built upon our programme of gaining insight into quality of our people, their skills employee motivations through initiatives to simplify and their motivation to succeed.
work and support our customer-facing teams.
Employee We pride ourselves that Rank is engagement, which is a key lead indicator, remained a place where everyone counts above 70%.
and we recognise that the Across the Group, we offer a wide range of employment reputation of our brands is the opportunities with a choice of part-time and full-time roles personal responsibility of each one in customer service and business support.
Through our of our 11,000 team members.
equal opportunities policies, we are creating more diverse and more vibrant teams, united by a desire to thrill and to bring enjoyment to our customers.
Thrilling careers We help our people to pursue their goals through a structured development programme, designed for different career stages and different development needs.
mentoring An organisation Ranks mentoring programme, which provided career guidance to 50 of our team members in the year was that neglects recognised in May 2012 with the International the human side will Standard of Mentoring Programmes highest accolade the Gold Award.
soon find that the vocational qualifications human side will As an Institute of Leadership and Management neglect them approved centre, we are able to provide our team members with accredited qualifications through internally delivered schemes.
The Rank academy The Rank Academy provides training for the next generation of general managers within our brands.
During the year, 16 aspiring managers graduated lord Rank from the course and a further 21 were enrolled.
Company founder The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 36 Where Everyone Counts in numbers Number of Employee turnover Employee Investment in employees rate % engagement training k score % 12 13 12 13 12 13 12 13 8,607 24% 74% 775k Source: Management data.
With the acquisition of 19 casinos, the total number of team members employed has risen to 11,000. leaders in leisure Rank leadership Programme Working with Birmingham City University, we have Working with Cranfield Universitys School of developed a Post Graduate Diploma in Leisure Leadership Management, we have developed a development and Strategy, aimed principally at those in venue programme for our most senior managers in the Group.
During the year, 19 of our team During the year, 22 of our team completed the course, members graduated from the course and a further 19 bringing the total to 60 over the last four years.
enrolled and two graduates continued their studies to UK Challenge achieve Masters degrees.
For the fourth successive year, a Rank team participated executive self-development in the Intelligent Sport UK Challenge.
The event, Our association with Henley Business School and the which pits our high potential people against peers University of Reading gives executives the opportunity to from other companies, is designed to bring out latent gain insight into other leading organisations and to build abilities in problem-solving, strategic thinking, team their own capabilities.
During the year, 30 of our team work and leadership.
members attended courses at Henley Business School.
international Outreach Rank masters Programme For the second successive year, Rank selected a team Working with the Institute of Work-based Learning, from across its brands to travel overseas in order to we offer senior managers the opportunity to study for learn from the experiences of peers in other markets.
a Masters degree in their chosen professions.
During In October 2012, the team visited Connecticut, New the year, four team members graduated from this course.
York, Pennsylvania and New Jersey to understand more about the US casino market.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 37 8,564 8,607 27 24 76 74 530 775 DiReCTORs RePORT OPeRaTinG ResPOnsiBly COnTinUeD Rank Cares Our communities During 2014, Rank will launch Rank Cares a fund-raising showing we care and volunteering programme designed to allow every team member in the company to do their bit for the local While the core focus for our brands is to bring joy to our community.
The focus for the programme will be to customers in our venues, on our websites and through our provide support and escape for carers those who devote mobile applications, we also find ways to make a difference large parts of their own lives to caring for others.
Every year, we enable thousands of our team members to help out in their communities through charitable fund-raising and volunteering.
During 2012 13, our brand teams raised more than 280,000 for charity.
The main recipient of this was Marie Curie Cancer Care, which has been Ranks chosen charity since 2010 but we also supported a number of others, including the Dame Kelly Holmes Legacy Trust.
Over the years that Rank has been associated with Marie Curie Cancer Care, we have raised more than 1,000,000 for the charity funding more than 50,000 hours of care Rank and the environment for cancer patients and their families from Marie Curies During 2012 13, we made further improvements to the tireless nurses.
way that our business activities interacted with the natural environment.
Spurred on by the generosity of our customers and the support of many of our business suppliers, our teams We achieved our target to reduce our Carbon Footprint engaged in a wide range of fund-raising activities, which by 12,000 tonnes by December 2012.
This was achieved have included: by the introduction of higher efficiency lighting, new environmental controls, improved landfill diversion Team members from Mecca clubs in Chadwell Heath and a programme of staff engagement.
and Dagenham raised 1,150 for Marie Curie Cancer Care by braving the rapids of the Olympic white water In the CRC league table we came 77th and in the Hotel, rafting course in London: Hospitality and Leisure sector we came a creditable 5th.
The seventh annual Rank City Poker Classic raised more A new target has been set to reduce our like-for-like gas than 3,200 for Marie Curie Cancer Care by pitting and electricity consumption by 10% and increase the level against one another the best Texas Hold Em players of landfill diverted to 85% by the end of June 2015. from across Londons Square Mile: Team Rank was awarded the fund-raiser of the year award at the Intelligent Sport UK Challenge by raising almost 11,000 for the Dame Kelly Holmes Legacy Trust: and 94 Mecca employees took part in the Great North Run for Marie Curie Cancer Care raising 50,000.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 38 Contributing through the tax system Our communities During the year, we generated 207.8m in taxes, duties building for better and rates in Great Britain, Spain and Belgium see tax fact file, page 43.
This represented 39% of our total costs and During 2012 13, we made a number of important 35% of our revenue.
These funds will have been put to contributions to the economic and social fabrics of the work at both national and local levels to improve communities where we operate: standards of living and quality of life.
By investing capital in adding new venues or enhancing existing venues: By generating income through the tax system for investment at a national and local level: and By supporting employment both directly and indirectly.
Investment in our communities During the year, we invested 21.9m in adding new venues to communities or enhancing the quality of existing ones.
This investment has a number of important community benefits: It raises the level of amenity available: It provides employment during the construction phase: It often attracts additional investment from neighbouring businesses: and It attracts income into a community including the tourism benefits from our London casinos which benefits other retailers.
Supporting employment in our communities During the year, we employed 8,607 team members across Great Britain.
We recognise that employment is not simply critical for the economy and standards of living but also that it serves a fundamental human need.
In addition to the income received, employment offers the opportunity to find contentment through engagement in fulfilling and meaningful tasks.
W ith the acquisition of 19 casinos, the total number of team members employed has risen to 11,000.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 39
