Financial StatementS Notes to the Financial Statements 1.1.
2 Going concern 1 General information and In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the accounting policies consolidated financial statements, the directors have General information considered the issues impacting the Group during the The Rank Group Plc the Company and its subsidiaries period as detailed in the directors report on pages 2 to together the Group operate gaming and betting 47 and have reviewed the Groups projected compliance services in Great Britain including the Channel Islands, with its banking covenants detailed in the finance review Spain, Belgium and Malta.
Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts and operating budgets, and assuming that trading does not The Company is a public limited company which is deteriorate considerably from these projected levels, the listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated directors believe that the Group will generate sufficient and domiciled in England and Wales under registration cash to meet its borrowing requirements for at least the number 03140769.
The address of its registered office is next 12 months and comply with its banking covenants.
Statesman House, Stafferton Way, Maidenhead, Berkshire, SL6 1AY.
3 Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity On 21 October 2011, the Company changed its accounting with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting reference date to 30 June by extending the previous estimates.
It also requires management to exercise accounting period to 18 months to cover the period from its judgement in the process of applying the Groups 1 January 2011 to 30 June 2012.
The current accounting accounting policies.
The resulting accounting estimates period therefore covers the 12-month period to 30 June will, by definition, seldom equal the actual results.
2013 and the comparative period covers the 18-month The areas involving a higher degree of judgement period to 30 June 2012. or complexity, where assumptions and estimates are On 2 April 2013, the Group sold the assets and trademarks significant to the consolidated financial statements, of its Blue Square Bet business.
In accordance with IFRS 5 are set out below.
Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued a Estimated impairment of goodwill, intangible assets Operations the results of this business have been classified and property, plant and equipment as discontinued in both the current and prior periods.
The Group tests annually whether assets that have an Consequently the results of the prior period have been indefinite useful life, including goodwill and gaming restated where appropriate.
licences, have suffered any impairment.
The Group also summary of significant accounting policies reviews assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation The principal accounting policies applied in the for events or changes in circumstances that indicate the preparation of these consolidated financial statements carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.
These policies have been consistently Further details of the Groups accounting policy in applied to all periods presented.
relation to impairment are disclosed in note 1.14.
1.1 Basis of preparation The application of the policy requires the use of The consolidated and Company financial statements have accounting estimates and judgements in determining been prepared under the historical cost convention.
the recoverable amount of cash-generating units to which the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 1.1.
1 Statement of compliance are associated.
The recoverable amount is the higher of The consolidated and Company financial statements have the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Estimates been prepared in accordance with International Financial of fair value less costs to sell are performed internally by Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRIC Interpretations as experienced senior management supported by knowledge adopted by the European Union, and the Companies Act of similar transactions and advice from external estate 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
agents or, if applicable, offers received.
Value in use is calculated using estimated cash flow projections from financial budgets, discounted by selecting an appropriate rate for each cash-generating unit.
Further details of the assumptions and estimates are disclosed in note 13.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 82 b Classification of casino and other gaming licences as f Contingent assets and liabilities intangible assets with an indefinite life Management is required to apply judgement in assessing As disclosed in note 1.13 certain casino and other gaming the probability of the occurrence or non-occurrence of licences have been classified as intangible assets with an one or more uncertain future events not wholly within the indefinite life.
This assumption is based on managements control of the Company.
This judgement is supported by belief that there is no foreseeable limit to the period external advice and precedent case law where appropriate over which the licences are expected to generate net and is continually assessed to ensure that developments cash inflows and that each licence holds a value outside are appropriately reflected in the financial statements.
the property in which it resides.
As a consequence, each Further details of contingent assets are disclosed in note licence is reviewed annually for impairment.
31 and contingent liabilities are disclosed in note 32. c Recoverability of deferred tax assets g Acquisition Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it The Group has made an acquisition during the year.
is probable future taxable profit will be available against Establishing the fair value of the acquired assets and which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The key liabilities, notably the valuation of the casino licences area of judgement is therefore an assessment of whether and property contracts, requires a number of estimates it is probable that there will be suitable taxable profits and judgements to be made.
The main judgements made against which any deferred tax assets can be utilised.
in valuing the casino licences include using estimated Further details of deferred tax assets recognised are cash flow projections, discounted by selecting an disclosed in note 21. appropriate rate.
The main judgement used in valuing property contracts is the estimation of the market value d Income taxes rent at the date of acquisition for each property.
The The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous services of a third party firm of professional valuation jurisdictions, including jurisdictions of now discontinued experts have been used in deriving such valuations.
There are many transactions and calculations note 25 for further details.
for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit 1.1.
4 Changes in accounting policy and disclosures issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes a Standards, amendments to and interpretations will be due.
Where the final outcome of these matters is of existing standards adopted by the Group different from the amount recognised, such differences The following new standards, amendments to and will impact the financial statements in the period such interpretations of existing standards are mandatory for the determination is made.
Further details of income tax are first time for the financial period beginning 1 July 2012. disclosed in note 18.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Transfers e Provisions of Financial Assets Amendment Provisions are recognised in accordance with the policy IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive disclosed in note 1.11.
In calculating onerous property Income Amendment lease provisions, estimates are made of the discounted IAS 12 Income Taxes Amendment Deferred Taxes: cash flows associated with the property and its associated Recovery of Underlying Assets operations including sub-let income.
Estimates have The Group has not been materially impacted by the been made in determining the amount and timing of adoption of any of these standards, amendments or disposal provisions, including legacy industrial disease and interpretations.
Estimates have also been made in determining the amount and likelihood of settlement of The Group has not early adopted any other standard, indirect tax provisions.
Further details of provisions made amendment or interpretation that was issued but is are disclosed in note 22. not yet effective.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 83 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains 1 General information and on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
accounting policies continued Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction b Standards, amendments to and interpretations provides evidence of an impairment of the asset of existing standards that are not yet effective transferred.
Accounting policies as applied to subsidiaries The following standards, amendments to and have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency interpretations of existing standards have been published with the policies adopted by the Group.
and are mandatory for accounting periods starting after 1July 2012: The Group has no material associates or joint ventures.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting 1.3 Business combinations and goodwill Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendments Business combinations are accounted for using the to IFRS7 Effective 1 January 2013: acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and at acquisition date fair value and the amount of any Measurement Effective 1 January 2015: non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
Acquisition costs IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements Effective incurred are expensed and included in administrative 1 January 2014: expenses within exceptional items.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Effective 1 January 2014: IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the Effective 1 January 2014: financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement Effective contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent 1 January 2013: conditions as at the acquisition date.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised Effective 1 January 2013: Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Effective acquirer is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
1 January 2014: Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability Effective 1 January 2013: and are recognised in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Amendment Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess Effective 1 January 2014. of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the It is not anticipated that the adoption of the above net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and standards, amendments and interpretations will have the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business a material impact on the Group or Company financial combination.
Identifiable intangible assets are recognised statements in the period of initial application.
1.2 Consolidation If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the consideration transferred is lower than the fair value of the power to govern the financial and operating policies, assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities in the business generally accompanying a shareholding of more than acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss.
one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
All subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 84 1.4 Revenue recognition b Group companies Revenue consists of the fair value of sales of goods and The results and financial position of all the Group services net of VAT, rebates and discounts.
companies none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency a Gaming win different from the presentation currency are translated Revenue for casinos includes the gaming win before into the presentation currency as follows: deduction of gaming duty.
Revenue for bingo is net of prizes before deduction of gross profits tax.
Revenue for i assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented digital products, including sports betting and interactive are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet games, represents gaming win.
The fair values of free bets, date.
The closing euro rate against UK Sterling was 1.17 promotions and customer bonuses are also deducted from 30 June 2012: 1.24 and the closing US Dollar rate against all revenue streams.
UK Sterling was 1.53 30 June 2012: 1.56 : Although disclosed as revenue, gaming win is accounted ii income and expenses for each income statement are for and meets the definition of a gain under IAS 39 translated at average exchange rates unless this average is Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which b Food and beverage case income and expenses are translated at the rates Revenue from food and beverage sales is recognised at the prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
The average point of sale.
euro rate against UK Sterling was 1.21 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 1.15 and the average US Dollar rate against 1.5 Segment reporting UK Sterling in the period was 1.57 18 months ended Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent 30 June 2012: 1.60 : and with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision iii all resulting exchange differences are recognised as maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and a separate component of equity.
assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the management team the composition of On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the which is disclosed on page 50 that makes strategic and translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and operational decisions.
of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders 1.6 Foreign currency translation equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange The consolidated financial statements are presented in UK differences are recognised in the income statement, net Sterling, which is also the Companys functional currency.
of hedging, as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill Items included in the financial statements of each of and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the the primary economic environment in which the entity foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
1.7 Financial assets a Transactions and balances Financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 are classified Foreign currency transactions are translated into the as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at and receivables, held to maturity investments, available for the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and sale financial assets, or as derivatives designated as hedging losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
The and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of Group determines the classification of its financial assets monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign at initial recognition.
currencies are recognised in the income statement in finance costs or income.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 85 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD a Trade and other payables 1 General information and Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and accounting policies continued subsequently measured at amortised cost using the A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to effective interest method.
receive the cash flows from the asset have expired or been transferred, or an obligation to pay the cash flows received b Loans and borrowings to a third party without material delay has been assumed, After initial recognition at fair value, interest bearing loans and either: and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and Substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have losses are recognised in the income statement when the been transferred: or liabilities are derecognised as well as through the effective Substantially all the risks and rewards have been interest rate method amortisation process.
neither retained nor transferred, but control has Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any been transferred.
discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that The Groups financial assets include loans and receivables are an integral part of the effective interest rate method.
and cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest rate method amortisation is included in finance costs in the income statement.
a Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets c Financial guarantee contracts Company only with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company in an active market.
They are included in current assets, are those contracts that require a payment to be made when the asset is expected to be realised in the normal to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because the operating cycle, otherwise they are classified as nonspecified debtor fails to make a payment when due in current assets.
Loans and receivables are classified as accordance with the terms of a debt instrument.
Financial other receivables in the balance sheet.
guarantee contracts are initially measured at fair value by applying the estimated probability of default to the cash Other receivables are recognised initially at fair value outflow should default occur and subsequently amortised and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the over the expected length of the guarantee.
effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
1.9 Derivative financial instruments and b Cash and cash equivalents hedging activities Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet include The Group held no derivative financial instruments at cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with either reporting date.
an original maturity of three months or less.
1.10 Leases For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash Leases are tested at inception to determine whether equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as the lease is a finance or operating lease and treated defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
For leases entered into prior to 1 January overdrafts are shown within loans and borrowings in 2005, inception is deemed to be 1 January 2005 in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
accordance with the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4.
1.8 Financial liabilities Property leases comprising a lease of land and a lease of Financial liabilities within the scope of IAS 39 are classified buildings within a single contract are split into their two as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, component parts before testing.
loans and borrowings, or as derivatives designated as a Finance leases hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
Leases of property, plant and equipment which transfer The Group determines the classification of its financial substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the liabilities at initial recognition.
Group are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the under the liability is discharged, cancelled, or expires.
fair value of the leased property, plant and equipment or the present value of minimum lease payments.
Each lease The Groups financial liabilities include trade and payment is allocated between the liability and finance other payables, loans and borrowings including bank charges so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest overdrafts, and financial guarantee contracts.
Financial liabilities also include onerous contracts, a policy for which is included in note 1.11.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 86 on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance balance sheet date, and adjusted prospectively, if charges, are included in loans and borrowings.
charges are recognised in the income statement.
Property, An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising or the lease term.
on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference b Operating leases between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying Leases of property, plant and equipment which do amount of the asset is included in the income statement.
not transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of Pre-opening costs are expensed to the income statement ownership to the Group are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments including any lease incentives or premiums are recognised as an expense in the income 1.13 Intangible assets statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
a Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an 1.11 Provisions acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of if it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is will be required to settle the obligation and the amount tested annually for impairment and carried at amortised can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the cost as at 1 January 2004 plus cost for any acquisition best estimate of the expenditures required to settle the completed after 1 January 2004 less accumulated obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax rate entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the the entity sold, except where goodwill has been previously liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the written off directly to reserves under previous GAAP.
provision due to passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Goodwill is allocated to the relevant cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units for the purpose of 1.12 Property, plant and equipment impairment testing.
A cash-generating unit is the smallest Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, net of identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Such cost are largely independent of the cash inflows from other includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the assets or groups of assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate Goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 31 December asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future 1997 has been written off directly to reserves.
economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the b Casino and other gaming licences and concessions Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The Group capitalises acquired casino and other gaming All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the licences and concessions.
Management believes that income statement during the financial period in which licences, with the exception of the two casino concessions they are incurred.
in Belgium, have indefinite lives as there is no foreseeable Depreciation is calculated on assets using the straight line limit to the period over which the licences are expected to method to allocate their cost less residual values over their generate net cash inflows and each licence holds a value estimated useful lives, as follows: outside the property in which it resides.
Each licence is reviewed annually for impairment.
freehold and leasehold 50 years or lease term if less property In respect of the two casino concessions in Belgium, their refurbishment of property 5 to 20 years carrying value is amortised over the expected useful life of the concessions nine years.
fixtures, fittings, plant and 3 to 20 years machinery Any costs in renewing licences or concessions are expensed as incurred.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 87 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the 1 General information and carrying amount of the asset cash-generating unit is accounting policies continued increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, c Other but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on does not exceed the carrying amount that would have the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to been determined had no impairment loss been recognised use the specific software.
These costs are amortised on for the asset cash-generating unit in prior years.
a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives three to four years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised within exceptional items in the income statement immediately.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
1.15 Employee benefit costs Costs that are directly associated with the production a Pension obligations and development of identifiable and unique software The Group operates a defined contribution plan under products controlled by the Group, and that will probably which the Group pays fixed contributions to a separate generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one entity.
The Group has no further payment obligations year, are recognised as intangible assets for both externally once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions purchased and internally developed software.
Direct costs are recognised as employee benefit expense when they include specific employee costs for software development.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets The Group also has an unfunded pension commitment are amortised over their estimated useful lives three to relating to three former executives of the Group.
amount recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the commitment is the present value of the obligation at the 1.14 Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant balance sheet date, together with adjustment for actuarial and equipment gains or losses.
The Group recognises actuarial gains and Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject losses immediately in the statement of comprehensive to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
The net cost arising on the commitment is Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for recognised in net finance costs.
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
b Share-based compensation The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees An impairment loss is recognised as the amount by which for awards granted after 7 November 2002 is measured an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
by reference to the fair value at the date on which they The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair are granted.
The fair value is determined by using an value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes appropriate pricing model, further details of which are of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest given in note 28. levels for which there are separately identifiable cash inflows cash-generating units.
The expected cash flows The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, generated by the assets are discounted using appropriate together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the discount rates that reflect the time value of money and period in which the performance and or service conditions risks associated with the groups of assets.
The cumulative expense recognised for equitysettled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting If an impairment loss is recognised, the carrying amount date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has of the asset cash-generating unit is reduced to its expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
The income as an exceptional expense in the income statement statement expense or credit for a period represents the immediately.
movement in cumulative expense recognised as at the beginning and end of that period.
Any impairment is allocated equally across all assets in a cash-generating unit unless there is an indication that a No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately class of assets should be impaired in the first instance or vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting a fair market value exists for one or more assets.
Once an is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, asset has been written down to its fair value less costs to sell then any remaining impairment is allocated equally amongst all other assets.
Casino licences are generally not impaired as they have an indefinite life and a fair market value in excess of their carrying value.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 88 which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not c Share-based compensation Company the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided The Company operates share-based payment schemes for that all other performance and or service conditions employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
value of shares awarded to employees of the Company is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are increase in equity.
The Company also makes awards of its modified, the minimum expense recognised is the expense own shares to employees of its subsidiaries and as such as if the terms had not been modified, if the original terms recognises an increase in the cost of investment in its of the award are met.
An additional expense is recognised subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based for any modification that increases the total fair value payment charge recognised in its subsidiaries financial of the share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise statements with the corresponding credit being recognised beneficial to the employee as measured at the date of directly in equity.
When an award is modified from an equity-settled to a Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated cash-settled basis, the Company retains the obligation as if it vested on the date of cancellation, and any to settle such awards.
Consequently on the recognition expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised of a liability by the parent, the corresponding debit immediately.
This includes any award where non-vesting is recognised directly in equity.
In the event that conditions within the control of either the entity or subsidiaries of the Company settle the obligation on the the employee are not met.
However, if a new award is parent companys behalf, such a payment is treated as a substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as distribution to the parent.
a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a d Bonus plans modification of the original award, as described in the The Group recognises a liability in respect of the best previous paragraph.
All cancellations of equity-settled estimate of bonuses payable where it is contractually transaction awards are treated equally.
obliged to do so or where a past practice has created a constructive obligation.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of diluted 1.16 Inventories earnings per share.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of inventory is determined on The proceeds received net of any directly attributable a first-in first-out basis.
transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
The cost of finished goods comprises goods purchased for resale.
The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value with the recognition of a corresponding liability.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the The liability is re-measured to fair value at each reporting ordinary course of business.
When necessary, provision date up to and including the settlement date.
is made for obsolete and slow-moving inventories.
When an award is modified from an equity-settled to a 1.17 Taxation cash-settled basis, the total expense recognised comprises a Current tax the total of the grant date fair value that would have been Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior recognised under the original equity-settled basis, any periods are measured as the amount expected to be paid or incremental fair value arising from the modification to be recovered from the taxation authorities.
The tax rates of the award and any re-measurement of the liability and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that between its fair value at the modification date and the are enacted or substantively enacted, by the reporting date.
If the amount of the liability Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity recognised on modification is higher than the amount is recognised in equity and not the income statement.
previously recognised as an increase in equity then the increase in the liability is recognised as a debit to equity.
Management evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation at each reporting date and establishes provisions where appropriate.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 89 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 1.18 Share capital 1 General information and accounting policies Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
continued b Deferred tax Where any Group company purchases the Companys Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on equity share capital treasury shares as defined by IAS 32, temporary differences arising between the tax bases of the consideration paid, including any directly attributable assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the incremental costs net of income taxes, is deducted from financial statements.
However, if deferred tax arises equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are transaction, other than a business combination, that at subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor net of any directly attributable incremental transaction taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax costs and the related income tax effects, is included in is determined using tax rates and laws that have been equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date 1.19 Discontinued operations and assets held and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax for sale asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Operations of the Group are recognised as discontinued Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is operations if the operations have been disposed of or meet probable that future taxable profit will be available against the criteria to be classified as held for sale and represent which the temporary differences can be utilised.
a separate major line of business or geographic area of operations.
Operations held for sale are held at the lower Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is of their carrying amount on the dates they are classified a legally enforceable right to set off current taxation assets as held for sale and fair value less costs to sell.
against current taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these on a net basis.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising through a sale transaction rather than through continuing on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the where the timing of the reversal of the temporary sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
that the temporary difference will not reverse in the Management must be committed to the sale which should foreseeable future.
be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
c Sales tax Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the 1.20 Dividends amount of sales tax except: Dividends proposed by the board of directors and unpaid Where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or at the period end are not recognised in the financial services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, statements until they have been approved by shareholders in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the at the annual general meeting.
Interim dividends are cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense recognised when paid.
item as applicable: and 1.21 Exceptional items Receivables and payables that are stated with the The Group defines exceptional items as those items which, amount of sales tax included.
by their size or nature in relation to both the Group or individual segments, are separately disclosed in order The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to give a full understanding of the Groups financial to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables performance and aid comparability of the Groups results or payables in the balance sheet.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 90 2 Segmental reporting a segment information operating segments 12 months ended 30 june 2013 Grosvenor Casinos mecca enracha Central venues Digital venues Digital venues Digital costs Total m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Group revenue reported in internal information 290.5 9.8 234.9 61.3 28.5 625.0 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 3.7 2.2 14.2 8.7 28.8 segment revenue 286.8 7.6 220.7 52.6 28.5 596.2 Operating profit loss before shared service allocation and exceptional items 54.5 2.4 28.9 28.1 1.6 0.5 45.1 69.9 Shared service allocation 5.0 4.5 5.9 7.0 0.4 22.8 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 49.5 2.1 23.0 21.1 1.6 0.9 22.3 69.9 Exceptional loss profit 15.0 2.0 0.3 1.0 17.7 segment result 34.5 2.1 21.0 21.1 1.9 0.9 22.3 52.2 Finance costs 9.4 Finance income 0.2 Other financial losses 0.3 Profit before taxation 42.7 Taxation 13.8 Profit for the period from continuing operations 28.9 Other segment items continuing operations Capital expenditure 21.1 0.4 9.1 0.8 1.4 6.2 39.0 Depreciation and amortisation 17.7 1.5 14.6 1.5 2.4 1.2 38.9 Impairment charge 3.7 1.6 4.1 9.4 Impairment reversal 3.6 0.7 4.4 8.7 Charge from provision for onerous lease 0.1 1.1 0.3 1.5 Share-based payment charge 0.2 0.2 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 91 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 2 Segmental reporting continued 18 months ended 30 June 2012 restated Grosvenor Casinos Mecca Enracha Central Venues Digital Venues Digital Venues Digital costs Total m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Group revenue reported in internal information 379.2 7.5 359.5 80.3 44.1 870.6 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 2.5 1.6 22.1 10.2 36.4 segment revenue 376.7 5.9 337.4 70.1 44.1 834.2 Operating profit loss before shared service allocation and exceptional items 69.7 1.7 52.7 39.4 1.6 1.9 62.0 101.2 Shared service allocation 6.7 6.3 8.2 9.3 0.3 30.8 Operating profit loss before exceptional items 63.0 4.6 44.5 30.1 1.6 2.2 31.2 101.2 Exceptional loss profit 7.5 73.9 15.9 1.8 0.6 48.1 segment result 55.5 4.6 118.4 30.1 14.3 4.0 31.8 149.3 Finance costs 8.5 Finance income 81.9 Other financial losses 0.4 Profit before taxation 222.3 Taxation 53.8 Profit for the period from continuing operations 168.5 Other segment items continuing operations Capital expenditure 43.6 0.2 20.3 0.4 5.1 0.9 9.4 79.9 Depreciation and amortisation 21.6 2.3 23.3 2.4 3.7 1.6 54.9 Impairment charge 1.5 1.3 14.7 1.8 19.3 Impairment reversal 0.7 3.0 3.7 Net charge from provision for onerous lease including change in discount rate 0.6 6.6 1.7 8.9 Share-based payment charge 0.1 0.2 0.1 1.3 1.7 The Group has changed the basis of its segmental reporting from that reported in the financial statements to 30 June 2012.
To ensure that the organisation better reflects our customers needs the Group has changed the way that it manages its business, moving from a channel-led approach to a brand-led approach, with a single member of the executive committee responsible for each of the brands.
This means the results of the Groups digital channel previously reported as Rank Interactive are now reported under the Grosvenor Casinos, Mecca and Enracha brands.
Enracha is the new brand for our Spanish operations, previously reported as Top Rank Espana.
The results of Blue Square Bet are presented as discontinued operations see note 5.
The shared service allocation represents those costs incurred centrally but which can be directly attributed to a specific segment.
Assets and liabilities have not been segmented as this information is not provided to the chief operating decision maker on a regular basis.
Capital expenditure comprises expenditure on property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets, including those acquired under finance leases.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 92 b Geographical information The Group operates in two main geographical areas UK and Continental Europe.
i Revenue from external customers by geographical area based on location of customer 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 30 june 2012 2013 restated m m UK 552.9 766.5 Continental Europe 43.3 67.7 Total revenue 596.2 834.2 ii Non-current assets by geographical area based on location of assets as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m UK 585.1 334.6 Continental Europe 42.3 40.8 Segment non-current assets 627.4 375.4 Unallocated assets: Deferred tax assets 2.6 3.5 Total non-current assets 630.0 378.9 With the exception of the UK no individual country contributed more than 10% of consolidated sales or assets.
c Total revenue and profit from continuing and discontinued operations Revenue Profit loss 18 months 18 months 12 months ended 12 months ended ended 30 June ended 30 June 30 june 2012 30 june 2012 2013 restated 2013 restated Note m m m m From continuing operations 596.2 834.2 28.9 168.5 From discontinued operations 5 9.5 20.7 1.9 1.0 605.7 854.9 27.0 167.5 d Total cost analysis by segment The directors are of the opinion that a cost analysis for the 12 months to 30 June 2013 and the 18 months to 30 June 2012 would not provide meaningful information to the users of the financial statements.
However, to increase transparency the Group has provided additional disclosure analysing total costs by type and segment for the 12 months to 30 June 2013 and the 12 months to 30 June 2012 in the unaudited appendix to the financial statements on pages 134 to 142.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 93 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 3 Profit for the period analysis by nature The following items have been charged credited in arriving at the profit for the period before financing and taxation from continuing operations: 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 Note m m Employee benefit expense 181.9 265.1 Cost of inventories recognised as expense 24.3 32.9 Amortisation of intangibles including 1.4m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 1.2m within cost of sales 4.5 7.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment owned assets including 29.7m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 41.3m within cost of sales 31.3 44.0 under finance leases included within cost of sales 3.1 3.9 Operating lease rentals payable minimum lease payments 43.5 64.8 sub-lease income 4.0 6.5 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.7 Exceptional operating costs 4 17.7 36.8 Exceptional operating income 4 84.9 Auditors remuneration for audit services 0.4 0.4 In the period, the Groups auditor Ernst & Young LLP, including its network firms, earned the following fees: 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.2 Other services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.2 0.2 tax services 0.2 0.3 transaction support services 0.1 0.5 other services 0.1 0.7 1.3 23,000 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 22,000 of the audit fees related to the parent company.
It is the Groups policy to balance the need to maintain auditor independence with the benefit of taking advice from the leading firm in the area concerned and the desirability of being efficient.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 94 4 Exceptional items 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 Note m m exceptional items relating to continuing operations Impairment charges 11,12,13 9.4 19.3 Impairment reversals 11,12,13 8.7 3.7 Net charge from provision for onerous leases 22 1.5 8.9 Bid response costs 4.3 Acquisition and integration costs 8.5 5.0 Restructuring costs 3.0 Charge to provision for indirect taxation 6.4 Charge to accruals for indirect taxation 0.6 exceptional operating costs 17.7 36.8 VAT refunds net of gross profits tax and associated costs 84.9 exceptional operating income 84.9 Finance income 6 81.0 Finance costs 6 4.2 Taxation 7 2.7 26.5 exceptional items relating to continuing operations 19.2 102.6 exceptional items relating to discontinued operations Additional profit arising on previously disposed subsidiary undertakings 2.2 Change in discount rates for disposal provisions 0.3 Charge to provision for indirect taxation 5.8 Disposal of Blue Square Bet and related costs 2.0 Finance income 6 1.2 2.7 Finance costs 6 0.6 Taxation 7 10.9 1.2 exceptional items relating to discontinued operations 3.7 3.4 Total exceptional items 15.5 106.0 12-month period ended 30 june 2013 exceptional items Continuing operations Impairment charges The Group recognised an impairment charge of 3.4m in the UK of which 1.8m relates to Grosvenor Casinos venues and 1.6m to Mecca venues.
The only individually significant charges in Grosvenor Casinos venues are 1.1m in respect of a non-operating licence, to reflect local market conditions, and 0.5m in respect of an E-casino which has not performed in line with expectations.
The only individually significant charge in Mecca venues is 0.6m in respect of a club which has not performed in line with expectations.
A further impairment charge of 1.9m has been recognised in respect of a casino in Belgium and 4.1m in respect of two clubs in the Enracha venues business which have not performed in line with expectations.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 95 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 4 Exceptional items continued Impairment reversals The Group has reversed previous impairment charges of 1.9m in the UK, of which 1.2m relates to Grosvenor Casinos venues and 0.7m relates to Mecca venues.
The reversal in Grosvenor Casinos is in respect of two casinos where changes in the competitive environment have led to improvements in performance.
The reversal in Mecca venues is in respect of three clubs which have seen a sustained improvement in performance and an uplift in the freehold value of a further property.
A further reversal of 2.4m has been made in respect of a casino in Belgium, which has shown improved performance following agreement of a third party digital licence agreement.
The Enracha venues business has had an impairment reversal of 4.4m following better than expected recovery from the effects of the smoking ban at two venues.
Onerous leases The Group recognised a charge of 1.5m in relation to provisions for onerous leases during the period.
A charge of 1.1m has been made in respect of one Mecca lease where the unavoidable costs exceed the expected income.
The remaining charge of 0.4m is in respect of sites where there has been a change in expected sub-let income as a consequence of the financial position of associated tenants.
Acquisition and integration costs During the period the Group acquired 19 casinos and 3 non-operating licences from Gala Coral Group Limited see note 25.
The Group has expensed the costs of the acquisition and resulting integration incurred during the period of 8.5m.
Further details are provided in the table below: 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Acquisition costs 7.4 5.0 Loss on disposal of Edinburgh non-operating casino licence 0.4 Integration costs 0.7 Total 8.5 5.0 The disposal of the Edinburgh non-operating licence was required in order to obtain Competition Commission clearance for the acquisition.
Acquisition costs represent professional fees incurred, including the costs of dealing with the Office of Fair Trading and the Competition Commission.
The Group expects to incur further integration costs of approximately 1.5m in the 2013 14 financial year.
Indirect taxation The Group has recognised a provision of 6.4m and an accrual of 0.6m in relation to a historic indirect taxation issue.
The amount represents the directors best estimate of the cash outflow likely to arise.
Discontinued exceptional items Indirect taxation The Group has recognised a provision of 5.8m in relation to a historic indirect taxation issue in the Blue Square Bet business.
Disposal of Blue Square Bet and related costs On 2 April 2013, the Group agreed terms to sell the assets and trademarks of its loss-making Blue Square Bet business for consideration of 5.0m.
The Blue Square Bet business operated solely in the digital channel of the highly competitive sports betting market.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 96 The table below provides further details of the net exceptional loss of 2.0m recognised in respect of the disposal and relatedcosts: 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Proceeds received 5.0 Impairment of assets 3.6 Redundancy and restructuring costs 2.5 Onerous contracts 0.9 Exceptional loss 2.0 18-month period ended 30 june 2012-exceptional items Continuing operations Impairment charges Following the introduction of a full smoking ban at the start of the period and the difficult economic conditions in Spain, animpairment charge of 14.7m was recognised.
The Group also recognised an impairment charge of 2.8m in the UK, of which 1.5m related to Grosvenor Casinos venues and 1.3m to Mecca venues.
The only individually significant charge of 0.8m was in respect of an E-casino.
The club had not performed in line with expectations and closed on 15 February 2012.
The investment in the development of the online Spanish gaming brand was fully impaired by 1.8m as legislation had not developed as anticipated.
Impairment reversals The Group reversed previous impairment charges of 3.7m, of which 3.0m related to Mecca venues and 0.7m to Grosvenor Casinos venues.
The reversal in Mecca was in respect of five venues where performance had seen a sustained improvement following conversion to the Full House concept or competitor closure and the reclassification of one freehold property to held for sale assets at its fair value less costs to sell see note 12.
The reversal in Grosvenor Casinos followed the successful conversion of one casino to the G Casino concept.
Onerous leases The Group recognised a net charge of 8.9m in relation to provision for onerous leases in the period.
This included a charge of 4.8m as a consequence of a reduction in the discount rate used on existing provisions.
The total charge also included 2.2m in respect of unavoidable rental payments resulting from the restructuring activities outlined below.
A further 1.2m was recognised in respect of one Mecca venue where expected income no longer exceeded the unavoidable costs, and the remainder of 1.3m was in respect of sites in which there had been a reduction in expected sub-let income as a consequence of the financial position of the associated tenants.
The Group also released 0.6m in relation to Grosvenor Casinos following the favourable settlement of a number of lease obligations arising from previously closed casinos.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 97 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 4 Exceptional items continued Bid response costs During the period, the Group recognised an exceptional cost of 4.3m relating to the professional fees and other related costs for the response to the Guoco Group Limited offer for the shares of the Company see also note 33.
Transaction costs On 12 May 2012, the Group announced it had conditionally agreed to acquire Gala Casinos from Gala Coral Group Limited.
The Group recognised the costs of the proposed acquisition committed at 30 June 2012 of 5.0m as an exceptional cost.
Restructuring costs During the period, the Group recognised an exceptional cost of 3.0m relating to the closure of six Mecca venues, three Grosvenor Casinos venues and continued restructuring of Enracha.
VAT refunds net of associated costs During the period, the Group received 88.1m in overpaid VAT from HMRC, together with associated interest of 81.0m.
The repayment covered VAT paid on games of interval and main stage bingo between 1973 and 1996, main stage bingo between 2003 and 2004 and on the disposal of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme in 2008.
The interval and main stage bingo repayments followed successive rulings in the Groups favour in both the First tier Tribunal and Upper Tribunal or High Court.
HMRC appealed these decisions and as a result the case was referred to the European Court of Justice ECJ.
On 10 November 2011, the ECJ released its findings on the Groups VAT case on fiscal neutrality.
The Group and HMRC have agreed that the ECJ found in favour of the Group on its bingo claims.
The ECJ also ruled on the Groups amusement machines claim relating to a claim for overpaid VAT on amusement machines.
The ECJs decision on the amusement machines claim was not conclusive and was therefore referred back to the UK courts, further details of which are provided in note 32.
Further details of the exceptional gain arising on the VAT repayments are disclosed in the table below: Interval and Main stage bingo main stage bingo VAT on 2003 to 2004 1973 to 1996 pensions Total m m m m Cash repayment received 7.1 74.8 6.2 88.1 Costs, including contingent fees, irrecoverable VAT and related bonuses 0.6 1.8 0.8 3.2 Exceptional gain before financing and taxation 6.5 73.0 5.4 84.9 Finance income 1.4 79.5 0.1 81.0 Taxation 2.0 33.0 35.0 Total exceptional gain on vaT refund 5.9 119.5 5.5 130.9 Discontinued exceptional items Additional net profit arising on previously disposed subsidiary undertakings During the period, the Group also recognised an exceptional profit of 2.2m, together with associated interest of 2.7m, following the successful outcome of certain VAT claims relating to previously disposed subsidiary undertakings.
In addition a charge of 0.3m was recognised in respect of the reduction in discount rate used on provisions connected with previously disposed subsidiary undertakings.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 98 5 Discontinued operations In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, the results of the Blue Square Bet business have been classified as discontinued in both the current and prior periods.
Discontinued operations, other than those disclosed within exceptional items see note 4, relate to the disposal of the loss making Blue Square Bet business.
A breakdown of results of this operation is shown below.
12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Revenue 9.5 20.7 Operating loss 7.4 6.2 Taxation 1.8 1.8 Loss after taxation 5.6 4.4 Other information: Depreciation and amortisation 1.4 2.3 Capital expenditure 1.1 0.8 Cash flows relating to discontinued operations are as follows: 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Operating loss 7.4 6.2 Depreciation and amortisation 1.4 2.3 Cash payments in respect of exceptional items 2.0 Cash flows from operating activities 8.0 3.9 Cash flows from investing activities 1.1 0.8 Cash flows from financing activities 9.1 4.7 The disposal of the Blue Square Bet business has given rise to the following cash flow reported in investing activities: 12 months ended 30 june 2013 m Gross cash consideration received 5.0 Payment to purchaser for customer account balances disposed 2.6 Disposal of business 2.4 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 99 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 6 Financing 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Continuing operations: Finance costs: 1 Interest on debt and borrowings 1.9 4.0 1 Amortisation of issue costs on borrowings 1.1 0.4 Interest payable on finance leases 0.9 1.6 Unwinding of discount in onerous lease provisions 1.1 2.1 Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.2 0.4 Total finance costs 5.2 8.5 Finance income: 1 Interest income on short term bank deposits 0.2 0.9 Finance income 0.2 0.9 Other financial losses 0.3 0.4 Total net financing charge for continuing operations before exceptional items 5.3 8.0 Exceptional finance income 81.0 Exceptional finance costs 4.2 Total net financing charge income for continuing operations 9.5 73.0 Discontinued operations: Exceptional finance income 1.2 2.7 Exceptional finance costs 0.6 Total net finance income for discontinued operations 0.6 2.7 Total financing charge income 8.9 75.7 1 Calculated using the effective interest method.
Exceptional finance costs recognised in continuing operations in the year of 4.2m are in respect of direct and indirect taxation balances provided for.
Exceptional discontinued finance income recognised in the year of 1.2m is in respect of an expected tax refund attributable to discontinued activities.
Exceptional discontinued finance costs recognised in the year of 0.6m are in respect of indirect taxation balances providedfor.
Further details of the prior period exceptional finance income are disclosed in note 4.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 100 A reconciliation of total net financing charge to adjusted net interest included in adjusted profit is disclosed below: 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Total net financing charge for continuing operations before exceptional items 5.3 8.0 Adjust for: Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.2 0.4 Other financial losses including foreign exchange 0.3 0.4 adjusted net interest payable 4.8 7.2 Details of financing for the 12 months to 30 June 2013 and the 12 months to 30 June 2012 are provided in the unaudited appendix to the financial statements on pages 134 to 142.
7 Taxation 12 months ended 30 june 2013 18 months ended 30 June 2012 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations Total restated restated Total m m m m m m Current income tax Current income tax UK 12.7 1.8 10.9 7.6 1.8 5.8 Current income tax overseas 0.6 0.6 0.8 0.8 Current income tax charge credit 13.3 1.8 11.5 8.4 1.8 6.6 Current income tax on exceptional items 3.1 0.4 3.5 38.5 1.1 39.6 Amounts over provided in previous period 1.3 1.3 Amounts under over provided in previous period on exceptional items 0.3 10.7 10.4 7.0 0.1 6.9 Total current income tax charge credit 9.2 12.9 3.7 39.9 0.6 39.3 Deferred tax Deferred tax UK 3.0 3.0 18.1 18.1 Deferred tax overseas 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 Restatement of deferred tax from 24.0% to 23.0% 1.1 1.1 Deferred tax on exceptional items 0.1 0.1 5.0 5.0 Amounts under over provided in previous period 1.3 1.3 0.2 0.2 Amounts under provided in previous period on exceptional items 0.2 0.2 Total deferred tax charge note 21 4.6 0.2 4.8 13.9 13.9 Tax charge credit in the income statement 13.8 12.7 1.1 53.8 0.6 53.2 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 101 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 7 Taxation continued The tax on the Groups profit before taxation on continuing operations differs from the standard rate of UK corporation tax in the period of 23.75% 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 26.0%.
The differences are explained below: 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 30 june 2012 2013 restated m m Profit before taxation on continuing operations 42.7 222.3 Tax charge calculated at 23.75% on profit before taxation on continuing operations 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 26.0% 10.1 57.8 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 3.1 2.6 Difference in overseas tax rates 0.3 Restatement of deferred tax from 24.0% to 23.0% 1.1 Adjustments relating to prior periods 0.3 7.2 Deferred tax not recognised in period 0.3 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 0.2 Tax charge in the income statement on continuing operations 13.8 53.8 Tax on exceptional items continuing operations The taxation impacts of continuing exceptional items are disclosed below: 12 months ended 30 june 2013 18 months ended 30 June 2012 Current Current income tax Deferred tax Total income tax Deferred tax Total m m m m m m Impairment charges 0.7 0.7 4.5 4.5 Impairment reversals 0.8 0.8 0.1 0.1 0.2 Net charge from provision for onerous leases 0.4 0.4 2.4 2.4 Acquisition and integration costs 0.5 0.5 Restructuring costs 1.2 0.6 1.8 Charge for indirect taxation 1.7 1.7 VAT refund net of gross profits tax and associated costs 35.0 35.0 Exceptional finance costs 0.6 0.6 Amounts under provided in respect of previous years 0.4 0.4 Tax credit charge on exceptional items continuing operations 2.8 0.1 2.7 31.5 5.0 26.5 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 102 Tax on exceptional items discontinued operations The taxation impacts of discontinued exceptional items are disclosed below: 12 months ended 30 june 2013 18 months ended 30 June 2012 Current Current income tax Deferred tax Total income tax Deferred tax Total m m m m m m Tax refunds arising on previously disposed  6.6 0.2 6.4 Provision for indirect taxation 1.6 1.6 Disposal of Blue Square Bet and related costs 1.1 1.1 Release of provisions relating to overseas tax audits 2.1 2.1 VAT refunds 1.2 1.2 Finance income 0.3 0.3 Tax credit charge on exceptional items discontinued operations 11.1 0.2 10.9 1.2 1.2 Tax effect of items within other comprehensive income 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Current income tax credit on exchange movements offset in reserves 0.2 0.6 Deferred tax credit on actuarial movement on retirement benefits 0.1 Total tax credit on items within other comprehensive income 0.2 0.7 The credit in respect of employee share schemes included within the Statement of Changes in Equity includes a deferred tax credit of 0.3m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 0.2m and a current tax credit of 0.2m 18 months ended 30 June 2012:0.7m.
Factors affecting future taxation UK corporation tax is calculated at 23.75% 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 26% of the estimated assessable profit for the period.
Taxation for overseas operations is calculated at the local prevailing rates.
On 20 March 2013, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced the reduction in the main rate of UK corporation tax to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and a further 1% reduction to 20% from 1 April 2015.
These changes were substantively enacted in July 2013.
The rate reductions will reduce the amount of cash tax payments to be made by the Group.
Overall the reduction in the corporate tax rate from 23% to 20% is expected to reduce the Groups net UK deferred tax liability by approximately 3.0m.
8 Results attributable to the parent company The Company has elected to take the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the parent company income statement.
The loss for the 12 months ended 30 June 2013 for the Company was 27.2m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: profit of 123.5m.
The prior year profit included an impairment reversal of 157.5m in respect of its investment in subsidiary undertakings.
Further details are provided in note 14.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 103 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 9 Dividends paid to equity holders 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Final for 2010 paid on 4 May 2011 1.66p per share 6.5 1st Interim for 2011 12 paid on 12 September 2011 1.00p per share 3.9 2nd Interim for 2011 12 paid on 29 March 2012 1.10p per share 4.3 Final for 2011 12 paid on 31 October 2012 2.50p per share 9.8 Interim for 2012 13 paid on 22 March 2013 1.25p per share 4.9 Refund of unclaimed dividends 0.1 14.6 14.7 A final dividend in respect of the 12 months ended 30 June 2013 of 2.85p per share, amounting to a total dividend of 11.1m, is to be recommended at the annual general meeting on 17 October 2013.
These financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
10 Earnings per share a Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period.
12 months ended 30 june 2013 18 months ended 30 June 2012 restated Before Before exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Profit attributable to equity shareholders Continuing operations 48.1m 19.2 m 28.9m 65.9m 102.6m 168.5m Discontinued operations 5.6 m 3.7m 1.9 m 4.4 m 3.4m 1.0 m Total 42.5m 15.5 m 27.0m 61.5m 106.0m 167.5m weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 390.6m 390.6m 390.6m 390.3m 390.3m 390.3m Basic earnings per share Continuing operations 12.3p 4.9 p 7.4p 16.9p 26.3p 43.2p Discontinued operations 1.4 p 0.9p 0.5 p 1.1 p 0.9p 0.2 p Total 10.9p 4.0 p 6.9p 15.8p 27.2p 43.0p b Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The only category of dilutive potential ordinary shares is share options.
For share options, a calculation is made to determine the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value determined as the average annual market share price of the Companys shares based on the monetary value of the subscription rights attached to outstanding share options.
The number of shares calculated is compared with the number of shares that would have been issued assuming exercise of the share options.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 104 There is no difference in the profit used to determine diluted earnings per share from that used to determine basic earnings per share.
The potential dilutive impact of share options on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue and diluted earnings per share is shown below.
12 months ended 30 june 2013 18 months ended 30 June 2012 restated Before Before exceptional exceptional exceptional Exceptional items items Total items items Total Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 390.6m 390.6m 390.6m 390.3m 390.3m 390.3m Dilutive potential ordinary shares 0.2m 0.2m 0.2m 390.6m 390.6m 390.6m 390.5m 390.5m 390.5m Diluted earnings per share Continuing operations 12.3p 4.9 p 7.4p 16.8p 26.3p 43.1p Discontinued operations 1.4 p 0.9p 0.5 p 1.1 p 0.9p 0.2 p Total 10.9p 4.0 p 6.9p 15.7p 27.2p 42.9p c adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings is calculated by adjusting profit attributable to equity shareholders to exclude discontinued operations, exceptional items, other financial gains or losses, unwinding of the discount in disposal provisions and the related tax effects.
Adjusted earnings is one of the business performance measures used internally by management to manage the operations of the business.
Management believes that the adjusted earnings measure assists in providing a view of the underlying performance of the business.
Adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders is derived as follows: 18 months 12 months ended ended 30 June 30 june 2012 2013 restated m m Profit attributable to equity shareholders 27.0 167.5 Adjusted for: Discontinued operations net of taxation 1.9 1.0 Exceptional items after tax on continuing operations 19.2 102.6 Other financial losses 0.3 0.4 Unwinding of discount in disposal provisions 0.2 0.4 Taxation on adjusted items and impact of reduction in tax rate 0.1 1.0 adjusted net earnings attributable to equity shareholders m 48.5 67.7 adjusted earnings per share p basic 12.4p 17.3p adjusted earnings per share p diluted 12.4p 17.3p Details of adjusted earnings per share for the 12 months to 30 June 2013 and the 12 months to 30 June 2012 are provided in the unaudited appendix to the financial statements on pages 134 to 142.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 105 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 11 Intangible assets Casino and other gaming licences and Property Goodwill concessions contracts Other Total Group m m m m m Cost at 1 january 2011 53.4 122.7 39.4 215.5 Exchange adjustments 2.7 2.7 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Additions 10.5 10.5 at 30 june 2012 53.4 120.0 49.8 223.2 Acquisition of subsidiary see note 25 78.5 155.8 3.7 238.0 Exchange adjustments 2.7 2.7 Disposals 23.4 23.4 Additions 0.5 6.7 7.2 at 30 june 2013 131.9 279.0 3.7 33.1 447.7 aggregate amortisation and impairment at 1 january 2011 19.7 28.4 48.1 Exchange adjustments 2.2 2.2 Charge for the year 1.1 7.7 8.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Impairment charges 13.1 1.8 14.9 at 30 june 2012 31.7 37.8 69.5 Exchange adjustments 1.8 1.8 Charge for the period 0.8 0.1 4.8 5.7 Disposals 23.4 23.4 Impairment charges 4.9 3.5 8.4 Impairment reversals 6.8 6.8 at 30 june 2013 32.4 0.1 22.7 55.2 Net book value at 31 December 2010 53.4 103.0 11.0 167.4 Net book value at 30 June 2012 53.4 88.3 12.0 153.7 net book value at 30 june 2013 131.9 246.6 3.6 10.4 392.5 Other intangible assets comprise other licences, computer software and development technology and customer lists.
These include internally-generated computer software and development technology with a net book value of 4.7m 30 June 2012: 3.8m.
Property contracts arise as a fair value adjustment in respect of favourable property contracts on the acquisition of the 19 Gala Casinos.
Indefinite life intangible assets have been reviewed for impairment as set out in note 13.
Impairment charges for the year of 8.4m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 14.9m include 4.8m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 14.9m in respect of exceptional items relating to continuing operations and 3.6m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: nil in respect of exceptional items relating to discontinued operations.
The exceptional impairment charge relating to discontinued operations arose on the disposal of the Blue Square Bet business during the year.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 106 12 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, fittings, Land and plant and buildings machinery Total Group m m m Cost at 1 january 2011 135.8 392.7 528.5 Exchange adjustments 0.8 3.4 4.2 Additions 3.5 65.7 69.2 Disposals 3.4 15.0 18.4 Transfer to assets held for sale 3.9 3.9 at 30 june 2012 131.2 440.0 571.2 Exchange adjustments 0.7 3.2 3.9 Acquisition of subsidiary see note 25 7.6 11.2 18.8 Additions 2.1 30.8 32.9 Disposals 0.5 11.1 11.6 Transfer to assets held for sale 2.2 2.2 at 30 june 2013 138.9 474.1 613.0 accumulated depreciation and impairment at 1 january 2011 72.9 252.6 325.5 Exchange adjustments 0.1 2.2 2.3 Charge for the period 4.8 43.6 48.4 Impairment charge 1.1 3.3 4.4 Impairment reversals 1.7 2.0 3.7 Disposals 2.8 14.1 16.9 Transfer to assets held for sale 2.0 2.0 at 30 june 2012 72.2 281.2 353.4 Exchange adjustments 0.1 2.4 2.5 Charge for the period 3.4 31.3 34.7 Impairment charges 0.4 4.2 4.6 Impairment reversals 1.3 0.6 1.9 Disposals 10.4 10.4 Transfer to assets held for sale 1.9 1.9 at 30 june 2013 72.9 308.1 381.0 Net book value at 31 December 2010 62.9 140.1 203.0 Net book value at 30 June 2012 59.0 158.8 217.8 net book value at 30 june 2013 66.0 166.0 232.0 Impairment charges for the year of 4.6m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 4.4m are in respect of exceptional items relating to continuing operations.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 107 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 12 Property, plant and equipment continued Finance leases The net book value of property, plant and equipment held under finance leases was: as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Land and buildings 5.5 6.1 Fixtures, fittings, plant and machinery 5.8 7.5 net book value at end of period 11.3 13.6 There were 0.8m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 9.2m of additions under finance leases during the period.
Borrowing costs There were no qualifying assets in either period and therefore no borrowing costs have been capitalised in either period.
assets under construction Included in property, plant and equipment are assets in the course of construction of 1.9m.
There were no material assets in the course of construction at 30 June 2012. assets held for sale As at As at 30 June 30 June 2013 2012 m m Land and buildings 0.3 1.9 Assets held for sale comprise a single freehold property in respect of a closed venue within Mecca.
It is expected that this property will be sold for its carrying value within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
The asset held for sale in the prior period, which comprised a single freehold property in Mecca, was sold during the period at its carrying value.
Consequently, no profit or loss arose on this disposal.
13 Impairment review The pre-tax discount rate applied to all cash flow projections is 10.0% 30 June 2012: 11.0%.
The discount rate calculation is based on the specific circumstances of the Group and its cash generating units and is derived from its weighted average cost of capital.
Management believes that the discount rate is appropriate for each cash-generating unit CGU as they operate in gaming markets with similar risks as set out below.
As the Group operates in Great Britain including the Channel Islands, Spain and Belgium, country risk has been recognised in the cash flow forecasts, rather than adjusting the discount rate.
a impairment review of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
In accordance with IAS 36, goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment.
In addition, the Group classifies casino licences with the exception of its concessions in Belgium and Spanish bingo licences as intangible assets with an indefinite life.
i Goodwill At 30 June 2013, the Group has goodwill with a carrying value of 131.9m 30 June 2012: 53.4m.
78.5m of this goodwill arose on the acquisition of 19 Gala casinos during the year, further details of which are provided in note 25.
Given the proximity of this acquisition to the year end an impairment review has not been carried out on this element of goodwill.
The remaining 53.4m of goodwill arose on the acquisition of Rank Digital Limited formerly Blue Square Limited, which formed the basis of the Rank Interactive business.
In accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, following the change in the basis of segmental reporting the Group no longer considers Rank Interactive to be a CGU.
On the date of change in segmental reporting this goodwill was split across the new operating segments Grosvenor Casinos digital, Mecca digital and Blue Square Bet on a relative value basis based on future discounted cash flows for each of these operating segments.
This resulted in all of the goodwill being allocated to the Mecca digital CGU for the purposes of impairment testing.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 108 In respect of the Mecca digital CGU, the recoverable amount has been determined based on a value in use calculation using 20-year cash flow projections based on the Groups budget for 2013 14, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% thereafter.
Both the Groups budget and strategic plan have been approved by the board of directors.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are settled stakes, gaming win margins, gaming duty and the discount rate.
Settled stakes represent monies placed by customers for interactive games and are estimated taking into account the product mix and industry developments.
Gaming win margins are based on values achieved in the past and amended for any anticipated changes in the budget period.
Gaming duty is based upon statutory rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
The calculation also assumes that revenue from UK domiciled customers is not subject to UK duty or VAT until the introduction of remote gaming duty on a place of consumption basis in December 2014.
As a result of the impairment testing, the directors do not believe that the carrying value of the goodwill was impaired as the value in use significantly exceeded the carrying value of goodwill.
The key factors which impact the calculation of the carrying value include: Key factors Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Settled stakes, Gaming win margin Poor or decreased marketing Settled stakes Failure to respond to technological advances Settled stakes Deterioration in economic environment Settled stakes Changes in regulation Settled stakes, Gaming win margin Changes in taxation Gaming duty Changes in settled stakes and gaming win margin impact gaming win and consequently the cash flow projections used to determine the recoverable amount.
The directors do not consider that there is a reasonably possible change that would lead to an impairment.
ii Casino licences The carrying value of indefinite life casino licences as at 30 June 2013 was 231.1m 30 June 2012: 76.0m.
155.8m of this value arose on the acquisition of 19 Gala Casinos during the year, further details of which are provided in note 25.
Given the proximity of this acquisition to the year end an impairment review has not been carried out on this element of casino licences.
The remaining 75.3m of this balance 30 June 2012: 76.0m related to existing Grosvenor casinos.
The inherent value of casino licences is deemed to be an intrinsic part of the value of the operation of casinos as a whole and is therefore not split out from each Grosvenor casino in an impairment review.
Each Grosvenor casino has been treated as a separate CGU, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of each Grosvenor casino, including the licence, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use has been determined using cash flow projections, over the length of the associated lease or 50 years for freehold properties, based on the Groups budget for 2013 14, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 30 June 2012: 2.0% thereafter.
Estimates of the fair value less costs to sell are performed internally by experienced senior management supported by knowledge of similar transactions or, where applicable, offers received.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are customer visits, spend per visit, casino duty, machine games duty and the discount rate.
Customer visits are the number of discrete visits by members to the casino and have been based on historic trends.
Spend per visit comprises the average amount of money net of winnings spent per visit on gaming tables, machines and food and beverages.
This has also been determined by historic trends.
Casino duty is levied in bands of between 15% and 50% depending upon the level of gaming win at each casino.
The bands and rates have been assumed to remain at current levels without indexation.
Machine games duty is levied at rates of 5% or 20% depending upon certain criteria.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 109 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 13 Impairment review continued The table below outlines the possible changes in key assumptions that could cause the carrying value of individual licences to exceed their recoverable amount.
These are: Key factors Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Customer visits Poor or decreased promotional activity Customer visits Failure to respond to technological advances Customer visits, Spend per visit Deterioration in economic conditions Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in regulation Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in taxation Casino duty, Machine games duty With the exception of a prolonged non-operation of a UK casino licence arising from one or more of the possible changes outlined above, the directors do not believe that there are any reasonably forseeable changes to the key assumptions that would result in a material impairment of a UK casino licence.
The only impairment charge against indefinite life casino licences recognised in the year was 1.1m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: nil against a non-trading licence following a review based on current local market conditions.
The two casino concessions in Belgium are being amortised over their expected useful life.
At 30 June 2013 these concessions had a carrying value of 5.3m 30 June 2012: 5.2m.
Each of the casino concessions has also been treated as a separate CGU for impairment testing purposes.
As a result of this review an impairment charge of 1.9m and an impairment reversal of 2.4m have been recognised on individual concessions.
iii Spanish bingo licences The carrying value of Spanish bingo licences as at 30 June 2013 was 10.2m 30 June 2012: 7.1m.
The inherent value of each Spanish bingo licence is deemed to be an intrinsic part of the value of a club as a whole and is not therefore split out from the assets of each individual bingo club in an impairment review.
Each individual bingo club has been treated as a separate CGU, and tested for impairment on that basis.
The recoverable amount of each Spanish bingo club, including the licence, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use calculation has been determined using cash flow projections, over the length of the associated lease or 50 years in the case of freehold properties, based on the Groups budget for 2013 14, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 30 June 2012: 2.0% thereafter.
The key assumptions in the calculation of value in use are customer visits, spend per visit, bingo tax and the discount rate.
Customer visits are the number of discrete visits to the bingo club and have been based on recent trends.
Spend per visit comprises the average amount of money net of winnings spent by a member on bingo games, machines and food and beverages.
This has been determined by recent trends.
Bingo tax is based upon statutory rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
As a result of the impairment review, impairment charges of 1.9m and an impairment reversal of 4.4m have been recognised against the value in use of three bingo licences.
However, there are possible changes in the key assumptions that could cause further impairments.
These are: Key factors Key assumption impacted Increased or improved competition Customer visits Poor or decreased promotional activity Customer visits Failure to respond to technological advances Customer visits, Spend per visit Deterioration in economic conditions Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in regulation Customer visits, Spend per visit Changes in taxation Bingo tax As outlined above, each Spanish bingo licence has been tested for impairment as part of the club as a whole.
Accordingly, the sensitivity of each licence to future impairments, arising from changes in the key assumptions, varies at each club.
For the clubs previously impaired, a one percentage point reduction in expected future EBITDA would generate an incremental impairment of 0.2m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 110 b impairment review of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are grouped into CGUs which are defined as individual venues for Mecca, Enracha and Grosvenor Casinos and as the Grosvenor Casinos digital and Mecca digital businesses.
The key assumptions and sensitivities in the impairment reviews are the same as outlined above for intangible assets.
The recoverable amount of each CGU, including the licence if applicable, has been determined based on the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The value in use has been determined using cash flow projections from the Groups budget for 2013 14, the Groups strategic plan for the following two years and a growth rate of 2.0% 2012: 2.0% thereafter.
Estimates of the fair value less costs to sell are performed internally by an experienced surveyor supported by external estate agent advice or, where applicable, offers received.
c impairment recognised during the period Details of impairment charges and reversals recognised during the current and prior periods are disclosed in note 4.
14 Investments in subsidiaries As at As at 30 June 30 June 2013 2012 Company m m Cost At start of period 1,517.8 1,516.9 Movements 0.6 0.9 At end of period 1,517.2 1,517.8 Provision for impairment At start of period 331.8 489.3 Reversal of impairment 157.5 At end of period 331.8 331.8 net book value at end of period 1,185.4 1,186.0 The movements relate to the fair value of services recognised by subsidiary undertakings arising from equity-settled share options granted by the Company.
A list of the significant investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 34.
In the prior period, the Company recognised an impairment reversal of 157.5m following a period of sustained improvement in earnings used as a basis for the annual impairment review of the carrying value of the Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings, together with the exceptional VAT refunds received in the period.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 111 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 15 Inventories Group As at As at 30 June 30 June 2013 2012 m m Raw materials 0.3 0.2 Finished goods 3.0 2.9 3.3 3.1 There were no write downs of inventory in either period.
16 Other receivables Group Company as at As at as at As at 30 june 30 June 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Current Other receivables 5.4 4.5 Less: provisions for impairment of other receivables 0.1 Other receivables net 5.4 4.4 Prepayments 25.6 26.3 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 42.9 43.6 31.0 30.7 42.9 43.6 non-current Other receivables 2.9 3.9 2.9 3.9 Group The carrying values of other receivables are assumed to approximate to their fair values due to their short-term nature.
As at 30 June 2013, other receivables of 0.6m 30 June 2012: 0.5m were past due but not impaired.
The creation and release of provision for impaired receivables have been included in other operating costs in the income statement.
Amounts charged to the provision for impairment are generally written off when there is no expectation of recovering additional cash.
The other classes within receivables do not contain impaired assets.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Company The carrying values of amounts due from subsidiary undertakings are assumed to equate to their fair value as all amounts are repayable on demand.
The amounts are denominated in UK Sterling and relate to subsidiary undertakings for which there is no history of default.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 112 17 Trade and other payables Group Company as at as at As at As at 30 june 30 june 30 June 30 June 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Current Trade payables 25.4 14.2 Social security and other taxation 33.7 23.4 Other payables 65.7 62.8 1.6 1.5 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings repayable on demand 795.0 756.4 Trade and other payables current 124.8 100.4 796.6 757.9 non-current Other payables 43.8 0.1 Trade and other payables non-current 43.8 0.1 Other payables includes 2.6m current payables and 43.8m non-current payables in respect of above market property contracts on the acquired Gala Casinos.
18 Income tax Group as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Income tax receivable 9.0 0.1 Income tax payable Continuing operations 46.0 49.8 Income tax payable Discontinued operations 17.9 20.6 Income tax payable 63.9 70.4 net income tax payable 54.9 70.3 Income tax payable has been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Current 42.2 31.3 Non-current 21.7 39.1 Total 63.9 70.4 Income tax payable on discontinued operations relates to potential tax liabilities that are attributable to disposed entities with historic tax audits.
The liability represents managements current estimate of the payments that will be required to settle the various issues.
Income tax payable included within non-current liabilities relates to ongoing tax issues in continuing operations that may be challenged by the relevant tax authority and ongoing tax exposure in discontinued operations in overseas jurisdictions.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 113 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 19 Financial assets and liabilities a interest bearing loans and borrowings Group as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 Maturity m m Current interest-bearing loans and borrowings On Bank overdrafts demand 3.4 2.9 Obligations under finance leases Various 3.3 3.0 Other current loans Accrued interest July 2013 1.3 0.5 Unamortised facility fees Various 0.6 0.1 Total current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 7.4 6.3 non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 7.125% Yankee bonds 2018 9.4 9.1 Term loans 2016 140.0 Obligations under finance leases Various 13.0 15.7 Other non-current loans Unamortised facility fees Various 1.3 0.2 Total non-current interest-bearing loans and borrowings 161.1 24.6 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 168.5 30.9 Sterling 159.1 21.8 US Dollars 9.4 9.1 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 168.5 30.9 Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are for short-term funding and are repayable on demand.
Revolving credit facilities Five-year facilities were signed in January 2012 and consist of four 20.0m multi-currency revolving credit bi-lateral facilities totalling 80.0m.
Interest is payable on a periodic basis depending on the loan drawn.
The facilities carry floating rates of interest which are LIBOR dependent.
No drawings have been made on the facilities during the period.
Term loan facilities New three-year facilities were signed on 25 April 2013 and consist of two bi-lateral 70.0m term loans totalling 140.0m.
These loans were put in place to fund the recent acquisition of Gala Casino 1 Limited from Gala Coral Group Limited.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 114 Yankee bonds Interest on the Yankee bonds is payable half yearly in January and July at a rate of 7.125%.
Covenants The Group complied with all its covenants during the period.
Company The Company did not hold any external interest-bearing loans or borrowings at 30 June 2013 30 June 2012: nil.
The Company holds interest-bearing loans with other Group companies at 30 June 2013 of 795.0m 30 June 2012: 756.4m.
b Hedging activities The Group has not carried out any hedging activities in either period.
c Fair values The table below is a comparison by class of the carrying amounts and fair value of the Group and Companys financial instruments at 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012.
Carrying amount Fair value as at As at as at As at 30 june 30 June 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 2013 2012 Group m m m m Financial assets: loans and receivables Other receivables 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.9 Cash and short-term deposits 65.3 72.5 65.3 72.5 Total 66.1 73.4 66.1 73.4 Financial liabilities: Other financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Obligations under finance leases 16.3 18.7 16.3 18.7 Floating rate borrowings 140.0 140.0 Fixed rate borrowings 9.4 9.1 9.1 9.0 Other 0.6 0.2 0.6 0.2 Trade and other payables 83.8 77.0 83.8 77.0 Bank overdrafts 3.4 2.9 3.4 2.9 Onerous property leases 47.0 46.0 47.0 46.0 Lease disposal settlements 0.8 1.2 0.8 1.2 Total 300.1 155.1 299.8 155.0 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 115 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 19 Financial assets and liabilities continued Carrying amount Fair value as at As at as at As at 30 june 30 June 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 2013 2012 Company m m m m Financial assets: loans and receivables Other receivables 42.9 43.6 42.9 43.6 Cash and short-term deposits 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 Total 43.1 43.7 43.1 43.7 Financial liabilities: Other financial liabilities Trade and other payables 796.6 757.9 796.6 757.9 Financial guarantee contracts 3.4 0.1 3.4 0.1 Total 800.0 758.0 800.0 758.0 The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: Cash and short-term deposits, other receivables, bank overdrafts and other financial liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments: The fair value of fixed rate borrowings is based on price quotations at the reporting date: The fair value of floating rate borrowings and obligations under finance leases approximates to their carrying amounts: and The fair value of onerous property leases and lease disposal settlements approximate their carrying amount as they are discounted at current rates.
20 Financial risk management objectives and policies Financial risk factors The Groups principal financial liabilities comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other payables.
The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group has other receivables, and cash and short-term deposits that derive directly from its operations.
The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall financial risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Groups senior management oversees the management of these risks.
The finance committee is supported by the Groups senior management that advises on financial risks and the appropriate financial risk governance framework for the Group.
The finance committee provides assurance that the Groups financial risk-taking activities are governed by appropriate policies and procedures and the financial risks are identified, measured and managed in accordance with Group policies and Group risk appetite.
The board of directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks which are summarised below.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 116 a Market risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings and deposits.
The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the position at 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012.
The sensitivity analyses have been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating rates of the debt and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant.
i Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates relates primarily to the Groups operating activities when revenue or expense is denominated in a different currency from the Groups functional currency and the Groups net investments in foreign subsidiaries.
Group policy is not to hedge foreign currency risk.
Foreign currency sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of a possible change in the US Dollar and euro, with all other variables held constant, to the Groups profit before tax and the Groups equity.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material.
Effect on profit before tax Effect on equity As at As at As at As at 30 June 30 June 30 June 30 June 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Change in US$ rate: 10.0% 0.9 0.8 -10.0% 1.0 1.0 Change in euro rate: 10.0% 0.1 7.5 4.1 -10.0% 0.1 7.5 4.1 ii Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term debt obligations with floating interest rates.
Historically the Group had managed its interest rate risk by having a balanced portfolio of fixed and variable rate loans and borrowings.
Due to the current economic climate the Group has exercised its right to operate outside the Group policy of maintaining between 40% and 60% of its borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
At 30 June 2013, 15% of the Groups borrowings were at a fixed rate of interest 30 June 2012: 91%.
iii Interest rate sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change in interest rates on income and equity for the year when this movement is applied to the carrying value of loans, borrowings, cash and short-term deposits.
Effect on profit before tax As at As at 30 June 30 June 2013 2012 m m Sterling: 100 basis point increase 1.3 0.3 200 basis point increase 2.5 0.7 There was no impact on equity in either period.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 117 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 20 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Due to current low interest rates, any further decline would not have a material impact on income and equity for the period.
As such, sensitivity to a decrease in interest rates has not been presented.
The Group did not enter into any fixed-to-floating or floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps in either period.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily for other receivables and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments.
Financial instruments and cash deposits Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by the Groups treasury department in accordance with the Groups policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty.
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by the finance director, and may be updated throughout the period subject to the approval of the Groups finance committee.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
The credit worthiness of each counterparty is checked against independent credit ratings on at least a weekly basis, with a minimum rating of BBB required.
The Group predominantly invests with its lending banks when appropriate.
Sales to retail customers are settled in cash or using major credit cards and therefore the exposure to credit risk is not considered significant.
No credit limits were exceeded during the reporting period and management does not expect any material losses from non-performance of its counterparties.
c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not have sufficient funds to meet its liabilities.
Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements of the Group are produced quarterly.
The cash forecasts are sensitivity tested for different scenarios and are reviewed regularly.
Forecast financial headroom and debt covenant compliance are reviewed monthly during the month-end process to ensure sufficient financial headroom exists for at least a 12-month period.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying businesses, Group treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
A three-year strategic forecast is prepared annually to facilitate planning for future financing needs.
Management actively manages the Groups financing requirements and the range of maturities on its debt.
The Groups core debt facilities are the 80.0m 30 June 2012: 80.0m bank facility comprising four 20.0m bi-lateral bank facilities which expire in January 2017 and the 140.0m 30 June 2012: nil bank facility comprising two 70.0m bi-lateral bank facilities which expire in May 2016.
The Group proactively manages its relationships with its lending group.
The funding policy of the Group is to maintain, as far as practicable, a broad portfolio of debt diversified by source and maturity, and to maintain committed facilities sufficient to cover seasonal peak anticipated borrowing requirements.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 118 The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Less than On demand 12 months 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m at 30 june 2013 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 3.4 8.2 8.3 159.0 4.9 183.8 Trade and other payables 83.8 83.8 Onerous property leases 4.2 3.8 10.8 45.4 64.2 Lease disposal settlements 0.7 0.1 0.8 3.4 96.9 12.2 169.8 50.3 332.6 at 30 june 2012 Interest bearing loans and borrowings 2.9 4.6 4.5 10.4 17.8 40.2 Trade and other payables 77.0 77.0 Onerous property leases 4.4 3.6 9.7 46.4 64.1 Lease disposal settlements 0.7 0.5 1.2 2.9 86.7 8.6 20.1 64.2 182.5 Interest payments on the interest-bearing loans and borrowings have been projected until the instruments mature.
The bank facility interest payments were based on current LIBOR rates as at 30 June 2013.
Capital management As a result of the difficult conditions that developed in the global capital markets in recent years, the Groups objectives when managing capital have been to ensure continuing access to existing debt facilities and to manage the borrowing cost of those facilities in order to minimise the Groups interest charge.
Consistent with others in the gaming industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of leverage ratio.
The ratio is calculated as net debt divided by EBITDA.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including loans and borrowings as shown in the consolidated balance sheet less cash and short-term deposits, accrued interest and unamortised facility fees.
EBITDA is calculated as operating profit before exceptional items, depreciation and amortisation from continuing operations.
The leverage ratios at 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012 were as follows: As at as at 30 June 30 june 2012 2013 restated m m Total loans and borrowings note 19 168.5 30.9 Less: Cash and short-term deposits 65.3 72.5 Less: Accrued interest 1.3 0.5 Less: Unamortised facility fees 1.9 0.3 Net debt cash 103.8 41.8 Continuing operations Operating profit before exceptionals 69.9 69.7 Add: Depreciation and amortisation 38.9 37.3 EBITDA 108.8 107.0 Leverage ratio 1.0 0.4 The leverage ratio at 30 June 2012 is based on unaudited financials for the 12 months to 30 June 2012.
Taking into consideration both the Groups capital investment requirements and the stability of the wider economic environment the Group considers its progressive dividend policy to be appropriate.
The board recommends dividends with the intention that the Group achieves a dividend cover of at least three times over the medium term.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 119 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 20 Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Collateral The Group did not pledge or hold any collateral at 30 June 2013 30 June 2012: nil.
Company The Company is exposed to credit risk on amounts owed by related undertakings.
The performance of all subsidiary undertakings of the Group is monitored at Group level, including frequent projections of future performance to ensure funding to related undertakings provides a suitable return and remains recoverable.
Where losses are forecast, actions are taken to mitigate the loss and maximise the recoverability of receivables.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the fair value of its receivables of 42.9m 30 June 2012: 43.6m.
The Company does not have any other significant exposure to financial risks.
21 Deferred tax The analysis of deferred tax included in the financial statements at the end of the period is as follows: Group Company as at As at as at As at 30 june 30 June 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Deferred tax assets: Accelerated capital allowances 16.7 18.4 Tax losses carried forward 2.6 3.5 Other UK temporary differences 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax assets 19.3 21.9 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax liabilities: Other overseas temporary differences 3.0 2.2 Business combinations non-qualifying properties 1.0 1.0 Temporary differences on UK licences 47.5 18.2 Other UK temporary differences 10.2 1.9 Deferred tax liabilities 41.3 19.5 net deferred tax liability asset 22.0 2.4 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and current tax liabilities and it is the intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities of 16.7m 30 June 2012: 18.4m have been offset and disclosed on the balance sheet as follows: Group as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Deferred tax assets 2.6 3.5 Deferred tax liabilities 24.6 1.1 net deferred tax liability asset 22.0 2.4 The deferred tax assets recognised are recoverable against future taxable profits that the directors consider more likely than not to occur on the basis of management forecasts.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 120 The Group has overseas tax losses of 22.9m 30 June 2012: 20.0m that are carried forward for offset against suitable future taxable profits.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of these losses as their utilisation is not currently anticipated.
The expiry of these losses was as follows: Group as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Expiring in 2017 21.5 19.1 No expiry date 1.4 0.9 22.9 20.0 The Group has UK capital losses carried forward of 787m 30 June 2012: 790m.
These losses are available for offset against future UK chargeable gains.
No deferred tax asset 30 June 2012: nil has been recognised in respect of these capital losses as no further utilisation is currently anticipated.
Temporary differences associated with Group investments There was no deferred tax liability recognised 30 June 2012: nil for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain subsidiaries.
The Group has determined that any unremitted earnings that do not fall within the dividend exemption introduced in the Finance Act 2009 will not be distributed in the foreseeable future and the parent company does not foresee giving such consent at the balance sheet date.
The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: Group 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Deferred tax in the income statement Accelerated capital allowances 3.4 12.6 Deferred tax movement on fair valued assets 0.7 Tax losses 0.9 7.4 Other temporary differences 0.5 5.4 Total deferred tax charge 4.8 13.9 Continuing operations 4.6 13.9 Discontinued operations 0.2 Total deferred tax charge 4.8 13.9 The deferred tax movement on the balance sheet is as follows: Group Company 30 june 30 June 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m As at start of period 2.4 16.0 0.2 0.4 Exchange adjustments 0.1 Acquisition of subsidiary see note 25 19.8 Deferred tax charge in the income statement 4.8 13.9 0.2 Deferred tax credit to equity 0.3 0.3 as at end of period 22.0 2.4 0.2 0.2 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 121 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 22 Provisions Onerous Disposal Restructuring Indirect tax Dilapidation leases provisions provisions provisions provisions Total Group m m m m m m at 1 july 2012 46.0 6.9 52.9 Exchange adjustments 0.1 0.1 Unwinding of discount 1.1 0.2 1.3 Charge to the income statement - exceptional 1.5 0.7 12.2 0.3 14.7 Utilised in period 4.3 1.3 5.6 Acquisition of subsidiary note 25 2.7 2.2 4.9 at 30 june 2013 47.0 5.9 0.7 12.2 2.5 68.3 Current 4.2 1.9 0.7 12.2 0.5 19.5 Non-current 42.8 4.0 2.0 48.8 Total 47.0 5.9 0.7 12.2 2.5 68.3 Provisions have been based on managements best estimate of the future cash flows, taking into account the risks associated with each obligation.
Onerous leases The Group is party to a number of leasehold property contracts.
Provision has been made against those leases where the property or part of the property is now vacant and the unavoidable costs under the lease exceed the economic benefit expected to be derived from potential sub-letting arrangements.
Provision has also been made against leases where impairment testing has indicated that, after recognising an impairment charge, the estimated discounted cash flows derived from the property and its associated operations are insufficient to cover the unavoidable lease costs and the lease is therefore deemed onerous.
These leases have a weighted average unexpired life of 25 years 30 June 2012: 26 years.
Of the provision totalling 47.0m, 22.1m will be utilised over periods ranging from one to 16 years: and the remaining 24.9m will be utilised over periods from one to in excess of 25 years.
Disposal provisions Provision has been made for legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims, deferred payments arising from the settlement of property lease obligations and other directly attributable costs arising as a consequence of the sale or closure of the businesses.
The timing of any personal injury claims is uncertain and therefore these claims have been included in the maturity analysis based on managements best estimates.
The disposal provisions held at 30 June 2013 comprise the following: as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Deferred payments arising on lease settlement and related costs 0.8 1.2 Legacy industrial disease and personal injury claims 4.4 4.9 Other 0.7 0.8 Total disposal provisions 5.9 6.9 Restructuring provisions The restructuring provision includes costs associated with the disposal of the Blue Square Bet business.
indirect tax provisions The Group has recognised provisions for a number of historic indirect taxation issues.
The amount represents the directors best estimate of the outflow likely to arise.
Dilapidation provisions Where the Group has an unavoidable contractual obligation to restore a property to its original condition, the Group provides for the unavoidable costs.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 122 23 Share capital as at As at 30 june 2013 30 June 2012 authorised Authorised nominal Nominal number value Number value m m m m 8 9 Ordinary shares of 13 p each 1,296.0 180.0 1,296.0 180.0 as at As at 30 june 2013 30 June 2012 issued and fully paid Issued and fully paid nominal Nominal number value Number value m m m m At start of period 390.6 54.2 390.5 54.2 Shares issued in period 0.1 0.1 At end of period 390.7 54.2 390.6 54.2 During the period 70,095 ordinary shares were issued under the Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 84,112 for total consideration of 97,432 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 116,916.
24 Cash generated from operations Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from continuing operations: Group Company 18 months 12 months ended 12 months 18 months ended 30 June ended ended 30 june 2012 30 june 30 June 2013 restated 2013 2012 m m m m Continuing operations Operating profit loss 52.2 149.3 3.1 152.8 Exceptional items 17.7 48.1 4.0 Operating profit before exceptional items 69.9 101.2 3.1 156.8 Depreciation and amortisation 38.9 54.9 Reversal of impairment 157.5 Decrease in inventories 0.1 0.3 Decrease increase in other receivables 1.9 3.1 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 7.9 2.4 0.1 0.7 Share based payments and other 1.0 1.5 2.8 0.7 117.7 157.2 0.2 0.7 Cash utilisation of provisions 5.6 12.2 Cash payments in respect of exceptional items 8.4 8.3 4.0 Cash receipts in respect of exceptional items 85.4 Cash generated from used in continuing operations 103.7 222.1 0.2 4.7 Details of Group cash generated from operations for the 12 months ended 30 June 2013 and the 12 months ended 30 June 2012 are provided in the unaudited appendix to the financial statements on pages 134 to 142.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 123 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 25 Acquisition of subsidiary On 12 May 2013, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Gala Casino 1 Limited now Grosvenor Casinos GC Limited for a base cash consideration, subject to certain adjustments including working capital at completion, of 179.0m.
The acquisition, which includes 19 operating casinos and three non-operating casino licences, provides a significant opportunity for the Group to deliver sustainable value to its shareholders through the development of its successful casino portfolio.
Provisional fair values The provisional fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the acquisition are outlined in the following table.
Provisional fair value m Intangible assets 159.5 Property, plant and equipment 18.8 Inventories 0.2 Other receivables 1.8 Income tax receivable 2.7 Cash and short-term deposits 4.5 Trade and other payables 58.4 Deferred tax liability 19.8 Provisions 4.9 net assets acquired 104.4 Provisional goodwill 78.5 Consideration 182.9 The amounts disclosed are provisional due to the proximity of the acquisition to the Groups year-end and the completion account process outlined by the sale and purchase agreement extending beyond the finalisation of these financial statements.
The amounts have therefore been based on the latest available draft completion accounts.
The initial accounting will be completed within the 12-month measurement period permitted by IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Other receivables include an immaterial amount of financial assets.
Reconciliation to cash outflow from acquisition of subsidiary including deferred consideration m Consideration 182.9 Cash and short-term deposits acquired 4.5 Consideration outstanding at balance sheet date based on draft completion accounts 0.2 Deferred consideration paid in respect of prior year acquisitions 0.1 acquisition of subsidiary including deferred consideration 178.3 Goodwill Goodwill comprises deferred tax liabilities recognised on certain fair value adjustments arising on acquisition and the synergy benefits arising from the exclusion of all central management functions previously associated with the operation of the casinos from the acquisition.
The Group expects to be able to operate the acquired casinos with only a small incremental cost increase in its existing casino central management functions.
None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 124 acquisition-related costs The Group has recognised an exceptional operating expense of 7.8m in the income statement in respect of acquisitionrelated costs.
This includes the additional costs incurred by the Group due to the referral of the acquisition to the Competition Commission and a 0.4m loss associated with the disposal of the Groups non-operating licence in Edinburgh required by the Competition Commission.
The amount is in addition to the 5.0m exceptional operating expense recognised in the income statement in the previous reporting period in respect of acquisition-related costs.
The Group has also recognised the 140.0m term loans raised to part-finance the acquisition at their fair value less 1.8m of costs directly attributable to the issue of the debt.
income statement The following amounts, representing the results from the date of acquisition to 30 June 2013, have been included in the Groups income statement.
m Revenue before adjustment for free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 15.5 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 0.4 Revenue 15.1 Operating profit before exceptional items 2.9 Profit after tax 2.1 The following table reconciles the amounts reported in the Group income statement to the amounts that would have been included had the acquisition completed at the beginning of the Groups reporting period.
Reported Adjustment Pro-forma m m m Revenue before adjustment for free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 625.0 97.3 722.3 Free bets, promotions and customer bonuses 28.8 2.8 31.6 Revenue 596.2 94.5 690.7 Operating profit before exceptional items 69.9 14.5 84.4 Profit after tax 27.0 10.8 37.8 In preparing the pro-forma results certain assumptions and estimates have been made and are therefore not necessarily indicative of the results of the Group that would have occurred had the acquisition actually occurred at the beginning of the reporting period.
The information is also not indicative of the future results of the Group.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 125 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 26 Cash and short-term deposits Group as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Cash at bank and on hand 49.4 37.3 Short-term deposits 15.9 35.2 Total 65.3 72.5 The analysis of cash and short-term deposits by currency is as follows: Group as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Sterling 59.2 67.5 Euro 5.8 4.6 Other currencies 0.3 0.4 Total 65.3 72.5 Cash at bank earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short-term deposits are made for varying periods depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
For the purpose of the statements of cash flow, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: Group as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Cash at bank and on hand 49.4 37.3 Short-term deposits 15.9 35.2 65.3 72.5 Bank overdrafts 3.4 2.9 61.9 69.6 Company At 30 June 2013, the Company had cash and short-term deposits of 0.2m 30 June 2012: 0.1m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 126 27 Employees and directors a employee benefit expense for the Group during the period 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Wages and salaries 165.1 238.7 Social security costs 17.0 26.4 Pension costs 3.6 3.8 Share-based payments 0.2 1.7 185.9 270.6 Employee benefit expense for the Group includes 4.0m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 5.5m in respect of discontinued operations.
The Company has no employees.
The directors of the Group are paid by a subsidiary undertaking.
b average monthly number of employees 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 Grosvenor Casinos venues 4,698 4,115 Mecca venues 3,846 4,112 Digital 186 187 Enracha 563 523 Central 349 325 9,642 9,262 c Key management compensation 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits including social security costs 4.0 6.6 Termination benefits 0.2 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.6 Share-based payments 0.2 1.7 4.8 8.9 Included in key management compensation are bonuses of nil in the respect of the current period that will be paid in 2013 14 2012 13: 1.6m.
Key management is defined as the directors of the Group and the management team, details of which are set out on page 50.
Further details of emoluments received by directors are included in the remuneration report.
d Directors interests The directors interests in shares of the Company, including options to purchase ordinary shares under the terms of the Groups Executive Share Option Scheme, and conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plans, are detailed in the remuneration report.
Details of options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company granted to or exercised by directors in the 12 months ended 30 June 2013 are also detailed in the remuneration report.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 127 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 27 Employees and directors continued e Total emoluments of the directors of The Rank Group Plc 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Salaries, fees and benefits 1.2 2.9 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.3 1.4 3.2 No director accrued benefits under defined benefit pension schemes in either period.
One director 18 months ended 30 June 2012: one was a member of the Groups defined contribution pension plan.
Further details of emoluments received by directors, including the aggregate amount of gains made by directors upon the vesting of conditional share awards, are disclosed in tables 1 and 2 of the remuneration report on pages 74 and 75.
28 Share-based payments During the 12-month period ended 30 June 2013, the Company operated the Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option scheme, the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and the Long Term Incentive Plans LTIP.
All of these schemes are equity settled, other than the 2010 grant under the LTIP which was cash settled during the year.
Further details of the LTIP are included in the remuneration report on pages 70 to 72.
The SAYE scheme previously offered to all UK employees has now lapsed and all grants under the ESOS have been suspended.
The number and weighted average exercise prices WAEP of, and movements in, each of the share option arrangements during the period are shown below: Outstanding Granted Exercised Expired Forfeited Outstanding Exercisable 1 July during during during during 30 June 30 June 2012 2012 13 2012 13 2012 13 2012 13 2013 2013 esOs Number of shares 11,666 11,666 WAEP 270.00p 270.00p saye Number of shares 158,559 70,095 76,378 12,086 WAEP 139.00p 139.00p 139.00p 139.00p lTiP Number of shares 3,128,265 6,874,638 1,099,786 42,849 311,436 8,548,832 WAEP nil nil nil nil nil nil Outstanding Granted Exercised Expired Forfeited Outstanding Exercisable 1 January during during during during 30 June 30 June 2011 2011 12 2011 12 2011 12 2011 12 2012 2012 esOs Number of shares 273,568 261,902 11,666 11,666 WAEP 262.82p 262.50p 270.00p 270.00p saye Number of shares 919,612 84,112 654,403 22,538 158,559 WAEP 148.70p 139.00p 152.51p 142.73p 139.00p lTiP Number of shares 5,488,703 1,952,826 3,508,642 438,343 366,279 3,128,265 WAEP Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil Nil The maximum term of the LTIP options granted is five years.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 128 LTIP awards excercised during the year were cash-settled following a modification of the settlement basis.
No incremental fair value was granted on the date of modification.
All other options, including LTIP awards in the prior period, were equity-settled.
Of the options outstanding at 30 June 2013, 110,386 are to be cash-settled, with all others being equity-settled.
The share options outstanding at the period ends have the following range of exercise prices and expiry dates as follows: Outstanding at 30 june 2013 Outstanding at 30 June 2012 weighted Weighted average number average Number remaining of shares Exercise remaining of shares exercise contractual under prices contractual under prices life option range life option ESOS 270.00p 0.2 years 11,666 SAYE 139.00p 0.9 years 158,559 LTIP nil 3.1 years 8,548,832 Nil 1.4 years 3,128,265 The fair value of LTIP awards granted is calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation which allows for the incorporation of market performance conditions.
For grants made subject to an EPS performance condition, the expense recognised is based on expectations of these conditions being met, which are reassessed at each balance sheet date.
There have been no ESOS or SAYE awards granted during either period.
The following table lists the inputs used for the LTIP grants during the periods ended: 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 Risk free interest rate % 0.75-1.42 1.65 Dividend yield % 5.10 2.70 Expected volatility % 33.00 42.00 Vesting period years 2-4 3 Weighted average share price p 160.5 129.30 The expected life of the awards is based on current expectations and is not necessarily indicative.
The expected volatility reflects the assumption that the historical volatility over a period similar to the life of the award is indicative of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual outcome.
The number of LTIP awards and the fair value per share of the LTIP awards granted during the period were as follows: 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 Number 6,874,638 1,952,826 Weighted average fair value per share 103.4p 79.1p The Group recognised a 0.2m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 1.7m charge in operating profit from accounting for sharebased payments and related national insurance in accordance with IFRS 2.
National Insurance contributions are payable in respect of some share-based payments.
These contributions are payable on the date of exercise based on the intrinsic value of the share-based payments, and as such are treated as cash-settled awards.
The Group has recorded liabilities at 30 June 2013 of 0.1m 30 June 2012: 0.2m.
The Group has a further liability of 0.1m 30 June 2012: nil in respect of outstanding cash settled share options.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 129 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 29 Retirement benefits Defined contribution scheme The Group operates the Rank Group Stakeholder Pension Plan the Plan which is externally funded and the Plans assets are held separately from Group assets.
During the 12-month period to 30 June 2013, the Group contributed a total of 3.6m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 3.8m to the Plan.
There were no significant contributions outstanding at the balance sheet date in either period.
Other pension commitment The Group has an unfunded pension commitment relating to three former executives of the Group.
The Group paid 0.1m 18 months to 30 June 2012: 0.2m in pension payments during the period.
The net cost arising on the commitment of nil 18 months to 30 June 2012: 0.1m has been recognised in other financial losses in the income statement.
The actuarial gain arising on the commitment, resulting from the changes in assumptions outlined below in the period, was 0.2m 18 months to 30 June 2012: loss of 0.6m before taxation and 0.2m after taxation 18 months to 30 June 2012: loss of 0.5m.
The cumulative amount of actuarial losses on the commitment recognised in the statement of comprehensive income before taxation was 0.9m 30 June 2012: 1.1m.
Assumptions used to determine the obligations at: 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 % p. a.
Discount rate 4.5 4.2 Pension increases 3.0 2.9 The mortality table used to determine the obligation in both periods was the PA92 YOB mc with a 1.5% p. a. minimum improvement.
30 Commitments Group Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, plant and items of machinery.
These leases have durations of from under one year to 52 years.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Not later than one year 46.5 38.0 After one year but not more than five years 186.1 140.2 After five years 323.0 237.5 555.6 415.7 as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases 25.1 26.7 The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 130 Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Present value Minimum of minimum lease payments lease payments 30 june 30 June 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Not later than one year 4.2 4.1 3.3 3.0 After one year but not more than five years 10.3 12.4 8.1 9.7 More than five years 6.6 8.0 4.9 6.0 21.1 24.5 16.3 18.7 Less future finance charges 4.8 5.8 Present value of minimum lease payments 16.3 18.7 as at As at 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Total future minimum sub-lease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable sub-leases 0.2 0.2 Capital commitments At 30 June 2013, the Group has contracts placed for future capital expenditure, primarily relating to property, plant and equipment, of 4.7m 30 June 2012: 1.5m.
Company Financial guarantees The amortised value of financial guarantees issued by the Company is 3.4m 30 June 2012: 0.1m.
31 Contingent assets Group The Group has lodged a number of VAT claims that are the subject of on-going litigation but have not yet been paid.
These include, but are not limited to, claims submitted pursuant to the House of Lords decision in the Cond Nast Fleming Fleming cases on the applicability of the three-year cap that HMRC introduced to limit VAT reclaims.
Fleming claims, which had to be submitted by March 2009, are based on managements best estimates from the information available and the Group expects HMRC to closely review both the Groups right to the amounts claimed and the value of each claim before settlement.
In a number of cases, the Fleming claims are subject to the successful outcome of other litigation for the repayment of VAT including the amusement machines case already received by the Group.
The outcome of these cases is not certain and the latest step of the litigation was heard in May 2013.
The result of this hearing is expected by the end of October 2013.
The combined value of these claims, including simple interest, is currently estimated to be worth more than 275m.
The Group has not recognised any gain in its financial statements at 30 June 2013 in respect of the above items.
Company The Company had no contingent assets at either reporting date.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 131 Financial StatementS nOteS tO tHe Financial StatementS cOntinUeD 32 Contingent liabilities Group i Contingent liabilities relating to Fiscal Neutrality Case In May 2010, Rank received 30.8m VAT of 26.4m plus interest of 4.4m relating to a claim for repayment of overpaid VAT on amusement machines.
This claim was heard at the European Court of Justice in 2011 but the decision was not conclusive and part of the appeal was referred back to the UK courts.
The case was heard at the Upper Tribunal in June 2012 and a number of specific points have been referred back to the First Tier Tribunal for further consideration.
The Group agreed with HMRC to delay this hearing until another point of dispute in relation to the claim was heard at the Court of Appeal in May 2013.
The result of this hearing is expected by the end of October 2013. ii Other duty and VAT In previous periods the Group has disclosed contingent liabilities in respect of a limited number of VAT and duty issues.
During the period an amount of 12.2m plus interest has been provided to cover the directors best estimate of the expected outflow.
However, it remains possible that the ultimate resolution of these issues will vary from the amount provided.
The Groups total exposure, including the amount provided, is estimated at approximately 29m plus interest.
A summary of the various VAT claims is provided in the tax fact file on pages 45 to 46.
Company At 30 June 2013, the Company has made guarantees to subsidiary undertakings of 10.9m 30 June 2012: 11.2m.
The Company is the representative member of the Rank VAT group, and as such has joint and several liability for the Group VAT contingent liabilities outlined above.
33 Related party transactions Group Details of compensation of key management are disclosed in note 27. entities with significant influence over the Group On 7 June 2011, Guoco Group Limited Guoco, a company incorporated in Bermuda, and listed on the Hong Kong stock exchange, acquired a controlling interest in The Rank Group Plc.
At 30 June 2013, Guoco owned 74.5% 30 June 2012: 74.5% of the Companys shares through a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, Rank Assets Limited.
The ultimate parent undertaking of Guoco is Hong Leong Company Malaysia Berhad which is incorporated in Malaysia.
Tim Scoble and Mike Smith were appointed as non-executive directors by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting on 22 April 2010 as appointees of Guoco.
Mike Smith resigned as a director with effect from 30 April 2011 and Tim Scoble became independent on 30 April 2012.
During the 12 months ended 30 June 2013, payments of nil 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 63,333 were made to Guoco-controlled companies in relation to their fees.
During the period The Gaming Group Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into an agreement, subject to the satisfaction of certain legal conditions, to purchase five non-operating casino licences from Clermont Leisure UK Limited for a maximum total consideration of 6.0m.
Clermont Leisure UK Limited is an entity subject to common control.
The valuation of the licences was carried out by a third party on an arms length basis.
This transaction has not yet completed and consequently there are no transactions or balances reflected in the financial statements in respect of the transaction.
Company The following transactions with subsidiaries occurred in the period 12 months 18 months ended ended 30 june 30 June 2013 2012 m m Interest payable to subsidiary undertaking 27.9 39.6 During the period, Rank Group Finance Plc, a subsidiary of the Company, provided additional cash to the Company of 14.8m 18 months ended 30 June 2012: 22.8m.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 132 34 Principal subsidiaries 1 The Company owns directly or indirectly 100% of the ordinary share capital and voting rights of the following companies : Name Country of incorporation Principal activities Mecca Bingo Limited England and Wales Social and bingo clubs Rank Leisure Limited England and Wales Adult gaming centres in Mecca Bingo and Grosvenor Casinos Rank Holding Espaa SA Spain Owns the Groups investments in Spain Grosvenor Casinos Limited England and Wales London and provincial casinos Grosvenor Casinos GC Limited England and Wales London and provincial casinos Rank Digital Gaming Alderney Limited Alderney Interactive gaming Rank Interactive Development Limited England and Wales Support services to interactive gaming 2 Rank Digital Limited England and Wales Support services to interactive gaming Rank Digital Services Gibraltar Limited Gibraltar Support services to interactive gaming Rank Gaming Group Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company Rank Group Gaming Division Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company and provision of shared services Rank Leisure Holdings Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company and corporate activities 2 Rank Nemo Twenty-Five Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company Rank Overseas Holdings Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company Rank Holdings Netherlands BV Netherlands Intermediary holding company The Gaming Group Limited England and Wales Intermediary holding company 2 Rank Group Finance Plc England and Wales Funding operations for the Group 1 The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to list all companies.
The table above therefore includes those companies which the directors consider principally affect the consolidated results or financial position of the Group.
2 Directly held by the Company.
The principal activities are carried out in the country of incorporation as indicated above.
All principal subsidiary undertakings have a 30 June year-end, with the exception of Grosvenor Casinos GC Limited which has a year-end of 11 May.
The Group expects to change the accounting reference date of Grosvenor Casinos GC Limited to 30 June in the next financial year.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 133
