Strategic Report Operational Detail A Detailed Look at our Strategy No.
1 worldwide in upper gastro-intestinal Mucinex Fast Max in the wider cold and Our Strategy for Growth and products with the Powerbrand Gaviscon.
flu category in 2011-2012, and then Outperformance subsequently into the sinus category in 2013.
Leading position in analgesics in Europe and Our vision is a world where people are healthier And for 2014 we have now announced our Australia with the Powerbrand Nurofen.
Our purpose is to make a entry into the allergy category with our difference by giving people innovative solutions Leading positions in footcare in many new Mucinex Fast Max Allergy tablets, a for healthier lives and happier homes.
markets outside North America and Latin non-drowsy antihistamine with 24-hour relief America, with the Powerbrand Scholl.
from indoor and outdoor allergies.
Our strategy for growth and outperformance to deliver our vision centres around four Attractive Features of Consumer Health: Geographic roll outs: Our global consumer key pillars: Attractive demographics such as an emerging health infrastructure and go-to-market middle class keen to manage their health capability will facilitate further geographic 1.
Powerbrands a disproportionate focus on and an ageing population with greater needs.
expansion of our existing brands.
We have our 19 Powerbrands in the health, hygiene Governments keen to encourage consumers already had significant success with Gaviscon, and home categories.
to self-medicate on symptom management, a longstanding brand in our portfolio.
Powermarkets a disproportionate as more complex diseases make ever greater have also recently announced the launch of focus on our 16 Powermarkets, a calls on their funds.
Health brands have higher our newly acquired MegaRed brand in over significant number of which are in emerging consumer trust and loyalty: brands have 20 countries during 2014. markets and which have higher absolute superior gross margins and finally there is Hygiene 43% of Core Net Revenue growth potential.
a fragmented market place, dominated by Good hygiene is the foundation of healthy prescription pharmaceutical companies with 3.
Organisation we have organised our living and we believe it is important to educate typically less focus on and expertise in business around seven major consumer consumers about good hygienic practices.
clusters, each of which has Powermarkets Powerbrands are positioned with this in mind within it.
RB Positioning and Ability to win: and we have a number of large and marketOur consumer-centric and innovation-led leading Powerbrands in hygiene.
Margins we undertake continuous mindset, puts the consumers needs first.
initiatives aimed at freeing resource to invest We have built a global consumer health in the business and driving moderate margin Hygiene is the foundation of infrastructure and are present in all of the major expansion over the medium-term.
The combination POweRBRANDS STRATeGIC PILLAR 1 of our consumer focused and innovation-led Our Powerbrands are carefully selected for their mindset, our R&D and regulatory capabilities, high growth and margin potential, and we and our global infrastructure, positions us well invest disproportionately behind these brands for continued growth and outperformance.
We have 19 Growth Drivers Powerbrands, all bar one of which are classified Growth will be driven by three core into our three core categories of health, components: hygiene and home.
Science-based innovations: Our R&D Health 29% of Core Net Revenue department sits firmly alongside our category No.
1 worldwide in antiseptic liquids with the Consumer health has a number of attractive organisation and is core to the development Powerbrand Dettol.
features as a category and we have built the of scientifically driven and consumer-focused skill set to win in these categories.
1 worldwide in disinfectant cleaners innovation.
We dont discover new molecules products which both clean and disinfect rather we mine the wealth of existing science surfaces, killing 99.9% of germs with the Good health is the key to happiness.
and use our technical expertise and capability Powerbrand Lysol, in North America, and the to deliver products, using that science, which surface care products in the Dettol range consumers find relevant, convenient, know outside North America.
For example, when you have a headache, your number one priority is to get No.
1 worldwide in automatic dishwashing rid of pain quickly, so we developed Nurofen products used in automatic dishwashers Express, a patented combination of ibuprofen with the Powerbrand Finish.
and sodium which speeds up the release of No.
1 worldwide in the overall surface care the active ingredient and so targets pain category due to leading positions across No.
1 worldwide in condoms for both twice as quickly as an ibuprofen-only product.
disinfectant cleaners, non-disinfectant safe and more pleasurable sex, with the Brand extensions: Trust is important within multi-purpose cleaners, lavatory care, Powerbrand Durex.
consumer health, and we build on the trust speciality cleaners and polishes waxes.
1 worldwide in cough with the and loyalty we have created within our No.
1 worldwide in depilatories with the Powerbrand Mucinex.
brands to create opportunities in adjacent Powerbrand Veet.
Take for example Mucinex, our No.
1 worldwide in medicated sore throat market-leading cough and congestion No.
2 worldwide in lavatory care with Lysol in products with the Powerbrand Strepsils.
We have built on the North America and the Powerbrand Harpic, equity we created in this brand to launch across Europe and developing markets.
RB Annual Report 2013 9 Strategic Report Operational Detail No.
2 worldwide in pest control with particularly tough stains.
The tip exchange has the Powerbrand Mortein, the Groups proved a great success and we have already international brand, supported by local brand seen encouraging penetration improvements in franchises like d-Con in North America.
3 worldwide in acne treatment with the Medium-term KPI Powerbrand Clearasil.
Our prime portfolio focus is on health and hygiene and we had a medium-term KPI that The hygiene category is spearheaded by our 72% of our core revenue will come from health Dettol Lysol Powerbrands: trusted champions and hygiene brands by 2015.
At the end of of health, everyday.
We undertake many 2013 we actually achieved this KPI due to our LAPAC: North Asia, South East Asia, campaigns to help educate consumers on good strong organic growth, supplemented by Australia & New Zealand, Latin America hygienic practices in emerging markets, such as acquisitions.
We are now targeting to increase new mums hospital visit initiatives.
We visit RUMEA: Russia & CIS: Middle East, North Africa this by 1% per annum going forward.
new mums in hospital and educate them about & Turkey: sub-Saharan Africa the importance of healthy habits around their Portfolio Brands ENA: North America, Central Europe, home when they take their new child home for We have a number of local brands which do Northern Europe, Southern Europe, Western the first time.
We also visit schools as part of not fit with our health, hygiene and home Europe our healthy hands campaign and teach focus.
These are managed with a focus on local children the importance of washing their scale and cash generation.
MARGINS STRATeGIC PILLAR 4 hands, and how to do it properly.
The fourth pillar of our strategy is margin.
POweRMARKeTS AND ORGANISATION Increasing gross margin is a key priority.
It is at These are just a few examples of where we STRATeGIC PILLARS 2 & 3 the forefront of our virtuous earnings model.
believe we have a significant opportunity to The second pillar of our strategy is A Focus On Gross margin is an indicator of our ability to grow awareness and penetration of our brands Powermarkets.
Our brands are marketed and drive topline growth over time with the key through consumer targeted education, coupled sold in nearly 200 markets across the world, drivers being the following: with the right innovations for healthy living.
but we know that the vast majority of our global growth will come from a few key areas.
Improving the mix: We focus on categories Home 22% of Core Net Revenue We have identified 16 Powermarkets, in both where we can add real value for consumers, Home will always be the centre of a familys developed and emerging countries.
These are and earn a corresponding significant and world and our market-leading home care markets where we see exceptional potential for sustainable margin.
Powerbrands are positioned to create growth and where we have an ability to win.
Cost optimisation programmes: this is a The third pillar of our strategy is organisation, continual process in our business and not a where we seek a balance of emerging markets stop-start effort.
Now called Project Fuel, Home is the centre of family life.
We take a consumerwe are continually looking for greater centric view of the world and see seven major efficiencies and savings within our supply consumer clusters, around which we organise chain.
We also look at our products, with a ourselves.
Each cluster has one or more relentless focus on doing things at a cheaper Powermarkets within it.
Consumers within cost, and enhancing quality and the these clusters have significant similarities in consumer experience.
how they use, choose and buy our categories No.
1 worldwide in fabric treatment products Pricing: we look to take price increases of consumer goods and so it makes sense to to remove stains from clothes, carpets and where appropriate.
upholstery with the Powerbrand Vanish, Gross margin increased by 150 bps to 59.4% around the globe and Resolve Spray n Wash The first three of these consumer clusters are in 2013 due to a combination of the above in North America.
the consumers of Latin America, North Asia factors and positive mix arising from the and South Asia, which together with Australia No.
2 worldwide in air care with the discontinuation of our private label business and New Zealand we group together into one Powerbrand Air Wick.
during 2012. organisational structure named LAPAC.
1 worldwide in water softeners next three clusters are Russia and CIS, Middle Gross Margin expansion to Fund More products to prevent limescale build-up on East, North Africa and Turkey, and sub-Saharan Investment in our Brands washing machines and laundry with the Africa, and we group these three together into Our gross margin growth funds investment Powerbrand Calgon.
one organisational structure called RUMEA.
The behind our brands, which we have defined as seventh consumer cluster comprises Europe and BEI Brand Equity Investment.
2 worldwide in garment care laundry North America ENA.
Across these two markets TV and print, social and digital media, and cleaning products for delicate garments with there are many similarities in behaviours, in consumer and medical marketing.
It is a key the Powerbrand Woolite.
brand development and in how the retail trade metric for us and represents a combination of We have a proven track record of bringing is organised.
Hence ENA forms the third category and penetration building activities, as innovation that consumers love.
well as consumer and doctor awareness and example of our innovative approach to this education programmes.
Medium-term KPI category is our new Vanish Superbar.
It has Our medium-term goal is to grow the emerging In 2013 BEI was 13.0%, an increase of been designed specifically for emerging market areas of LAPAC and RUMEA faster so 30 bps over the prior year, and helped drive markets and has made Vanish more affordable that by 2015 they together represent 50% of total net revenue growth of 7% constant, to consumers where price remains a barrier and our core revenues, equal in size to ENA.
At the ex RB Pharmaceuticals a strong where people dont have washing machines for end of 2013 they represented 43%.
In 2013 outperformance versus market growth.
We also set up the online Vanish our progress was impacted by adverse currency tip exchange during the year.
This was a movements in a number of emerging markets, business development initiative aimed at by weaker performance in RUMEA and by our creating an online community for consumers Schiff acquisition within ENA.
to discuss how they use Vanish to get rid of 10 RB Annual Report 2013 150 120 90 60 30 0 Strategic Report Operational Detail Brand Equity Investment Food % of net revenue ex RB Pharmaceuticals The Group owns a largely North American food Gaviscon its About 15 15 business, the principal brands of which are the Powerbrand Frenchs Mustard the No.
1 the Science 13.0 mustard, and Franks Red Hot Sauce the No.
1 12 12.7 12 12.0 hot sauce and wing sauce in North America.
Medical journals are endorsing the science behind Gaviscon, proving 9 9 Mergers and Acquisitions M&A how it resolves the pain of the acid We believe opportunities will continue to pocket caused after eating 6 6 arise to augment our organic growth via M&A food.
RB health professionals over time.
The consumer health segment is a have been spreading the 3 3 fragmented market and RB is well positioned to news at leading gastrotake advantage of consolidation opportunities intestinal symposia from which may arise.
We require a number of 0 0 2011 2012 2013 criteria to be fulfilled before considering Shanghai to Berlin.
They must be Our gross margin growth also funds our adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items and strategically compelling, able to perform better investment in the capabilities we need in tax effects thereon under the ownership of RB, fit within a part of order to continuously bring new innovation the business where we have the managerial Declared dividend per share pence Our culture is underpinned by a highly to our consumers.
We have strengthened our depth to integrate them quickly and effectively, geared, performance-driven remuneration consumer health capabilities by increasing our 15 and must be value accretive.
structure applied universally to our Top400 investment behind clinical, medical, regulatory 134.0 global leaders.
We have also increased 12 125.0 Generating Shareholder Value investment in our emerging market areas of A robust supply of talented staff for the RUMEA and LAPAC as we implement our A Faster Growing P&L and Market Group is attributable to the Groups 9 strategy of further resource allocation to Outperformance commitment to provide challenging, global these markets.
Our core business, under the four pillars of our careers for confident high achievers, supported 6 strategy, is aimed at positioning RB in faster by a highly leveraged  We have invested more than 200m growing markets and faster growing and compensation policy.
Our executive leadership incrementally over the past two years as we higher margin categories.
With relentless focus 3 team has extensive experience in the FMCG prioritise the long-term, sustainable growth of on gross margin and investing virtuously we and health care sectors.
The members of our our brands.
seek to generate Shareholder value through 0 Executive Committee have been with us for 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Aiming for Moderate Operating Margin sustainable top line growth and moderate an average of 12 years.
expansion over the Medium-term margin expansion in the medium-term.
The Group believes its ability to attract and The combination of our focus on gross margin Strong Focus on Net working Capital and retain the excellent management needed expansion, and relentless cost containment Cash Conversion relies on continuing to offer diverse global funds both investment in our business and We continue to target operational management experiences coupled with performance-driven moderate operating margin expansion over the on net working capital and in 2013 achieved remuneration.
The Group trains and develops medium-term.
110% cash conversion of our net income.
By its middle and senior management pipeline In 2013 we increased adjusted margins by emphasising working capital management, through formal training programmes focusing 20 bps ex RB Pharmaceuticals ahead of our we are able to convert a high proportion of on three areas leadership skills, functional ingoing target.
Further, our tight skills and general skills and through a control over net capital expenditure purchases deliberate policy of training on the job.
Non-core Businesses less disposals of property, plant and equipment The Group has a number of formal training and intangible assets means that we are able modules for Top400.
RB Pharmaceuticals to convert a high proportion of our net cash RB Pharmaceuticals is a pioneer in the field of During 2013, the Group ran over 46 courses generated from operating activities into free innovative prescription treatments for chronic across these modules, providing approximately cash flow i. e. net cash generated from diseases of addiction.
It is responsible for the 450 trainings of the Top400.
Management is operating activities less net capital expenditure.
development of the Groups Subutex and international and is trained through rotation Suboxone prescription drug business.
Both Sustainable Returns to Shareholders in international postings both in countries and products are based on buprenorphine for Our dividend payout ratio has been maintained in the Groups central functions.
Succession treatment of opiate dependence.
In the US, at 50% of adjusted net income and this years planning is a critical management discipline Suboxone lost the exclusivity afforded by its dividend of 137p represents a 2% increase and is reviewed annually at least by the orphan drug status on 8 October 2009. over the prior year.
We have also undertaken full Board and quarterly at least by the On 31 August 2010, the Group announced a modest share buy back programme of Executive Committee.
that it had received approval from the US Food around 280m which broadly equals the The Group closely monitors and tracks its and Drug Administration for its application to level of new share issuance for employee Top400.
This is the core management team of manufacture and market Suboxone sublingual incentive programmes.
the business and is a diverse group, consisting Film.
Suboxone sublingual Film has been OuR ReSOuRCeS of over 55 nationalities.
Over 62% of the developed through an exclusive agreement The principal resource is management and Top400 is working in a country that is not their with MonoSol Rx, utilising its proprietary employees.
The other major resources required original domicile, consistent with the Groups PharmFilm technology, to deliver Suboxone by the business are an adequate supply of the policy to develop a multinational management in a fast-dissolving sublingual Film.
raw and packaging materials consumed by the team.
Turnover within this Top400 group in In October 2013 we announced our decision Groups products and the necessary funds for 2013 was 11%, of which 7% was involuntary, to undertake a strategic review of this business.
developing new products and reinvestment in which the Group considers excellent retention, This review is underway and we will update our advertising and promoting those brands.
balanced with the need to refresh the team Shareholders during the course of 2014. with new talent.
2013 saw 46 promotions, Talented, Global employees 63 moves, and 29 external recruits.
The Group Our strategy is delivered by highly talented ended the year with a low level of vacancies and driven people from around the world.
within the Top400 of 11, or around 3% of the Diverse backgrounds and experiences foster a measured group.
culture of entrepreneurism and achievement.
RB Annual Report 2013 11 Strategic Report Operational Detail The percentages of female members in the and building its brands is a significant OuR INDuSTRY, MARKeT AND Groups Director, senior manager and all competitive advantage.
COMPeTITIVe eNVIRONMeNT employee populations are 10%, 14% and The health, hygiene and home care industry Supply constraints do exist in the Groups 41% respectively.
is generally characterised by steady growth supply chain from time to time.
These normally in demand, with some variation due to The Group has designated the members of arise due to unexpected additional demand for macro-economic factors.
Some emerging its Top40 population as RBs senior managers products or the time delay involved in stepping markets exhibit more volatile demand in for the purposes of the gender split disclosure up production of new items to the levels reaction to macro-economic factors.
The required by s414C of Companies Act 2006. required internationally.
The Groups supply principal drivers of market growth in all markets chain is deliberately relatively well spread in The total number of employees to which the are the rate of household formation, growth in terms of geography and technology, such that split relates is 24,514.
This figure is different the level of disposable income and demand for the reliance on any one facility is reduced.
from the total employee numbers reported new products that offer improved performance However, there are a number of facilities that as it excludes seasonal labour which varies or greater convenience.
remain critical to the Groups supply chain, significantly during the year and for which where major interruption to normal working The industry is intensely competitive.
The gender identifiers are not recorded.
could involve disruption to supply.
The Groups Groups competitors differ in various segments There is a comprehensive set of policies suppliers are similarly deliberately well spread of the industry.
The Group competes with governing employment and employees to in terms of geography and supplied items, but numerous, well-established, local, regional, ensure that the Group remains an attractive there are nonetheless some risks to continuity national and international companies, some employer.
The Group is committed to the of supply arising from some specialised of which are very large and have significant principle of equal opportunity in employment: suppliers both of raw materials and of third resources with which to establish and defend no applicant or employee receives less party manufactured items.
their products, market shares and brands.
favourable treatment on the grounds of Principal multinational competitors include OuR STRuCTuRe nationality, age, gender, religion or disability.
pharmaceutical companies such as Bayer, The Group structures its business through a GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson and It is essential to the continued improvement in matrix of a centralised category development, Novartis and FMCG companies like Clorox, efficiency and productivity that each employee global sales, supply and support functions Colgate-Palmolive, Henkel, Procter & Gamble, understands the Groups strategies, policies and finance, human resources and information SC Johnson and Unilever.
Open and regular communication services, combined with three area number of strong local industry companies.
with employees at all levels is an essential organisations: ENA, LAPAC and RUMEA, plus part of the management process.
The Board Food and RB Pharmaceuticals.
The central RB competes in strongly branded segments encourages employees to become Shareholders category development function is responsible by focusing on its leading positions in higher and participate in the employee share for Powerbrand strategies, brand equity growth categories.
It is typically the market ownership schemes.
programmes and best practices, and new leader or a close follower, a position obtained product development including research through its ability to introduce new products The Group relies on its brands, brand names and development R&D and consumer and whether improved or newly developed, and intellectual property.
The Groups major market research, for implementation by the supported by a rising and substantial level of brand names are protected by internationally area organisations.
The Group also competition in the industry focuses on maintains patents or other protection for its Our R&D facilities are located at 28 different competing claims for product performance.
significant product formulations, designs and sites many of which are situated in or For this reason, failure to introduce new processing methods.
The Group aggressively alongside our production facilities.
Our main products and gain acceptance may significantly monitors these protections and pursues any R&D facilities are located in Hull England, impact the Groups operating results.
Montvale, New Jersey US, Dongguan China, Group must also defend itself against Salt Lake City US, Ludwigshafen Germany, Our Supply Chain challenges to its leadership positions in Gurgaon India, Mira Italy and Bangkok The Group considers that its primary raw markets: this requires significant marketing Thailand.
materials, such as bulk chemicals including a expenditure and promotional activity.
number of petrochemicals, plastics, pulp, metal Technological change and product The Groups products also compete with private cans etc, are generally in adequate global improvement is a key determinant of our label products sold by major retail companies.
The cost of these items fluctuates from success.
We believe that our success in The Group does this by focusing on delivering time to time but not at levels that seriously introducing new and improved products comes innovative new products with real consumer impinge on the ability of the Group to supply from our focus on developing a pipeline of benefits, which private label typically does its products or generate profit.
The Group is product innovation through consumer-focused not do.
Consistent marketing investment profitable and cash generative.
We maintain a large category communicates the benefits of the Groups believes that its ability to reinvest in supporting development organisation including market brands directly to consumers.
and consumer research, R&D, and marketing and sales best practice to fuel the innovation Technological change and product pipeline and share category success factors improvement can be a key determinant of the and learning.
We undertake R&D to support Groups success.
RBs success in introducing the development and commercialisation of new and improved products stems from its Durex & MTV new and improved products in all of our heavy focus on developing a pipeline of #someonelikeme product categories and for increased product innovation.
The Group maintains a manufacturing efficiencies.
large category development organisation Durex can reach people and with MTV including market and consumer research, R&D The global supply function is responsible for all and regulatory to fuel the innovation pipeline it reached 900 million people across procurement raw and packaging materials and and share category success factors and 36 countries through the internet and services, production and logistics globally, and learnings.
The Group invested 199m in R&D in live music with its #someonelikeme is directly responsible for the operation of the 2013 2012: 171m.
R&D is a key contributor Groups 48 production facilities worldwide.
campaign to promote to innovative new products, but the Group Facilities are located in Europe 15 facilities and great sex, safe from does not believe that R&D spend is the North America six, Asia 18, Latin America dominant performance indicator for innovation transmission of HIV five, and Africa Middle East four.
There are a generation and success.
Understanding of, and and other diseases.
small number of facilities in higher risk labour insights into, consumer behaviour and needs, and social environments.
12 RB Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Operational Detail ability to prioritise and focus effort, and speed to total growth with our acquisitions of Schiff performances.
Scholl, Strepsils and Nurofen in of implementation and reaction are also critical.
and Guilong and our collaboration with BMS particular performed well, behind innovations in Latin America LATAM all performing such as the new Scholl Express Pedi for hard INTeRNATIONAL OPeRATIONS AND strongly, and ahead of ingoing expectations.
skin and Nurofen for Children.
ReGuLATORY POSITION RB Pharmaceuticals net revenue declined by The health and hygiene industries are heavily North America delivered another strong 8% at constant rates due to the loss of our regulated by, inter alia, the European Union performance, driven by Mucinex brand higher margin tablet sales in the US following EU and individual country governments extensions, improved in-store execution our voluntary withdrawal of Suboxone tablets.
The home care industry has and targeted digital and traditional media However market share of Suboxone Film in the regulation, but to a lesser extent.
Lysol also produced an excellent US was sustained at around 68% despite the manufacturing standards, labour standards, result behind innovations such as Power and launch of generic tablets in March.
product safety, marketing and advertising Free, and our recently launched Healthing claims are all subject to detailed and Gross margin increased by 150 bps to 59.4%.
campaign to strengthen our core equity of developing regulation.
This was due to a combination of improved germ protection.
We successfully integrated mix, modest price increases, cost optimisation Schiff in the US.
Over achievement of synergies The Group has a comprehensive set of policies programmes Project Fuel and the nonallowed for increased reinvestment behind and procedures designed to govern its business recurring impact of our withdrawal from the the brands to drive penetration, distribution, methods and practices and protect its private label business.
These improvements improved in-store activities and shelf presence.
These cover, inter alia, a were not as strong in the second half, which The combination of Europe and North America comprehensive Code of Conduct, an also saw adverse currency movements and a under one organisation is bringing greater Environment Policy, a Global Manufacturing stronger comparative.
speed and scale to our innovations such as the Standard, a Product Safety Policy including launch of MegaRed in Europe just one year compliance with regulatory and product We raised investment behind our brands as after acquisition.
Internal controls on defined by our BEI metric, by 30 bps to environmental, social, and governance ESG 13.0% of net revenue ex RB Pharmaceuticals, Adjusted operating profit was 1,321m an matters and reputational risk are further equating to an incremental 100m investment increase of 12% at constant.
The adjusted outlined in pages 15 to 19 of this Report.
over the prior year at constant rates.
The operating margin increased 160 bps.
increase in brand equity investment is focused We take compliance extremely seriously and LAPAC.
2013 total net revenue increased to on Powerbrands, Powermarkets and new have committed resource and management 2,511m, with like-for-like growth of 10%.
initiatives, as well as our newly acquired brands.
Additionally the China experienced strong growth as we Group maintains and continues to improve We also increased investment behind executed our power city roll out plans, and a robust compliance training programme, capabilities important to our future growth in increased distribution.
On a category basis ensuring that all senior managers sign an particular in the areas of consumer health and Durex had a strong performance driven by annual disclosure, and executive management emerging markets.
innovation and targeted digital and social sign additionally a reporting document media campaigns.
In hygiene, Dettol grew Operating profit as reported was 2,345m, certifying compliance with the Groups Code strongly behind innovations in anti-bacterial -4% versus 2012 -4% constant, reflecting the of Conduct.
soaps, shower gels and antiseptics, and our impact of an exceptional pre-tax charge of new Dettol kitchen gel, underpinned by our OuR PeRFORMANCe IN 2013 271m 2012: 135m.
Details of the Healthing campaign for new mums and kids.
The results include the business of Schiff from exceptional charge are set out in note 3 and In home, Vanish had a strong year as we 14 December 2012, Guilong from 8 January relate to a provision for historic regulatory refocused on winning penetration through 2013, and BMS from 8 May 2013, the dates of issues, principally competition law, restructuring our successful online Vanish Tip Exchange acquisition start of the collaboration.
Where costs in relation to the new organisation, and programme in a number of countries.
appropriate, the term like-for-like describes acquisition and integration costs.
On an the performance of the business on a adjusted basis, operating profit was ahead Adjusted operating profit increased 12% comparable basis, excluding the impact of 2% 1% constant to 2,616m.
Adjusted operating margin was acquisitions, disposals, discontinued operations operating margin decreased by -90 bps to -30 bps lower at 19.7%.
The margin was and translational foreign exchange movements.
Excluding RB Pharmaceuticals, the reduced due to the amortisation of the BMS Where appropriate, the term base business adjusted operating margin increased by collaboration agreement, which commenced includes ENA, LAPAC, RUMEA and Food.
in May 2013. business excludes RB Pharmaceuticals.
Where Net finance expense was 31m 2012: 34m.
2013 net revenue was 1,356m, with appropriate, the term core includes health, The tax rate was 25% after deducting like-for-like growth of 5%.
Growth has been hygiene, home and portfolio brands and the exceptional charge, and 24% for impacted by socio-economic issues in parts of excludes RB Pharmaceuticals and Food.
We are also experiencing operational appropriate, the term adjusted excludes the issues in Turkey and South Africa.
A number of impact of exceptional items.
Net income as reported was 1,739m, a corrective actions have been put in place and decrease of -5% -5% constant versus 2012.
Total net revenue was 10,043m, an increase are showing modest early results.
On an adjusted basis, net income rose 2% of 7% at constant exchange rates excluding 2% constant.
Diluted earnings per share of However, a further slowing of market RB Pharmaceuticals or 5% like-for-like ex 238.5p was -4% lower on a reported basis: on conditions in Russia impacted growth in Q4 RB Pharmaceuticals.
Our like-for-like growth an adjusted basis, the growth was 2% which was 3% on a like-for-like basis.
In was health and hygiene led as we continue to 269.8p.
spite of the slowing environment Nurofen to focus on and invest disproportionately in experienced strong growth in Q4 as we have these categories, delivering science-based Segmental Performance At Constant now lapped the upscheduling in Russia.
In innovations, brand extensions and geographic exchange Rates hygiene, Veet, Dettol and Mortein had a good roll outs.
Mucinex, Durex, Dettol and Lysol The three geographical areas are responsible quarter to complete a year of strong growth.
From a for local execution of marketing and sales geographic perspective over two-thirds of the programmes: Adjusted operating profit declined by -2% to contribution to like-for-like growth came from 284m, a -120 bps decline in the adjusted eNA.
Total net revenue was 5,074m, with our emerging market areas of LAPAC and operating margin to 20.9%.
Gross margin like-for-like growth of 3% and total growth RUMEA.
Our developed market area of ENA enhancement from improved mix and pricing of 4%.
2013 was a strong year for ENA with delivered like-for-like growth of 3%, a very was more than offset by increased investment growth returning to most parts of Europe, with strong performance in challenging market in BEI and capabilities to support future growth, the exception of Southern Europe.
The impact of net M&A added 2% adverse transactional FX and employee-related consumer health Powerbrands delivered strong RB Annual Report 2013 13 Strategic Report Operational Detail costs from management changes as we address currently under-treated markets.
We also have emerging market areas driven by the continued the operational issues.
a strong pipeline, as we look to deliver to success of Lysol Dettol hand wash foam in the patients the next generation products for US, Germany, Korea and China.
The volatility in several of RUMEAs markets opioid addiction.
These longer-term prospects is likely to remain in the near term.
However Harpic continued its strong momentum behind will be tempered with short-term volatility.
We we remain confident that the organisational penetration programmes and the launch of our continue to expect erosion of Film share with and operational changes being put in place, All-in-1 line extension in India.
some more price sensitive patients and payors together with our focus and strategy to drive switching to cheaper alternatives.
We are Home the penetration of our brands should improve pleased to announce that we have recently Net revenue increased to 1,974m, a like-forperformance in the future.
appointed a new Chairman, Howard Pien, who like growth rate of 2%.
Vanish had a very The Groups two non-core businesses, Food will play an important part in the next stage of strong final quarter as we refocused the and RB Pharmaceuticals, performed as follows: RB Pharmaceuticals evolution.
strategy on penetration, underpinned by the launch of our successful online Vanish Tip Food.
2013 net revenue was 325m, a flat The strategic review we announced in October Exchange campaign in Europe and a number performance versus the prior year and also of last year is underway.
We will provide further of our emerging market countries.
Macro conditions information on this review during the course surrounding the food category remain of 2014.
Portfolio unchanged with weaker markets and Net revenue decreased to 499m, with a lower inflation.
CATeGORY PeRFORMANCe like-for-like decline of -12%.
This was due Health principally to actions taken in the European RB Pharmaceuticals.
2013 net revenue was Net revenue increased to 2,633m with footwear business and continued weakness 777m, a decrease of 8%.
Our volume market like-for-like growth of 10%.
It was a very in laundry detergents and fabric softeners in share for Film in the US exited the year at strong year for our consumer health category Southern Europe.
68%, broadly maintained since the entry of which had an excellent start.
The underlying volume growth FINANCIAL ReVIew growth was driven by Mucinex, with its further in prescriptions in the US continues to be low Basis of Preparation: The financial expansion beyond cough and congestion into double digit growth.
This growth is offset by information is prepared in accordance with sinus and cold & flu, and aided by a long and the loss of our higher margin tablet sales in IFRSs as endorsed by the EU and IFRSs as issued strong season during the first half.
These the US following our voluntary withdrawal of by the International Accounting Standards successes provide a firm base on which to Suboxone tablets in March and the entry of Board, with applicable parts of the 2006 launch a further category extension within the generic tablets now competing with our Film.
Companies Act and with the accounting Mucinex franchise, with the roll out of Mucinex Our non-US business was impacted by policies set out in note 1 on pages 54 to 57.
Allergy 24-hour relief from indoor and government imposed price reductions in a outdoor allergies, in 2014.
Constant exchange: Movements in exchange number of European markets.
rates relative to Sterling affect actual results as Our consumer health acquisitions are Operating profit decreased -21% to 428m.
The constant exchange rate basis performing strongly.
In respect of Schiff in the The operating margin was down -890 bps to adjusts the comparative to exclude such US the over achievement of synergies allowed 55.1%, in line with earlier guidance.
The main movements, to show the underlying growth for increased reinvestment behind the brands, drivers of the margin decline are negative of the Group.
improved shelf presence and distribution.
In leverage from the revenue decline, negative mix China our Manyanshuning sore throat brand, Net Revenue: Net revenue was 10,043m of the lower margin albeit more sustainable which came with the Guilong acquisition, 2012: 9,567m, an increase of 5%.
Film, and increased R&D investment in our has had a strong year, and we are seeing clinical pipeline.
We expect this increase in R&D Net Finance expense: Net finance expense encouraging results from our collaboration investment to continue into 2014 and beyond was 31m 2012: 34m.
agreement with BMS in LATAM.
as we continue to build a strong, sustainable Tax: The effective tax rate was 25% 2012: growth business.
This increase was primarily due to the Net revenue increased to 3,835m, with There have been no further material non-deductability of the exceptional items.
The performance developments in the three Hatch-Waxman The adjusted tax rate was 24%.
was driven by strong growth in the Dettol Lysol challenges to the Film patents in US.
We expect franchise across all three of our areas.
Our Net working Capital: Net working capital the litigation to follow the typical timelines Healthing campaign, combined with the inventories, trade and other receivables and for Hatch-Waxman litigation, and believe the continued expansion and success of the Power trade and other payables was minus 863m formulation and process patent protection to & Free portfolio, drove growth across ENA.
emerging market areas we continue to focus Cash Flow: Cash generated from operations RB Pharmaceuticals is a strong, sustainable on driving brand equity building initiatives such was 2,756m 2012: 2,423m and net cash business with good long-term prospects.
It as our new mums hospital visit, and schools generated from operating activities was has a market-leading, physician and patient programmes.
Net interest paid preferred product in the US, with strong patent of Dettol Kitchen Gel has driven strong growth was 24m 2012: 7m and tax payments were protection up until 2030.
The business outside in India for both Q4 and the full year.
Capital expenditure of the US has much potential in what are wash was strong in both developed and was higher than the prior year at 225m 2012: 177m.
Acquisition of businesses of 418m related to the acquisition of Guilong and 2013 Results excluding RB Pharmaceuticals collaboration agreement with BMS.
In light of the announcement of generic competition to Suboxone in the US, the Group provides Net Debt: At the end of the year net debt the following information relating to the performance of the business in 2013 excluding was 2,096m 2012: 2,426m.
strong free cash flow generation, offset by the RB ex RB RB payment of two dividends totalling 992m Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals Total RB m % m % m % and the acquisition of businesses for 418m.
The Group regularly reviews its banking Net revenue 9,266 5% 777 -8% 10,043 4% arrangements and currently has adequate Adjusted operating profit 2,188 7% 428 -21% 2,616 1% facilities available to it.
The Group issued two Adjusted operating margin 23.6% 55.1% 26.0% bonds in September 2013. like-for-like at constant exchange rates at constant exchange rates 14 RB Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Operational Detail ANNuAL KeY PeRFORMANCe INDICATORS KPIs The Board and the Executive Committee have identified a number of KPIs that are most relevant to the Group and are used to measure performance.
KPI 2013 2012 Comments Net revenue growth excl.
RB Pharmaceuticals 5% 5% Measures the increase in sales of the Group % like-for-like growth of net revenue excl.
RB Pharmaceuticals at constant exchange rates Powerbrands 71% 70% Measures the growth and importance of the % of total net revenue from 19 Powerbrands Groups flagship brands Gross margin % 59.4% 57.9% Measures the resources available for reinvestment Gross profit as % of total net revenue or profit growth Brand Equity Investment BEI 13.0% 12.7% Measures the rate of reinvestment in the BEI as % of total net revenue excl.
RB Pharmaceuticals Groups brands excl.
RB Pharmaceuticals Operating margin % excl.
RB Pharmaceuticals 23.6% 23.4% Measures the profitability of the Group excl.
RB Pharmaceuticals Adjusted net income 2% 6% Measures the overall profitability of the Group 1 Earnings per share fully diluted 269.8p 263.3p Measures the increase in profit per share of the Group % change in earnings per share fully diluted 2% 7% Net cash flow from operations 1,930m 1,735m Measures how the Group converts its profits into cash 11% 10% Net working capital -863m -700m Measures the ability of the Group to finance defined as inventories, trade and other receivables and -8.6% -7.3% its expansion and release cash from working capital trade and other payables as % of total net revenue Management turnover 4% 8% % of Top400 management that have left the Group Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items.
Refer to note 1 for further details.
exceptional Items: A total pre-tax exceptional full year dividend of 137p per share 2012: The Board regularly considers and takes charge of 271m has been incurred during the 134p, an overall increase of 2%.
The account of the significance of sustainability year in respect of the following: dividend, if approved by Shareholders at the matters, their potential risks to the business of AGM on 7 May 2014, will be paid on 29 May the Group and the opportunities to enhance 225m charge for historic regulatory issues, to Shareholders on the register at the record value that may arise from an appropriate principally competition law: and date of 21 February.
The ex-dividend date was response including risks relating to 46m restructuring costs in relation to 19 February and the last date for election for environmental impacts, employees, society the new organisation, acquisition and the share alternative to the dividend is 7 May.
and communities, as well as reputational risks.
The final dividend will be accrued once The Board undertakes a formal review of approved by Shareholders.
sustainability matters at least annually.
This These costs have previously been disclosed by includes providing oversight to ensure that the the Company.
In 2012 an exceptional pre-tax Contingent Liabilities: The Group is involved Group has in place effective policies, systems charge of 135m was incurred.
in a number of investigations by government and procedures for managing sustainability authorities and has made provisions for such Balance Sheet: At the end of 2013, the Group matters and mitigating significant sustainability investigations, where appropriate.
Where it is had total equity of 6,336m 2012: 5,922m, risks.
The Board believes that it receives too early to determine the likely outcome of an increase of 7%.
Net debt was 2,096m adequate information and training on these matters or to make a reliable estimate, 2012: 2,426m and total capital employed in sustainability matters and their potential risks the Directors have made no provision for such the business was 8,432m 2012: 8,348m.
and opportunities to the business of the Group.
Additionally, the Audit Committee regularly This finances non-current assets of 12,248m The Group from time to time is involved in reviews the arrangements for, and effectiveness 2012: 12,009m, of which 761m 2012: discussions in relation to ongoing tax matters of, risk management and internal audit 736m is property, plant and equipment, the in a number of jurisdictions around the world.
including the full range of risks facing the remainder being goodwill, other intangible Where appropriate, the Directors make Group such as risks relating to sustainability assets, deferred tax, available for sale financial provisions based on their assessment of matters, reputational risks and risks relating assets, retirement benefit surplus and other each case.
The Group has net working capital of minus 863m 2012: minus 700m, current OuR SuSTAINABILITY STRATeGY The CEO has specific responsibility for provisions of 215m 2012: 104m and & PeRFORMANCe sustainability.
As part of established long-term liabilities other than borrowings In line with the requirements of the 2006 management processes, which include of 2,554m 2012: 2,678m.
Companies Act, a rationale has been developed performance management systems and and a review undertaken to determine what appropriate remuneration incentives, senior The Groups financial ratios remain strong.
information to include in this Report as management reports directly to the CEO on Return on Shareholders funds net income necessary for an understanding of the sustainability matters on a regular basis.
On the divided by total Shareholders funds was development, performance and position of the Executive Committee EC, the EVP Category 27.5% on a reported basis and 31.1% on an business of the Group relating to environmental Development has operational accountability adjusted basis 2012: 30.8% on a reported matters including the impact of the Groups for the implementation of sustainability bar basis and 32.7% on an adjusted basis.
business on the environment, its employees, charitable giving, in partnership with the EVP Dividends: The Board recommends a final and social and community issues referred to Supply, and supported by the rest of the EC dividend of 77p per share 2012: 78p to give a in this Report as sustainability matters.
within their respective areas and functions.
RB Annual Report 2013 15 Strategic Report Operational Detail In the category development organisation, potential sustainability risks, the issues of Supply Chain Responsibility and the Category Group Director Sustainability, greatest concern for the Groups stakeholders, Human Rights Sourcing & Consumer Sciences manages the the issues that society has identified as Most product, component and raw material sustainability programme on a day-to-day basis.
important through regulation and international supply chains present a number of potential Our Senior Vice President SVP of Corporate standards and those issues covered by our reputational risks relating to: labour standards: Communication and Affairs is responsible for existing policies and commitments.
health, safety and environmental standards: the Groups strategic charitable giving.
The raw material sourcing: and the social, ethical R&D function includes the Global Regulatory and environmental performance of third party Key sustainability issues for Affairs GRA group, which is responsible for manufacturers and other suppliers.
The Groups the business ensuring that our products meet regulatory Global Manufacturing Standard for responsible Sustainable product innovation requirements and are safe for their intended production GMS mandates minimum Hygiene and illness-prevention use.
Our SVP Human Resources HR and requirements regarding employment the global HR function manage the Groups arrangements, labour standards and health, Human rights human resources, employee remuneration and safety and environmental management, in Consumer behaviour change benefits, employment practices, organisational line with international guidelines, for the development, training and elements of health Groups own manufacturing sites, third party Responsible supply chain and safety e. g. stress management.
Management Product stewardship processes and controls in place include Key areas of sustainability internal control Group, area and regional monitoring and Natural raw material sourcing and performance, including sustainability assessment of compliance with the GMS disclosures, are independently reviewed Environmental impact reduction and other requirements.
and verified by both internal and external water, energy, greenhouse gas organisations, including Internal Audit, and Climate Change emissions GHG, waste their findings regularly reported to senior The effects of climate change could disrupt the Pollution contaminated land management, the CEO, the Audit Committee Groups supply chain by affecting the Groups and the Board.
The Board has identified and ability to source raw materials, manufacture Health and safety assessed the range of sustainability and products and distribute products.
Due to the associated reputational risks and concluded Groups industry sectors and product categories that there are limited material risks to the Strategic Sustainability Priorities the GHG emissions originating from energy use Groups long and short-term value arising from The aspects the Group has identified are at its direct operations are of medium-to-low sustainability matters, other than potential risks common to many fast moving consumer impact in comparison to those of other similarly common to similarly sized businesses operating goods FMCG companies with well-known sized companies, as assessed for example in in its industry sectors and with similarly brands and are essentially determined by the recent reports of the independent Carbon well-known brands.
Groups sectors and the products the Group Disclosure Project CDP, www.
The Groups strategic The Group has a full set of policies, Under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and priorities therefore remain: programmes and control arrangements, Directors Report Regulations 2013, quoted building on its central Code of Conduct, that 1 To achieve continual improvement in our companies are required to report their annual address the full range of sustainability matters overall sustainability performance, focusing carbon emissions.
For the period 1 January and reputational risks.
The Code itself is the on those issues where we can make a 2013 to 31 December 2013 the Groups subject of an annual training and awareness significant difference including global health emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide programme, and is covered by an annual review and hygiene, sustainable product innovation, equivalents tCO e from: 2 and certification process carried out by Internal greenhouse gas GHG emissions and water Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities Audit and the Legal Department.
The Code and impact: and Scope 1 were 80,806 tCOe.
2 other Group policies relating to sustainability 2 To manage our business in a socially and can be found at www.
Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased ethically responsible manner.
for own use Scope 2 were 206,956 tCOe.
2 Sustainability Focus Areas The Groups approach to sustainability, in The Group has identified the key sustainability Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions were support of the Groups vision, purpose and issues for the business, following 287,762 tCOe.
2 business strategy, includes four key goals Accountabilitys 5-Part Materiality Test and the for 2020: The Groups intensity measurement for the GRI Technical Protocol on Applying the Report same period was 0.0398 tCOe per unit of 2 Content Principles.
This process includes an One-third reduction in carbon footprint and production tCO e per 1000 CU.
2 assessment of the Groups significant aspects, water impact per dose of product.
Data assured by Ernst & Young One-third of net revenue from more sustainable products.
Methodology for Calculating the Annual Carbon emissions Help over 200 million people to improve their We have reported on all of the emission sources Mucinex When the health and hygiene.
required under the Companies Act 2006 Partner with Save the Children to deliver a Strategic and Directors Report Regulations Cough Starts vision of stopping diarrhoea from being the 2013.
We report all GHG emissions from worlds second biggest cause of death of operations including global manufacturing, Americans search online when their children under five.
warehouse, R&D covered by the consolidated coughs and colds start.
RB partnered with financial statements for which we have These high level goals are supported by specific a uS specialist counting who was going operational control with the exception of targets and functional programmes, grouped online where, so when offices emissions and MEDCOM fleet under three areas: better design, better an area of the uS was emissions.
We will endeavour to include production and healthier communities.
The office and MEDCOM fleet emissions in 2014 starting to catch a cold, Group focuses on a number of specific topics reporting.
In the case of acquisitions of Mucinex was advertising to deliver against the strategic priorities.
These businesses, the emissions are included in include, but are not limited to: right there to tell them the first full calendar year of RB ownership.
CO e emissions were calculated using 2 internationally recognised methodologies from 16 RB Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Operational Detail the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol and lost working day accident rate between 2012 The Groups activities expose it to a number International Energy Authority IEA.
and 2013: zero fatalities in 2013. of risks which, while actively managed, as described above, may still adversely impact the The Group has taken a leadership position The Groups 2012 Sustainability Report, business and its financials.
The principal risks with regard to its products total carbon published on 31 May 2013, describes progress that, in the opinion of the Directors, pose the footprint, by seeking to understand, measure made in key sustainability topics.
For example: most significant threat to the delivery of the and reduce the GHG emissions generated by At the end of 2012, the Group had achieved Groups strategic objectives are as follows, all stages in the product lifecycle for its global a 25% reduction in lifecycle carbon with a more expansive explanation provided product portfolio, and including amongst other emissions per dose compared to the 2007 on pages 93 to 100 of this report.
The Group things: the raw and packaging materials baseline.
This was a reduction of 4.6% recognises the risks described here and has provided by its suppliers: the Groups own compared to 2011. taken measures, addressed in this report and direct manufacturing and other operations: in previous reports, to mitigate these risks.
transportation of both raw materials and Our continued support of the international finished products: the retail sale of its charity Save the Children, reaching 150,000 We could be adversely affected by economic products: consumers use of its products: and children in 2012. conditions in, and political developments the disposal recycling of those products and affecting, the markets in which we operate.
The 2013 Sustainability Report will be published their packaging.
A variety of factors may adversely affect our in April 2014 and will provide a full update on results of operations and financial condition RBs Global Ingredient Guidelines GIG progress towards meeting our new during periods of economic uncertainty or RB has been monitoring and reviewing sustainability goals and targets.
instability, social or labour unrest or political ingredients for the past 12 years and has been The sustainability and corporate responsibility upheaval in the markets in which we operate.
carrying out a range of ingredients removal and section on the Groups website www.
com Such periods may also lead to government restriction programmes outlined in our GIG.
sustainability and its annual sustainability actions, such as imposition of martial law, Our objective is to continually improve the reports available at www.
com provide trade restrictions, foreign ownership environmental, safety and sustainable profile of further information on its policies, systems and restrictions, capital, price or currency controls, our products, by systematically removing procedures for managing sustainability matters nationalisation or expropriation of property specific ingredients from product formulae and and the risks and opportunities that may arise or other resources, or changes in legal and packaging device component specifications.
from them, including: the extent to which it regulatory requirements and taxation regimes.
Our GIG combines regulatory, sustainability and complies with those policies, systems and We may also be unable to access credit markets safety requirements for generic ingredient procedures: Key Performance Indicators KPIs : materially adversely affecting our liquidity and groupings, plus specific directions on the use and its sustainability programmes, targets and capital resources or cost of capital.
or the prohibition of use of specific raw progress.
The Group reports in line with the Our Powerbrands collectively contribute a materials ingredients to assist formulators and Global Reporting Initiatives Sustainability significant portion of our revenue, and any other Company employees in the development Reporting Guidelines Version 3.0 GRI G3 material adverse change to demand for existing and marketing of products that meet these www.
org and a Content Index Powerbrands, or any future products we may commitments.
and Application Level Table is provided in the develop, could have a material adverse effect Sustainability Report.
Selected data in the Health and Safety Management on our business.
annual Sustainability Report is assured by Accidents caused through a failure of the Consumer preferences, tastes and habits external auditors.
Groups safety management systems could are constantly evolving.
Various factors, potentially lead to loss of life for one or more For more information see our 2012 some of which are beyond our control, may of the Groups employees.
The Group maintains Sustainability Report, published on 31 May have an adverse impact on demand for our an external certification to OHSAS 18001 for 2013, at www.
Similarly, we may fail to the Groups management of heath and and also our 2013 Sustainability Report, to be respond to changing consumer wants or safety issues and a programme covering published in April 2014. fail to differentiate our Powerbrands from manufacturing sites, warehouses, distribution competitors products, both of which PRINCIPAL RISKS centres and laboratories.
could adversely impact consumer demand RB operates a major risk assessment process for our products.
Progress to identify, assess, control, mitigate and review The Group has a long-standing record of those risks it considers to be most significant Our business, financial condition, and results of measuring and managing sustainability issues.
to the successful execution of our strategy.
The operations, substantially depend on our ability Progress to date includes: most senior managers of our business dedicate to improve our existing products, and time each year in a facilitated discussion with successfully develop and launch new products A 16% reduction in GHG emissions the Group risk team to consider the risk and technologies.
from manufacturing & warehouse sites environment for their particular functional or If we are unable to successfully develop, 2000-2013. geographic area of responsibility and how their launch and market new products that obtain Continuation of RBs tree planting initiative emerging or known risks could impact on the consumer interest and acceptance, we may be for three more years 2012 2014.
By the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives: unable to compete and maintain or grow our end of 2013, 6.15 million native trees had similar sessions are held with the Groups market share.
If we enter new categories or been planted in Canada including 351,000 external advisors.
The key content from these geographies in which we have limited in 2013 which continues to make RBs sessions are then synthesised into the Groups experience, we may be exposed to unexpected manufacturing operations effectively carbon Top Ten risks, with each risk having an EC or greater risks.
neutral 2006-2014. owner, who is accountable for executing the Substantial harm to our reputation, or the current control strategy and for compiling and A 52% reduction in manufacturing and reputation of one or more of our brands, may executing a plan of mitigating actions to warehouse energy per unit of production materially adversely affect our business.
properly manage the Groups exposure to that 2000-2013.
Various factors may adversely impact our risk.
Progress is reviewed periodically and the reputation, including product quality A 43% reduction per unit of production of full output from the major risk assessment inconsistencies or contamination resulting in water use 2000-2013. process is formally submitted annually by the recalls.
Reputational risks may also arise from EC to the Board for its consideration and A 9% reduction per unit of production of our third parties labour standards, health, endorsement.
Through the course of each year, waste 2000-2013. safety and environmental standards, raw the EC and Board agendas address all of the material sourcing, and ethical standards.
We A 93% reduction in accident rates since top risks through specific deep dives to ensure may also be the victim of product tampering or 2001, including over 5% reduction in the proper focus and progress with mitigation.
Any litigation, RB Annual Report 2013 17 Strategic Report Operational Detail disputes on tax matters and pay structures may Volatility in the price of commodities, energy systems in such countries may not be wellsubject us to negative attention in the press, and transportation may impact our profitability.
established, reliable or enforced and there may which can damage reputation.
Increases in cost or decreases in availability be difficulties in obtaining legal redress, could adversely affect our profitability if we are particularly against the state or state-owned We could be materially adversely affected by unable to pass on the higher costs as price entities, creating higher operational costs and the loss of revenue from the sales of Suboxone increases or achieve cost efficiencies.
Our RB Pharmaceuticals business may face We have grown, and may continue to grow, in We could be subject to investigations and price pressure or share loss from the increased part, through acquisitions, joint ventures and potential enforcement action, which could have branded and generic competition that is business alliances, which involve various risks.
a material adverse effect on our business.
entering the market both in the US and in Acquisitions present a range of risks and We could be subject to regulatory investigations the rest of world leading to a material uncertainties, in addition to the risk of or potential enforcement action that targets reduction in net revenue from this product management resource requirements to handle ingredients, an industry, a set of business adversely affecting our overall revenues and the acquisition and the base business practices or our specific operations.
There could be increased debt authorities and consumer groups may request and interest payments to fund larger acquisitions, or conduct reviews of the use of certain of our We could be impacted by the fact we compete which could place pressure on our credit rating.
ingredients, or ingredient legislation may in intensely competitive industries.
We may fail in achieving an acquisition yet still change.
These could result in a need to change We compete with well-established local, bear substantial out-of-pocket expenses.
We our formulations which could be costly or may regional, national and international companies may fail to achieve projected benefits of an not be possible.
including private label and generics.
Some of acquisition, or we may take on unforeseen these may have more resources to establish Historical or future violations of antitrust and future liabilities with an acquisition.
If we are unable competition laws may have a material adverse to offer products that consumers choose over We may be unable to attract and retain impact on our business, financial condition and our competitors products, or maintain qualified personnel, including key results of operations.
successful relationships with our trade senior management.
Failure to comply with applicable antitrust and customers, who determine access to shelf space The market for talent is intensely competitive competition laws, rules and regulations in any and promotions, or to effectively compete in and we could face challenges in sourcing jurisdiction may result in civil and or criminal new channels, our business and results could qualified personnel.
If we are unable to achieve legal proceedings.
As part of the announcement be materially impacted.
our performance targets, our senior management of our HY 2013 results, we reported a provision would not be entitled to their variable pay, of 225m, principally relating to competition We are exposed to foreign currency exchange which may operate as a disincentive for them matters.
Our ultimate liability for such matters rate risk.
to continue their employment with us.
In FY 2013, 93% of our net revenue was derived from markets outside the UK.
The A disruption to, or failure of, our information We operate in a number of countries in which Sterling value of our revenues, profits and cash technology systems and infrastructure, may bribery and corruption pose significant risks, flows from non-UK markets may be reduced or adversely affect our business.
and we may be exposed to liabilities under our supply costs, as measured in Sterling in Failures or disruptions to our systems or the anti-bribery laws for any violations.
Any those markets, may increase.
Additionally, systems of third parties on whom we rely, violation of applicable money laundering laws competitors may benefit if they incur costs in due to any number of causes, particularly if could also have a negative impact on us.
weaker currencies relative to Sterling.
We prolonged, or, if any failure or disruption were We are subject to the UK Bribery Act 2010, the currently hedge some of our currency exposures to impact our backup or disaster recovery plans, US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as using financial instruments, but we may not could result in a loss of key data and or affect amended, and similar laws worldwide.
Sub-optimal implementations our extensive international operations, we are of new systems could occur.
Our computer exposed to significant risks, particularly with We are subject to the risk that countries in systems, software and networks may be respect to parties not subject to our control which we operate may impose or increase vulnerable to unauthorised access, computer such as agents and joint venture partners, and exchange controls or devalue their currency.
viruses or other malicious code and other cyber also through businesses we acquire.
We operate in markets which have been known threats that could have a security impact.
All to impose exchange controls.
Such controls Our business is subject to product of these could be costly to remedy and we may may restrict or make it impossible to repatriate liability claims.
earnings, borrow on the international markets We may be subject to legal proceedings and to fund operations in that country or limit our Our business is subject to significant claims arising out of our products, including ability to import raw materials or finished governmental regulation.
as a result of unanticipated side effects or products.
Additionally we operate in markets Regulation is imposed in respect of, but issues that become evident only after products that are prone to currency devaluations which not limited to, ingredients, manufacturing are widely introduced into the marketplace can make our products more expensive in local standards, labour standards, product safety or additionally claims that our products are currency terms.
and quality, marketing, packaging, labelling, defective, contain contaminants, provide storage, distribution, advertising, imports and inadequate warnings or instructions, or We face risks of interruptions of our supply exports, social and environmental responsibility cause personal injury to persons or damage chain and disruptions in our production and health and safety.
These regulations can to property.
We may be required to pay facilities, which could materially adversely affect change and may become more stringent.
compensation for losses or injuries or have our results of operations.
Additionally we are required to obtain, maintain to pay substantial damages, and related costs, We may face risks to continuity of supply arising and update licences for some products.
If we or additionally be subject to the imposition of from certain specialised suppliers, both of raw are found to be non-compliant with applicable civil and criminal sanctions.
materials and of third party manufactured items.
laws and regulations, we could be subject to Significant disruptions to our own, or our Legal proceedings in respect of claims outside civil remedies such as fines, injunctions or suppliers operations, may affect our ability to the product liability area could also adversely product recalls, and or criminal sanctions.
source raw materials and negatively impact our impact our business, results of operations and costs.
Suppliers may fail to fulfil their contractual The laws and regulations to which we financial condition.
Replacing suppliers may require are subject may not be transparent, may Outside the product liability area, we are them to be qualified under industry, be difficult to interpret, and or may be subject to legal proceedings and other claims governmental or our standards, which could enforced inconsistently.
arising out of the ordinary course of business require investment and may take time.
Emerging markets can pose heightened risks including, but not limited to, claims alleging with respect to laws and regulations.
The legal intellectual property rights infringement, breach 18 RB Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Operational Detail of contract, environmental laws and health and At 31 December 2013, we had 4,350m in a going concern and maintain an efficient safety laws, and advertising claims.
If we are not able to capital structure to optimise the cost of capital.
claims, or a substantial number of small claims, access the commercial paper market to the The Group monitors net debt total borrowings may be expensive to defend and may divert extent that we require, we may need to less cash and cash equivalents: short-term management time and resources away from drawdown amounts under our committed available for sale financial assets and financing our operations.
bilateral credit facilities, which accrue interest at derivative financial instruments and at the year floating rates.
Increases in such rates could result end the Group had net debt of 2,096m Labour disruptions may affect the results of in significantly higher interest expense for us.
The Group seeks to pay our operations.
down net debt using cash generated by the A substantial portion of our workforce is We are subject to risks relating to estimates and business to maintain an appropriate level unionised, and we are party to collective assumptions that we are required to make, and of financial flexibility.
Details of numerical bargaining agreements covering approximately that may affect the reported amounts in our disclosures relating to the Groups financial risk one-third of our direct employees.
management are included in note 14 to the to negotiate these agreements satisfactorily or The preparation of our financial statements financial statements on pages 70 to 73. our relationship with unions, including labour requires management to make some estimates disputes or work stoppages, could have an and assumptions based on managements best A more detailed explanation of risks is on adverse impact on our business.
Actual amounts may page 93. however ultimately differ from those estimates.
Changes in tax legislation and other OuR PROSPeCTS circumstances that affect tax calculations could We are subject to a range of compliance and We are targeting: adversely affect our financial condition and routine risks as part of everyday business.
In order to manage the more numerous and We are subject to tax laws and transfer pricing routine risks, the Group maintains a complete Flat to moderate operating margin regulations in multiple jurisdictions, including and robust governance framework.
those relating to the flow of funds between RB We may face risks based on changes to These targets exclude RB Pharmaceuticals.
Our effective tax rate in any market prices.
At constant rates including the immaterial impact given financial year reflects a variety of factors Due to the nature of its business the Group is of the BMS collaboration.
that may not be present in succeeding financial exposed to commodity price risk related to the years, and may be affected by changes in the Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items.
production or packaging of finished goods such tax laws of the jurisdictions in which we as oil-related, and a diverse range of other, raw Post Balance Sheet event operate.
Tax authorities may challenge our materials.
This risk is, however, managed On 24 February 2014 part of a current wider arrangements and if material challenges were primarily through medium-term contracts with legal case was settled, which related to one of to be successful, our effective tax rate may certain key suppliers and is not viewed as being the current provisions held at the balance sheet increase, and we may incur significant costs.
The Group is not exposed to date.
The remaining provisions that were held Any of the foregoing could materially and equity securities price risk.
in relation to this case at the balance sheet date adversely affect our business.
are still considered to be appropriate.
We are subject to risks related to interest We may be unable to secure and protect our rate changes.
Cautionary Note Concerning Forward intellectual property rights.
The Group has both interest-bearing and non Looking Statements Even if obtained, these rights may be interest-bearing assets and liabilities.
The Group This document contains forward looking invalidated, circumvented or challenged in monitors its interest expense rate exposure on a statements, including statements with respect to future, and third parties may infringe on, or the financial condition, results of operations and regular basis.
The Group manages its interest misappropriate, our rights.
We may fail to business of RB and certain of the plans and rate exposure on its gross financial assets by discover any infringements of our intellectual objectives of the Company with respect to these using fixed rate term deposits.
property rights, or be unable to successfully items.
These forward looking statements are made defend and enforce our rights.
There is potential for credit risks with financial pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the United States private securities litigation reform act institutions around the globe.
The loss of patent protection, ineffective of 1995.
In particular, all statements that express The Group has no significant concentrations of protection, or expiry of our patents may impact forecasts, expectations and projections with credit risk.
Financial institution counterparties our financial condition and results of operations.
respect to future matters, including trends in are subject to approval under the Groups Patent protection varies in different countries, results of operations, margins, growth rates, counterparty risk policy and such approval is overall market trends, the impact of interest or and can be substantially weaker in emerging limited to financial institutions with a BBB exchange rates, the availability of financing to the markets.
We may face challenges in enforcing rating or above.
The Group uses BBB and Company, anticipated cost savings or synergies or extending our current intellectual property higher rated counterparties to manage risk and and the completion of strategic transactions are protections, or any protections we may obtain uses BBB rated counterparties by exception.
These forward in future, in these markets.
looking statements are not guarantees of future The amount of exposure to any individual performance: by their nature, forward looking We may face challenges to our intellectual counterparty is subject to a limit defined within statements involve known and unknown risk and property rights, including allegations of the counterparty risk policy, which is reassessed uncertainty and other factors because they relate infringement of others rights.
to events and depend on circumstances that will If we are unable to successfully defend against occur in the future.
There are a number of factors, Liquidity Risk these challenges, we may face various discussed in this Annual Report that could cause The Group has bilateral credit facilities with sanctions, including injunctions, monetary actual results and developments to differ materially high-quality international banks.
All of these sanctions, product recalls, alterations to our from those expressed or implied by these forward facilities have similar or equivalent terms and intellectual property, products, and or looking statements, including many factors outside conditions, and have a financial covenant, RBs control.
Past performance cannot be relied packaging, which could result in significant which is not expected to restrict the Groups upon as a guide to future performance.
Each expense and negative publicity.
The committed borrowing forward looking statement speaks as of the date Our business may be adversely affected by our facilities, together with available uncommitted of the particular statement.
facilities and central cash and investments, are Our liquidity needs are driven by our ability to considered sufficient to meet the Groups By Order of the Board generate cash from operations and the level of projected cash requirements.
Rakesh Kapoor, CEO borrowings, the level of acquisitions, the level Capital Management Risk of share repurchases and dividends, disposals, 7 March 2014 The Groups objectives for managing capital are target ratings for our debt and options available to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as to us in the equity and debt markets.
