Governance & Remuneration Statement of Directors Responsibilities Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing governing the preparation and dissemination of Disclosure of Information to Auditors the Annual Report, the Directors financial statements may differ from legislation The Directors, having made appropriate Remuneration Report and the financial in other jurisdictions.
enquiries, state that: statements in accordance with applicable The Directors consider that the Annual Report 1 So far as each Director is aware, there is law and regulations.
and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is no relevant audit information of which the Company law requires the Directors to prepare fair, balanced and understandable and provides Companys Auditors are unaware: and financial statements for each financial year.
the information necessary for Shareholders to 2 Each Director has taken all the steps that Under that law the Directors have prepared the assess a companys performance, business he she ought to have taken as a Director Group financial statements in accordance with model and strategy.
to make him herself aware of any relevant International Financial Reporting Standards Each of the Directors, whose names and audit information and to establish that IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and functions are listed on page 20 confirms that, the Companys Auditors are aware of the parent Company financial statements in to the best of his her knowledge: that information.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom The Group financial statements, which have Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as By Order of the Board preparing the Group financial statements, the adopted by the EU and IFRSs as issued by the Directors have also elected to comply with IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, Elizabeth Richardson IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company Secretary Standards Board IASB.
Under company law Group: and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc the Directors must not approve the financial 103-105 Bath Road The Report of the Directors includes a fair statements unless they are satisfied that they Slough, Berkshire SL1 3UH review of the development and performance give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the business and the position of the Company registration number: 6270876 of the Group and the Company and of the Group, together with a description of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
7 March 2014 principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Going Concern The Groups business activities, together Select suitable accounting policies and then with the factors likely to affect its future apply them consistently.
development, performance and position are Make judgements and accounting estimates set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to that are reasonable and prudent.
The financial position of the Group and Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and State whether IFRSs as adopted by the borrowing facilities, as well as the Groups European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB objectives, policies and processes for managing and applicable UK Accounting Standards its capital: its financial risk management have been followed, subject to any material objectives: details of its financial instruments departures disclosed and explained in the and hedging activities: and its exposure to Group and parent Company financial credit risk and liquidity risk are described in the statements respectively.
Strategic Report on page 19 and in note 14 to Prepare the financial statements on the the Group financial statements.
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate The Group has considerable financial resources to presume that the Company will continue together with a diverse customer and supplier in business.
base across different geographical areas and The Directors are responsible for keeping categories.
As a consequence, the Directors adequate accounting records that are believe that the Group and Company are well sufficient to show and explain the Companys placed to manage their business risks transactions and disclose with reasonable successfully despite the current uncertain accuracy at any time the financial position of economic outlook.
the Company and the Group and enable them The Directors have a reasonable expectation to ensure that the financial statements and the that the Group and Company have adequate Directors Remuneration Report comply with resources to continue in operational existence the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue Group financial statements, Article 4 of the to adopt the going concern basis of accounting IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for in preparing the annual financial statements in safeguarding the assets of the Company and accordance with the FRCs Going Concern and the Group and hence for taking reasonable Liquidity Risk: Guidance For Directors of UK steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Companies 2009.
This statement is also made and other irregularities.
to fulfil the requirements of Listing Rules The Directors are responsible for the 9.8.
10R 1 and C. 1.2 of maintenance and integrity of the Companys the Code.
Legislation in the United Kingdom RB Annual Report 2013 33
