66 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Accounting policies Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have been The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using the prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards equity method of accounting the Groups share of profit after tax is IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and effective at 30 June 2013, shown separately on the face of the income statement and its share of and in accordance with IFRIC interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 net assets is included within noncurrent assets in the balance sheet as as it applies to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS an investment.
Regulation and in accordance with the historical cost convention as When the Group transacts with its jointly controlled entities, unrealised modified by the revaluation of derivative financial instruments.
profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the joint venture, except where unrealised losses provide evidence of the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts impairment of the asset transferred.
Where joint venture arrangements of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported are undertaken directly, the Groups share of jointly controlled assets amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Whilst and liabilities are recognised in the relevant subsidiary company and these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the classified according to their nature.
amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those Revenue and profit recognition estimates refer to note 1.
Revenue represents the fair value received and receivable in respect of The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
the sale of residential housing and land and of commercial land and developments net of value added tax and discounts.
This is recognised The principal accounting policies have been applied consistently in the on legal completion.
periods presented and are outlined below: Profit is recognised on legal completion.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Segmental reporting statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with the The main operation of the Group is focused on housebuilding.
Groups share of the results and share of net assets of jointly controlled As it operates entirely within the United Kingdom, the Group has only entities i. e. the financial statements of Redrow plc and entities controlled one business and geographic segment.
This is consistent with the by Redrow plc and its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved where Redrow plc information provided for internal reporting purposes to the Chief has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an Operating Decision Maker the Board.
The Group has no key customers.
Redrow plcs accounting reference date is 30 June.
Consistent with the normal monthly reporting process, the actual date to which the Exceptional items balance sheet has been drawn up is to 30 June 2013 2012: 1 July 2012.
Exceptional items are those which in the opinion of the Board, are For ease of reference all references to the year or 12 months and material by size or nature, nonrecurring and of such significance that financial position are for the year ended 30 June and as at 30 June.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption provided under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present Redrow plcs Net financing costs Company income statement.
The profit loss for the financial year is Interest income is recognised on a time apportioned basis by reference dealt with in the statement of changes in equity.
to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate.
Interest costs are recognised in the income statement on an accruals basis in the a.
Subsidiaries period in which they are incurred.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated income statement from the effective date Income and deferred tax of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
Identifiable assets Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business Current tax is based on taxable profits for the year and any appropriate combination are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Taxable profit differs Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups from profit before tax as shown in the income statement as it excludes share of the identifiable net assets represents goodwill.
Goodwill is income or expenditure items which are never chargeable or allowable for subject to an annual impairment review, with any reduction in value tax or which are chargeable or deductible in other accounting periods.
being taken straight to the income statement.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability method, Adjustments are made as necessary to the financial statements on temporary differences arising between the carrying amounts of of subsidiaries to ensure consistency with the policies adopted assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and the by the Group.
corresponding tax bases used in the calculation of taxable profit.
All intercompany transactions and balances between Group Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that companies are eliminated on consolidation.
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary b.
Interests in joint ventures differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and temporary differences.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates enacted other parties undertake an economic activity which is subject to joint at the balance sheet date.
Joint venture arrangements which involve the establishment of a separate entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred Deferred tax is credited or charged in the income statement, to as jointly controlled entities.
consolidated statement of comprehensive income, or retained earnings as appropriate.
About Redrow Business review Corporate governance Financial statements p. 6090 Shareholder information 67 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities Independent Auditors report Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Balance sheets Statement of changes in equity Statement of cash flows Accounting policies Notes to the financial statements Intangible assets computer software Cost comprises land and associated acquisition costs, direct materials Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of costs and subcontract work, other direct costs and those overheads based incurred to bring to use the specific software and are amortised over their on normal operating capacity that have been incurred in bringing estimated useful lives of three years, charged to administrative expenses.
the inventories to their present location and condition, excluding These are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in borrowing costs.
circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Net realisable value for land was assessed by estimating selling prices and cost including sales and marketing expenses, taking into account Property, plant and equipment current market conditions.
Freehold property comprises offices or other buildings held for administrative purposes.
Freehold property is shown at cost less the This net realisable value provision will be closely monitored for adequacy subsequent depreciation of buildings.
and appropriateness as regards under and over provision to reflect circumstances at future balance sheet dates.
Any material change to All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historic cost less the underlying provision will be reflected through cost of sales as an depreciation.
Historic cost includes any costs directly attributable to exceptional item.
bringing the assets to the location and condition necessary for them to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.
Forward land Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets, is charged Expenditure relating to forward land excluding owned sites without so as to write off the cost of assets to their residual values over their residential planning consent but including options, fees etc.
is provided estimated useful lives, on a straight line basis as follows: for when incurred.
After exercise of an option and acquisition of land following the securing of planning permission, the provisions relating Buildings within freehold property 50 years to that land are released.
Expenditure incurred on owned sites without Plant and machinery 5 10 years residential planning consent is included in inventories and is subject to a regular impairment review.
Fixtures and fittings 3 5 years The assets useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at each Employee benefits a.
Pension obligation balance sheet date.
The Group operates two pension schemes for its staff.
The Redrow Staff These are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in Pension Scheme the Scheme closed to the accrual of new benefits circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
with effect from 1 March 2012, with new benefits now being provided via The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset represents the the Redrow Group Personal Pension Plan the GPP.
The Scheme difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the is externally invested and comprises two sections: a defined benefit asset and is recognised in the income statement.
section and a defined contribution section.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan which defines an amount of pension benefit that an Noncurrent assets held for sale employee will receive on retirement.
It is funded through payments to Noncurrent assets are classified as assets held for sale when their trustee administered funds, determined by actuarial valuations carried carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction out on at least a triennial basis.
A defined contribution plan is a pension and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at plan under which the Group pays agreed contributions into a separate managements best estimate of realisable value less estimated costs fund for each employee and any subsequent pension payable to a necessary to make the sale.
specific employee is determined by the amount accumulated in their individual fund.
The GPP is also a type of defined contribution plan.
Investment in subsidiary companies The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the In the parent company books, the investment in its subsidiaries is held defined benefit section of the scheme is the present value of the defined at cost less any impairment.
benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of plan Leases assets.
The defined benefit obligation is determined using the projected Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership unit credit method on an annual basis by an independent scheme actuary.
are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals Under IAS 19, revised December 2004, the Group has taken the option payable under operating leases are charged to work in progress or to allow actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments income on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Leases and changes in actuarial assumptions to be charged or credited to equity classified as finance leases are those where substantially all of the risks as they arise in full via the statement of comprehensive income.
and rewards of ownership pass to the lessee.
The corresponding liability Scheme service costs are charged to cost of sales and administrative to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
expenses as appropriate and scheme finance costs are included in net Inventories financing costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately to the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value extent that the benefits are already vested, or otherwise amortised on less cash on account.
a straight line basis over the vesting period, if they are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a further period.
68 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Accounting policies continued Employee benefits continued Trade receivables are held at discounted present value less any a.
The amount is then increased to settlement value over In respect of the defined contribution section of the Scheme and the the settlement period via financing income.
GPP, contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when d. Cash and cash equivalents they are due.
The Group has no further payment obligations in respect of Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
the above once the contributions have been paid.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, forming an integral part b.
Bonus plans of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses where and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
e. Borrowings and trade payables c. Sharebased payments Interest bearing borrowings and trade payables are recorded when The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Sharebased the proceeds are received, net of transaction costs incurred and payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has subsequently at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds, been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002, net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the which had not vested as of 1 July 2004.
Equity settled sharebased income statement over the period of the borrowings.
payments are measured at fair value on the date of grant and expensed Onerous contracts on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups Onerous contracts are contracts in which the unavoidable costs in estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic d. Termination benefits benefits expected to be received under it.
Provision is made to reflect Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated managements best current estimate of the least net cost of either by the Group before normal retirement date by redundancy.
These fulfilling or exiting the contract.
benefits are recognised by the Group in the period in which it becomes demonstrably committed to terminating the employment of current Share capital employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility Ordinary shares are classed as equity.
Dividend distribution Financial instruments Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a.
Land creditors a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the Deferred payments arising from land creditors are held at discounted dividends are declared and paid.
present value using the effective interest method, in accordance with IAS 39.
The difference between the fair value and the nominal value Impact of new standards and interpretation is amortised over the deferment period via financing costs.
New standards Amended IAS 1 Financial statement presentation.
The main amendment The interest rate applied is an equivalent loan rate available on the is the requirement to group items presented in other comprehensive date of the land purchase.
income on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to b.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting profit or loss subsequently.
The amended IAS 1 is required to be applied Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair value from 1 July 2012. and the fair value is remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but The Groups use of financial derivatives is governed by an interest not effective for the financial year beginning 1 July 2012 and not rate risk management framework adopted by the Board which sets early adopted parameters to ensure an appropriate level of hedging is maintained IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee benefits.
This amendment makes to manage interest rate risk in respect of borrowings.
significant changes to the recognition and measurement of defined benefit pension expense and termination benefits, and to the The policy prohibits any trading in derivative financial instruments disclosures for all employee benefits.
The changes will affect most or their use for speculative purposes.
They could significantly change a number of The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative financial performance indicators and might also significantly increase the volume instruments which are designated and which qualify as cash flow hedges of disclosures.
This is effective for annual periods beginning on or after are recognised directly in equity in a hedge reserve.
The gains or losses 1 January 2013.
The Group will adopt this for the first time for the year relating to the ineffective portion are recognised in the income beginning 1 July 2013. statement immediately they arise.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments classification and measurement.
c. Loans and receivables This standard on classification and measurement of financial assets Loans and receivables are nonderivative financial assets with fixed or and financial liabilities will replace IAS 39.
IFRS 9 has two measurement determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They categories: amortised cost and fair value.
All equity instruments are are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is measured at amortised cost after the balance sheet date which are classified as noncurrent assets.
only if the entity is holding it to collect contractual cash flows and the Loans and receivables include trade receivables and other receivables cash flows represent principal and interest.
For liabilities, the standard and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
These include amortisedcost About Redrow Business review Corporate governance Financial statements p. 6090 Shareholder information 69 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities Independent Auditors report Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Balance sheets Statement of changes in equity Statement of cash flows Accounting policies Notes to the financial statements Impact of new standards and interpretation continued IAS 27 revised 2011 Separate financial statements.
New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but includes the provisions on separate financial statements that are left not effective for the financial year beginning 1 July 2012 and not after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new early adopted continued IFRS 10.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and accounting for most financial liabilities, with bifurcation of embedded endorsed by the EU for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. derivatives.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IAS 28 revised 2011 Associates and joint ventures.
This standard The Group has not assessed the full impact of this standard, and will includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to adopt this for the first time for the year beginning 1 July 2014, subject to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
Effective for periods endorsement by the EU.
beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and endorsed by the EU for periods IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements.
This standard builds on existing beginning on or after 1 January 2014. principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist in determining control where this is difficult to assess.
This new standard might impact the entities that a group consolidates as its subsidiaries.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and endorsed by the EU for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
This is not expected to have a material impact on the Group financial statements and will be adopted for the first time for the year beginning 1 July 2013.
This standard provides for a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the arrangement, rather than its legal form.
There are two types of joint arrangements: joint operations and joint ventures.
Joint operations arise where a joint operator has rights to the assets and obligations relating to the arrangement and hence accounts for its interest in assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Joint ventures arise where the joint operator has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and hence equity accounts for its interest.
Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed.
Effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 and endorsed by the EU for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The Group has not assessed the full impact of this standard.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities.
This standard includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
Not expected to be relevant to the Group, but is effective 1 January 2013 and endorsed by the EU for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
These amendments also provide additional transition relief in IFRSs 10, 11 and 12, limiting the requirement to provide adjusted comparative information to only the preceding comparative period.
For disclosures related to unconsolidated structured entities, the amendments will remove the requirement to present comparative information for periods before IFRS 12 is first applied.
This standard aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRSs and US GAAP, do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRS or US GAAP.
The Group will adopt this for the first time for the year beginning 1 July 2013.
