About Redrow Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information p. 9196 91 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Shar Shareholder information eholder information Notice Notice of annual general meeting of annual general meeting C Corporate and shar orporate and shareholder information eholder information Fiv Five y e year ear summary summary Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Redrow plc For the purposes of this Resolution and Resolution 12, rights issue will be held at Village Urban Resort St Davids, St Davids Park, Flintshire means an offer to: CH5 3YB on Monday 11 November 2013 at 12 noon for the following a ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable purposes.
All resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions except to their existing holdings: and numbers 12 and 13 which will be proposed as a special resolution.
b people who are holders of other equity securities if this is required Resolution 1 Annual Report and Accounts by the rights of those securities or, if the Directors consider it To receive and adopt the Directors report and the financial statements necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, for the year ended 30 June 2013, together with the Auditors report.
to subscribe further securities by means of the issue of a renounceable letter or other negotiable document which may be traded for a period Resolution 2 Dividend before payment for the securities is due, but subject in both cases to such To declare a final dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share for the year ended exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or 30 June 2013. expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates or legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, Resolution 3 Reappointment of Director any territory.
To reappoint Steve Morgan as a Director.
Resolution 12 Authority to disapply preemption rights Resolution 4 Reappointment of Director That, subject to the passing of Resolution 11 as set out above, the To reappoint John Tutte as a Director.
Directors be given power pursuant to Resolution 11 to make allotments Resolution 5 Reappointment of Director of equity securities as defined in Section 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 To reappoint Barbara Richmond as a Director.
pursuant to the authority contained in the said Resolution 11 and to sell shares which are held in treasury wholly for cash pursuant to Section Resolution 6 Reappointment of Director 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006 as if Section 561 1 of the said Act To reappoint Alan Jackson as a Director.
did not apply to such allotments or sale provided that this power shall be limited to: Resolution 7 Reappointment of Director i allotments of equity securities in connection with a rights To reappoint Debbie Hewitt as a Director.
issue, pursuant to the authority given in Resolution 11 as set Resolution 8 Reappointment of Director out above: and To reappoint Nick Hewson as a Director.
ii any other allotments for cash or equity securities or sale of shares held in treasury up to a maximum aggregate nominal Resolution 9 Reappointment of Auditors amount of 1,849,000: To reappoint  LLP as external Auditors to the Company, to hold office until the end of the next general meeting at and shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire on the date which which financial statements are laid before the Company and to authorise is the earlier of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the Directors to fix their remuneration.
31 December 2014 save that the said power shall permit the Company to make an offer or enter into an agreement before the expiry of such Resolution 10 Directors remuneration report power which would or might require equity securities to be allotted To approve the Directors remuneration report for the year ended after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in 30 June 2013. pursuance of such offer or agreement as if such power conferred had not expired.
For the purposes of this Resolution, the nominal amount of Resolution 11 Authority to allot shares any securities shall be taken to be, in the case of rights to subscribe for or That the Directors, in place of any existing authority conferred upon convert any securities into shares of the Company, the nominal amount them for the purpose of Section 549 551 of the Companies Act 2006, be of such shares which may be allotted pursuant to such rights.
generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all powers of Resolution 13 Calling of a general meeting other than an the Company to allot and to make offers or agreements to allot shares Annual General Meeting or grant rights to subscribe shares or convert any securities into shares: That a general meeting other than the Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665: and ii up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
Provided that this authority shall unless previously revoked or renewed 17 September 2013 By order of the Board Registered office: Graham Cope expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company Redrow House Company Secretary or 31 December 2014 whichever may be the earlier but so that the St. Davids Park Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which Flintshire would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or CH5 3RX to convert any security into shares to be granted after such expiry and Registered in England Number 2877315 the Directors may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
92 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Shareholder information Notice of annual general meeting continued Notes: Company may not require the Shareholders requesting any such i A Shareholder entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him.
A proxy need not 527 or 528 requirements as to website availability of the be a member of the Company.
A member may appoint more than Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a one proxy, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to a different share or shares held by him.
it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the ii A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be completed website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual in accordance with the instructions set out therein and returned General Meeting for the relevant financial year includes any so as to reach the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 before the time of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
Completion of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
of a form of proxy will not preclude a Shareholder from attending and voting at the meeting in person if they so wish.
Members may not use any electronic address provided in either this notice of meeting or any related documents including the iii All Shareholders on the Register at 6.00pm on 7 November 2013 enclosed form of proxy to communicate with the Company for or if the meeting is adjourned 48 hours before the time fixed for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
the meeting and only those Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the number vii Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
of shares registered in their respective names at that time.
Changes The Company must cause to be answered any such question to entries on the Register after that time will be disregarded in relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of iv The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose confidential information: b the answer has already been given shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is been nominated to receive communications from the Company undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 of the meeting that the question be answered.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their viii A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a of the Companies Act 2006 can be found at redrow.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, ix Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as have the right to require the Company: i to give, to members of to the exercise of voting rights.
the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed the same shares.
resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be v Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at general included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution meetings of the Company.
The total number of issued ordinary only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of shares in the Company on 17 September 2013 is 369,799,938, inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution carrying one vote each on a poll.
Therefore, the total number or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is of votes exercisable as at 17 September 2013 is 369,799,938. frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form vi Shar eholders should note that, under Section 527 of the or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be requirements set out in that section have the right to require authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out by the Company not later than 28 September 2013, being the date any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that to be included in the business only must be accompanied by are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting for the financial a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
year beginning 1 July 2012: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company appointed for the financial year beginning 1 July 2012 ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid.
The About Redrow Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information p. 9196 93 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Shar Shareholder information eholder information Notice Notice of annual general meeting of annual general meeting C Corporate and shar orporate and shareholder information eholder information Fiv Five y e year ear summary summary Notes: continued xv The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the x Copies of the Directors service contracts will be available for circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated inspection at the registered office during normal business hours on Securities Regulations 2001. any business day and at the place of the Annual General Meeting xvi If you have any questions about the meeting or need any special for at least 15 minutes before the meeting is held until its conclusion.
assistance at the meeting, please contact the Company Secretary xi The register of Directors interests in the share capital of the at the registered office or telephone 01244 520044 during normal Company will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting business hours.
from 11.45am on 11 November 2013 until the conclusion of the Explanatory notes to annual general meeting resolutions: meeting.
None of the Directors has a service contract which cannot Resolutions 1 to 11 and Resolution 13 are proposed as ordinary be terminated within one year without payment of compensation.
This means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, xii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for Resolution 12 is proposed as a special resolution.
This means that for the meeting and any adjournment of the meeting by following that resolution to be passed, at least threequarters of the votes cast the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal must be in favour of the resolution.
Members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST Resolutions 2 Dividend members who have appointed a voting service provider should Subject to approval at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider, who will 15 November 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
business on 27 September 2013. xiii In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means of Resolutions 38 Reappointment of Directors CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors retire Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with and offer themselves for reelection.
For full biographies of all Directors Euroclears specifications and must contain the information required and further details in relation to their reelection, please see page 39. for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual available via www.
The message regardless of whether it Resolution 9 Reappointment of Auditors constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the The Company is required to appoint Auditors at every general meeting instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order at which the accounts are presented to Shareholders.
to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent  LLP were appointed at last years Annual ID 3RA50 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments General Meeting and are willing to seek reappointment this year.
It is specified in note ii above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will normal practice for a Companys Directors to be authorised to agree the be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to Auditors fees.
If this resolution is passed, the Audit Committee will the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers approve the fees for recommendation to the Board.
agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the Resolution 10 Directors remuneration report manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of Under the Companies Act 2006 companies are required to ask instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be Shareholders to vote on the Directors remuneration report.
The report communicated to him by other means.
is contained on pages 49 to 55 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
xiv CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or Resolution 11 Authority to allot shares voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make Shareholders are being invited to renew the authority given to Directors available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
in previous years to allot new shares.
If passed, Resolution 11 would Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation renew this authority by authorising the Directors to allot shares up to to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the an aggregate nominal amount of 12,326,665 which is equivalent to CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a Company, exclusive of treasury shares, as at 17 September 2013 and voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting a further 12,326,665 only in respect of a rights issue which is equivalent service provider takes such action as shall be necessary to ensure to approximately 33% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by Company, exclusive of treasury shares as at 17 September 2013.
This is any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where in line with corporate governance guidelines.
The authority will expire applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are on the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual if earlier, 31 December 2014. concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
94 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Shareholder information Notice of annual general meeting continued Explanatory notes to annual general meeting resolutions: Documents available for your inspection continued Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection Resolution 11 Authority to allot shares continued during normal business hours on Monday to Friday each week public The Company does not, as of 17 September 2013 hold any shares holiday excepted at the Companys registered office and at the office in treasury.
of Linklaters LLP at One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ from the date of this document up to and including the date of the Annual General The Directors will exercise the authority to allot only when satisfied Meeting and at the place of the Annual General Meeting from 11.45am that it is in the interests of the Company to do so.
They have no present until the close of the meeting: intention of exercising the authority, except in connection with the issue of shares under the Companys share option schemes.
the Articles of Association and Memorandum of the Company: and There are no present plans to undertake a rights issue or to allot new the service agreements and letters of appointment of the Directors.
shares other than in connection with employee share and incentive plans.
The Directors consider it desirable to have the maximum flexibility permitted by corporate governance guidelines to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities as they arise.
Resolution 12 Authority to disapply preemption rights The Directors may only allot shares for cash to persons who are not already Shareholders in the Company if authorised to do so by the Shareholders in a general meeting.
This resolution renews authority for the Directors to allot shares for cash without first offering them to existing members up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,849,000.
This sum represents 18,489,997 ordinary shares of 10p each, being equivalent to approximately 5% of the Companys current issued share capital.
The resolution also enables the Directors to modify the strict requirements for a rights issue in circumstances where they consider it necessary or expedient.
In addition, if the Company has purchased its own shares and holds them in treasury, this resolution would give the Directors power to sell these shares for cash to persons other than existing Shareholders, subject to the same limit that would apply to issues of shares for cash to these persons.
The Board considers the authority in Resolution 12 to be appropriate in order to allow the Company flexibility to finance business opportunities or to conduct a preemptive offer or rights issue without the need to comply with the strict requirements of the statutory preemption provisions.
The authority will expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 31 December 2014.
Resolution 13 Calling of a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Shareholders Rights Regulations increase the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless Shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot, however, be less than 14 clear days.
Annual General Meetings of the Company will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be prepared.
