60 Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed below Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the of the assets, liabilities, financial position and result of the Group and Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with Company: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the the Directors report contained on pages 56 to 59 includes a fair review European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve of the development and performance of the business and the position the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of risks and uncertainties that they face.
the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial The Directors of Redrow plc as at the date of this statement are: statements, the Directors are required to: Steve Morgan, Chairman select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Alan Jackson, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable John Tutte, Group Managing Director and prudent: Barbara Richmond, Group Finance Director state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have Debbie Hewitt, NonExecutive Director been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Nick Hewson, NonExecutive Director explained in the financial statements: and By order of the Board prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Graham Cope that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Company Secretary disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position 17 September 2013 of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible Redrow plc for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence Redrow House St. Davids Park for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Flintshire and other irregularities.
CH5 3RX The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
