FINANCIAL REVIEW 58 CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS REPORT Accounting policies 2014 revised methodology for allocation of The combined financial statements are prepared in accordance corporate and shared costs with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by Following a review of activities, assets and costs across the the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting business, Reed Elsevier will introduce a new method for the Standards Board following the accounting policies shown on allocation of corporate and shared costs from January 2014. pages 102 to 107.
The accounting policies and estimates which Previously unallocated items will be attributed to the business require the most significant judgement relate to the valuation of areas, as will costs relating to shared activities and resources, on goodwill and intangible assets, the capitalisation of development the basis of benefits accrued.
This new allocation reflects an costs and taxation.
Further detail is provided in the accounting increased level of shared resources and capitalised costs.
Had this policies on pages 105 and 106. new method of allocation been applied during 2013, it would have resulted in the adjusted operating profit figures shown below.
Amendments to IAS19 Employee Benefits With effect from 1 January 2013, IAS19 Employee Benefits AS AT 31 DECEMBER New method Old method revised inter alia changed the methodology used in the 2013 2013 calculation of the net pension financing credit or charge in relation m m to defined benefit pension schemes.
Under the revised standard, Adjusted operating profit pension asset returns included within the net pension financing Scientific, Technical & Medical 787 826 credit or charge are calculated by reference to the discount rate of Risk Solutions 401 414 high-quality corporate bonds being also the discount rate applied Business Information 106 107 in the calculation of pension obligations and are no longer based Legal 250 238 on the expected returns on scheme assets.
The effect is to reduce Exhibitions 210 213 the asset returns recognised in the income statement.
Unallocated items 5 49 Adoption of IAS19 revised has had no impact on Reed Elseviers combined statement of financial position and statement of cash 1,749 1,749 flows.
The net pension financing credit or charge is now presented within net finance costs in Reed Elseviers combined income Treasury policies statement, rather than within operating profit as previously reported.
Given that the revised standard may introduce greater The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have volatility to the income statement, the net pension financing credit requested that Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance or charge has been excluded from the adjusted figures used by BV have due regard to the best interests of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier as additional performance measures.
Reed Elsevier NV shareholders in the formulation of treasury policies.
Financial instruments are used to finance the Reed As required under the revised standard, comparative figures have Elsevier businesses and to hedge transactions.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, operating businesses do not enter into speculative transactions.
The main profits are 25m lower and net finance costs are 11m higher than treasury risks faced by Reed Elsevier are liquidity risk, interest previously reported.
On an adjusted basis, profit before tax is rate risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
parent companies agree overall policy guidelines for managing each of these risks and the Boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Finance SA agree policies in line with parent company guidelines for their respective business and treasury centres.
A summary of these policies is given below.
Capital and liquidity management The capital structure is managed to support Reed Elseviers objective of maximising long-term shareholder value through appropriate security of funding, ready access to debt and capital markets, cost effective borrowing and flexibility to fund business and acquisition opportunities while maintaining appropriate leverage to ensure an efficient capital structure.
