BUSINESS REVIEW 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to improving access to our products and 5.
Community services for all users, regardless of physical ability.
In 2013, we RE Cares, our global community programme, promotes education consulted on a new Reed Elsevier Accessibility Policy that aims to for disadvantaged young people aligned with our unique lead the industry in providing accessibility solutions to customers, contributions as a business, and allows staff up to two days paid while contributing to international standards with products that leave per year for their own community work.
We donated 2.5m in are operable, understandable, and robust.
The Accessibility Policy cash including through matching gifts and the equivalent of was formally launched to all managers before the close of the 3.1m in products, services, and staff time in 2013.
31% of year, with a launch in early 2014 to all employees by the Chief employees were engaged in volunteering through RE Cares and Strategy Officer.
In 2013, members of the Accessibility Working we reached more than 17,000 disadvantaged young people Group logged over 80 accessibility projects and Elseviers Global through time, in-kind, and cash donations.
In the year, we Books Digital Archive fulfilled more than 4,000 disability requests, spotlighted the benefit of skills-based volunteering through 60% of them through AccessText.
org, a service it helped establish.
awareness-raising campaigns, RE Cares on the global intranet, 2013 OBJECTIVES Progress and the involvement of 172 cross-business RE Cares Champions.
Incorporate corporate Engagement of key sales Each September, we hold RE Cares Month to celebrate our responsibility component into and marketing teams community activities and in 2013, 56% of Reed Elsevier locations regular customer-facing staff Updated intranet resource, around the world were involved.
Among them, LexisNexis Legal & training CR as a Sales Tool Professional New Zealand ran a Live Below the Line Challenge: staff attempted to live on $2.25 per day the extreme poverty line Created a CR Fast Facts for a week, with funds they would have spent on food donated to document for distribution Habitat for Humanity to aid poor families.
Reed Elsevier across the business Philippines held a science fair for 51 students at their office.
Developed new CR Sales During RE Cares Month, we held our annual global book drive Academy content yielding more than 9,200 books for local and developing world Embed updated Editorial Policy Launched by Chief Legal readers, and announced the winners of the third Recognising Officer and Company Those Who Care Awards to highlight the contributions to RE Cares Secretary in a of eight individuals and four RE Cares teams.
Individual winners communication to all from across the business spent a week with Afrikids, a child rights employees organisation working to raise standards for children in Northern Africa, which Reed Elsevier has supported for 10 years.
The trip New Editorial Policy was led by one of Reed Elseviers senior leaders, Youngsuk YS resource created on Chi, Director of Corporate Affairs.
Among the winning teams was global intranet with the Amsterdam Slootermeer School Project Group, comprised of input from editors and 30 Elsevier, RBI, and LexisNexis Legal & Professional volunteers others across the who help children with reading skills on a weekly basis, and the business RBI Skokie, Illinois Accuity in Action Team, which over a 12 month Consult on Reed Elsevier Consultation with Reed period organised 22 volunteer programmes to benefit staff and Accessibility Policy and begin Elsevier Accessibility the local community.
implementation Working Group Progress 2013 OBJECTIVES Launched to managers Skills-based Two Days volunteer Drive consisted of across the company drive all staff have two days awareness-raising Chief Strategy Officer each year for community work of efforts collateral, named senior their own choosing intranet content, and the accessibility champion: involvement of 172 RE engaged business unit Cares Champions chief technology officers across the business 25% of locations involved in RE 56% achieved 2014 OBJECTIVES Cares Month Roll out translations of the Reed Elsevier Editorial Policy: launch related Reed Elsevier Data Quality Standards 2014 OBJECTIVES Create CR blueprint to help sales staff enhance their Increase use of Two Days volunteering by 10% customer conversations: put CR on the agenda at five key Expand RE Cares Champions network and create new sales conferences induction programme Embed Accessibility Policy and conduct accessibility review of at least 10 key product sites 29275 SAS p041-050.
