FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 164 REED ELSEVIER PLC Group accounting policies Basis of preparation which is recognised, in the same or a different period, outside profit These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under or loss either in other comprehensive income, directly in equity, the historical cost convention in accordance with applicable accounting or through a business combination in which case the tax appears standards.
They report the consolidated statements of income, in the same statement as the transaction that gave rise to it.
comprehensive income, cash flow, financial position and changes Current tax is the amount of corporate income taxes payable or in equity of Reed Elsevier PLC incorporated and domiciled in the recoverable based on the profit for the period as adjusted for items United Kingdom, and have been prepared in accordance with that are not taxable or not deductible, and is calculated using tax International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by rates and laws that were enacted or substantively enacted at the the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting date of the statement of financial position.
periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going interpretation.
Provisions are established where appropriate on concern basis, as explained on page 159.
Unless otherwise the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
indicated, all amounts shown in the financial statements are in millions of pounds.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying The basis of the merger of the businesses of Reed Elsevier PLC amounts in the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax is and Reed Elsevier NV is set out on page 69. calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or Determination of profit substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period, and which The Reed Elsevier PLC share of the Reed Elsevier combined results are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is has been calculated on the basis of the 52.9% economic interest of realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
the Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders in the Reed Elsevier combined Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable businesses, after taking account of results arising in Reed Elsevier temporary differences but not recognised for taxable temporary PLC and its subsidiaries.
Dividends paid to Reed Elsevier PLC differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders are, other than in special joint ventures where the reversal of the temporary difference can circumstances, equalised at the gross level inclusive of the UK be controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse taxcredit received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
Deferred tax liabilities are not In Reed Elsevier PLCs consolidated financial statements, an recognised on temporary differences that arise from goodwill adjustment is required to equalise the benefit of the tax credit which is not deductible for tax purposes.
between the two sets of shareholders in accordance with the Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that equalisation agreement.
This equalisation adjustment arises on taxable profits will be available against which the deductible dividends paid by Reed Elsevier PLC to its shareholders and temporary differences can be utilised: and reviewed at the end of reduces the consolidated attributable earnings by 47.1% of the each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer total amount of the tax credit.
The accounting policies adopted in probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all the preparation of the combined financial statements are set out or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect of Investments temporary differences that arise on initial recognition of assets Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of the and liabilities acquired other than in a business combination.
combined businesses has been shown on the statement of financial Deferred tax is not discounted.
position as investments in joint ventures, net of the assets and liabilities Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty reported as part of Reed Elsevier PLC and its subsidiaries.
Investments Critical judgements in the preparation of the combined financial in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
The results statements are set out on pages 105 to 106. of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses are set out on pages 98 to 137.
Standards and amendments effective for the year Foreign exchange translation As described on page 106 of the combined accounts, the combined Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange businesses adopted IAS19 Employee Benefits revised with effect prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each statement of financial from 1 January 2013.
As required under the revised standard, position date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated comparative figures have been restated.
For the year ended 31 in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the December 2012, Reed Elsevier PLCs share of results of joint statement of financial position date.
Exchange differences arising ventures is 14m lower and basic earnings per share is 1.2p lower are recorded in the income statement.
The exchange gains or than previously reported.
On an adjusted basis, earnings per share losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% is 0.7p lower than previously reported.
economic interest in the net assets of the combined businesses are classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
With effect from 1 January 2013, the combined businesses also When foreign operations are disposed of, the related cumulative adopted various other standards, interpretations and amendments translation differences are recognised within the income to IFRS, none of which have had a significant impact on Reed statement in the period.
Elseviers accounting policies or reporting.
Taxation Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Current and Recently issued standards, amendments and interpretations and deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement their impact on future accounting policies and reporting have been except to the extent that the tax arises from a transaction or event considered on page 107 of the combined financial statements.
