FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 102 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting policies The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements are prepared in retranslated at the rate prevailing on the statement of financial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards position date.
Exchange differences arising are recorded in the IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the income statement other than where hedge accounting applies as International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The combined set out below.
financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at as explained on page 76. exchange rates prevailing on the statement of financial position The Reed Elsevier accounting policies under IFRS are set date.
Income and expense items and cash flows of foreign out below.
operations are translated at the average exchange rate for the period.
Significant individual items of income and expense and Basis of preparation cash flows in foreign operations are translated at the rate The equalisation agreement between Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed prevailing on the date of transaction.
Exchange differences arising Elsevier NV has the effect that their shareholders can be regarded are classified as equity and transferred to the translation reserve.
as having the interests of a single economic group.
The Reed When foreign operations are disposed of, the related cumulative Elsevier combined financial statements the combined financial translation differences are recognised within the income statements represent the combined interests of both sets of statement in the period.
shareholders and encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier uses derivative financial instruments, primarily Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their respective forward contracts, to hedge its exposure to certain foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, together with the two exchange risks.
Details of Reed Elseviers accounting policies in parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the respect of derivative financial instruments are set out below.
In preparing the combined financial statements, subsidiaries of Revenue Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV are Revenue represents the invoiced value of sales less anticipated accounted for under the acquisition method and investments in returns on transactions completed by performance, excluding associates and joint ventures are accounted for under the equity customer sales taxes.
All transactions and balances between the combined Revenues are recognised for the various categories of turnover businesses are eliminated.
asfollows: subscriptions on periodic despatch of subscribed On acquisition of a subsidiary, or interest in an associate or joint product or rateably over the period of the subscription where venture, fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition, performance is not measurable by despatch: transactional are attributed to the net assets, including identifiable intangible on despatch or occurrence of the transaction and advertising assets acquired.
This includes those adjustments made to bring onpublication or over the period of online display.
accounting policies into line with those of the combined Where sales consist of two or more independent components businesses.
The results of subsidiaries sold or acquired are whose value can be reliably measured, revenue is recognised on included in the combined financial statements up to or from the each component as it is completed by performance, based on date that control passes from or to the combined businesses.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of the combined businesses are identified separately from combined Employee benefits shareholders equity.
Non-controlling interests consist of the The expense of defined benefit pension schemes and other amount of those interests at the date of the original acquisition post-retirement employee benefits is determined using the and the non-controlling share of changes in equity since the projected unit credit method and charged in the income statement date of acquisition.
as an operating expense, based on actuarial assumptions reflecting market conditions at the beginning of the financial year.
These financial statements form part of the statutory information Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement to be provided by Reed Elsevier NV, but are not for a legal entity of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
and do not include all the information required to be disclosed by a company in its financial statements under the UK Companies Act Past service costs are recognised immediately at the earlier of 2006 or the Dutch Civil Code.
Additional information is given in the when plan amendments or curtailments occur and when related Annual Reports and Financial Statements of the parent restructuring costs or termination benefits are recognised.
companies set out on pages 155 to 199.
A list of principal Settlements are recognised when they occur.
businesses is set out on page 211.
Net pension obligations in respect of defined benefit schemes are included in the statement of financial position at the present value Foreign exchange translation of scheme liabilities, less the fair value of scheme assets.
Where The combined financial statements are presented in pounds schemes are in surplus, i. e. assets exceed liabilities, the net sterling.
Additional information providing a translation into euros pension assets are separately included in the statement of of the primary Reed Elsevier combined financial statements and financial position.
Any net pension asset is limited to the extent that selected notes is presented on pages 142 to 154. the asset is recoverable through reductions in future contributions.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of The expense of defined contribution pension schemes and other exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each employee benefits is charged in the income statement as incurred.
statement of financial position date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are 29275 SAS p097-137.
indd 102 07 03 2014 11:25 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 103 Share based remuneration Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect of The fair value of share based remuneration is determined at the temporary differences that arise on initial recognition of assets date of grant and recognised as an expense in the income and liabilities acquired other than in a business combination.
statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period, taking Deferred tax is not discounted.
account of the estimated number of shares that are expected to vest.
Market based performance criteria are taken into account Goodwill when determining the fair value at the date of grant.
Non-market On the acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the purchase based performance criteria are taken into account when consideration is allocated between the net tangible and intangible estimating the number of shares expected to vest.
The fair value of assets on a fair value basis, with any excess purchase share based remuneration is determined by use of a binomial or consideration representing goodwill.
Goodwill arising on Monte Carlo simulation model as appropriate.
All Reed Elseviers acquisitions also includes amounts corresponding to deferred tax share based remuneration is equity settled.
liabilities recognised in respect of acquired intangible assets.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment Borrowing costs when there is an indicator that the asset may be impaired and at Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the construction or production of an asset that takes a substantial income statement and not subsequently reversed.
period of time to bring to use are capitalised.
All other interest onborrowings is expensed as incurred.
The cost of issuing On disposal of a subsidiary or business, the attributable amount borrowings is generally expensed over the period of borrowing of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss soas to produce a constant periodic rate of charge.
Taxation Intangible assets Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Current and Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement stated in the statement of financial position at their fair value as at except to the extent that the tax arises from a transaction or event the date of acquisition, less accumulated amortisation.
Internally which is recognised, in the same or a different period, outside profit generated intangible assets are stated in the statement of or loss either in other comprehensive income, directly in equity, or financial position at the directly attributable cost of creation of the through a business combination in which case the tax appears in asset, less accumulated amortisation.
the same statement as the transaction that gave rise to it.
Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations Current tax is the amount of corporate income taxes payable or comprise: market related assets e. g. trademarks, imprints, recoverable based on the profit for the period as adjusted for items brands : customer related assets e. g. subscription bases, that are not taxable or not deductible, and is calculated using tax customer lists, customer relationships : editorial content: rates and laws that were enacted or substantively enacted at the software and systems e. g. application infrastructure, product date of the statement of financial position.
Management delivery platforms, in process research and development : periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect contract based assets e. g. publishing rights, exhibition rights, to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to supply contracts : and other intangible assets.
Provisions are established where appropriate on generated intangible assets typically comprise software and the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
systems development where an identifiable asset is created that is probable to generate future economic benefits.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying Intangible assets, other than brands and imprints determined to amounts in the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax is have indefinite lives, are amortised on a straight line basis over calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or their estimated useful lives.
The estimated useful lives of substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period, and which intangible assets with finite lives are as follows: market and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is customer related assets 3 to 40 years: content, software and realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
other acquired intangible assets 3 to 20 years: and internally developed intangible assets 3 to 10 years.
Brands and imprints Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable determined to have indefinite lives are not amortised and are temporary differences but not recognised for taxable temporary subject to impairment review at least annually.
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the reversal of the temporary difference can Property, plant and equipment be controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse Property, plant and equipment are stated in the statement of in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities are not financial position at cost less accumulated depreciation.
No recognised on temporary differences that arise from goodwill depreciation is provided on freehold land.
Freehold buildings and which is not deductible for tax purposes.
long leases are depreciated over their estimated useful lives up to a Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that maximum of 50 years.
Short leases are written off over the duration taxable profits will be available against which the deductible of the lease.
Depreciation is provided on other assets on a straight temporary differences can be utilised, and reviewed at the end of line basis over their estimated useful lives as follows: leasehold each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer improvements shorter of life of lease and 10 years: plant 3 to 20 probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all years: office furniture, fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years: computer or part of the asset to be recovered.
systems, communication networks and equipment 3 to 7 years.
indd 103 07 03 2014 11:25 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 104 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting policies Investments Leases Investments, other than investments in joint arrangements and Assets held under leases which confer rights and obligations associates, are stated in the statement of financial position at fair similar to those attaching to owned assets are classified as assets value.
Investments held as part of the venture capital portfolio are held under finance leases and capitalised within property, plant classified as held for trading, with changes in fair value reported in and equipment or software and the corresponding liability to pay disposals and other non operating items in the income statement.
rentals is shown net of interest in the statement of financial All other investments are classified as available for sale with position as obligations under finance leases.
The capitalised value changes in fair value recognised directly in equity until the of the assets is depreciated on a straight line basis over the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is concerned.
The interest element of the lease payments is brought into the net profit or loss for the period.
All items allocated so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge.
recognised in the income statement relating to investments, other Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a than investments in joint arrangements and associates, are straight line basis over the period of the leases.
Rental income reported as disposals and other non operating items.
from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over Available for sale investments and venture capital investments the term of the relevant lease.
held for trading represent investments in listed and unlisted securities.
The fair value of listed securities is determined based Cash and cash equivalents on quoted market prices, and of unlisted securities on Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits managements estimate of fair value based on standard valuation and other short term highly liquid investments and are held in the techniques, including market comparisons and discounts of future statement of financial position at fair value.
cash flows, having regard to maximising the use of observable inputs and adjusting for risk.
Advice from valuation experts is used Assets held for sale as appropriate.
Assets of businesses that are available for immediate sale in their current condition and for which a sales process is considered All joint arrangements are classified as joint ventures because highly probable to complete are classified as assets held for sale, Reed Elsevier shares joint control and has rights to the net assets and are carried at the lower of carrying value and fair value less of the arrangements.
Investments in joint ventures and associates costs to sell.
Fair value is based on anticipated disposal proceeds, are accounted for under the equity method and stated in the typically derived from firm or indicative offers from potential statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for postacquirers.
Non-current assets are not amortised or depreciated acquisition changes in Reed Elseviers share of net assets, less following their classification as held for sale.
Liabilities of any impairment in value.
businesses held for sale are also separately classified on the statement of financial position.
Impairment At each statement of financial position date, the carrying amounts Financial instruments of tangible and intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed to Financial instruments comprise investments other than determine whether there is any indication that those assets have investments in joint ventures or associates, trade receivables, suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the cash and cash equivalents, payables and accruals, borrowings recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair and derivative financial instruments.
value less costs to sell, of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where the Investments other than investments in joint ventures and asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from associates are classified as either held for trading or available for other assets, value in use estimates are made based on the cash sale, as described above.
These investments are typically flows of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.
classified as either Level 1 or 2 in the IFRS13 fair value hierarchy.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are tested for The fair value of such investments is based on either quoted impairment at least annually and whenever there is any indication market prices or other observable market inputs.
that the asset may be impaired.
Trade receivables are carried in the statement of financial position If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is at invoiced value less allowance for estimated irrecoverable estimated to be less than its net carrying amount, the net carrying amounts.
Irrecoverable amounts are estimated based on the amount of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its ageing of trade receivables, experience and circumstance.
Impairment losses are recognised Borrowings and payables are recorded initially at fair value and immediately in the income statement in administration and subsequently carried at amortised cost other than fixed rate other expenses.
borrowings in designated hedging relationships for which the carrying amount of the hedged portion of the borrowings is Inventories and pre-publication costs subsequently adjusted for the gain or loss attributable to the Inventories and pre-publication costs are stated at the lower of hedged risk.
cost, including appropriate attributable overhead, and estimated net realisable value.
Pre-publication costs, representing costs Derivative financial instruments are used to hedge interest rate incurred in the origination of content prior to publication, are and foreign exchange risks.
Changes in the fair value of derivative expensed systematically reflecting the expected sales profile over financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges the estimated economic lives of the related products, generally up of future cash flows are recognised net of tax directly in equity in to five years.
indd 104 07 03 2014 11:25 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 105 the hedge reserve.
If a hedged firm commitment or forecasted Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty transaction results in the recognition of a non financial asset or The most significant accounting policies in determining the liability, then, at the time that the asset or liability is recognised, financial condition and results of the Reed Elsevier combined the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously businesses, and those requiring the most subjective or complex been recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement judgement, relate to the valuation of goodwill and intangible of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the assets, capitalisation of development spend and taxation.
recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are Goodwill and acquired intangible assets recognised in the income statement in the same period in which On acquisition of a subsidiary or business, the purchase the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Any ineffective portion of consideration is allocated between the net tangible and intangible hedges is recognised immediately in the income statement.
assets other than goodwill on a fair value basis, with any excess Derivative financial instruments that are not designated as purchase consideration representing goodwill.
The valuation of hedging instruments are classified as held for trading and acquired intangible assets represents the estimated economic recorded in the statement of financial position at fair value, with value in use, using standard valuation methodologies, including as changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
appropriate, discounted cash flow, relief from royalty and comparable market transactions.
Acquired intangible assets are Where an effective hedge is in place against changes in the fair capitalised and amortised systematically over their estimated value of fixed rate borrowings, the hedged borrowings are useful lives, subject to impairment review.
adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with a corresponding income or expense included in the Appropriate amortisation periods are selected based on income statement within finance costs.
The offsetting gains or assessments of the longevity of the brands and imprints, the losses from remeasuring the fair value of the related derivatives strength and stability of customer relationships, the market are also recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
positions of the acquired assets and the technological and When the related derivative expires, is sold or terminated, or no competitive risks that they face.
Certain intangible assets in longer qualifies for hedge accounting, the cumulative change in relation to acquired science and medical publishing businesses fair value of the hedged borrowing is amortised in the income have been determined to have indefinite lives.
The longevity of statement over the period to maturity of the borrowing using the these assets is evidenced by their long established and well effective interest method.
regarded brands and imprints, and their characteristically stable market positions.
The fair values of interest rate swaps, interest rate options, forward rate agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts The carrying amounts of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible represent the replacement costs calculated using observable assets in each business are reviewed for impairment at least market rates of interest and exchange.
The fair value of long term annually.
The carrying amounts of all other intangible assets are borrowings is calculated by discounting expected future cash reviewed where there are indications of possible impairment.
An flows at observable market rates.
These instruments are impairment review involves a comparison of the carrying value of accordingly classified as Level 2 in the IFRS13 fair value hierarchy.
the asset with estimated values in use based on latest management cash flow projections.
Key areas of judgement in Cash flow hedge accounting is discontinued when a hedging estimating the values in use of businesses are the growth in cash instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no flows over a forecast period of up to five years, the long term longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative growth rate assumed thereafter and the discount rate applied to gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is the forecast cash flows.
either retained in equity until the firm commitment or forecasted transaction occurs, or, where a hedged transaction is no longer The discount rates used are based on the Reed Elsevier weighted expected to occur, is immediately credited or expensed in the average cost of capital, adjusted to reflect a risk premium specific income statement.
The pre-tax discount rates applied are 11.1% for Scientific, Technical & Medical, 11.6% for Risk Solutions, Provisions 11.5-12.8% for Business Information, 10.9-12.5% for Legal and Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists as a 9.5-13.0% for Exhibitions.
The nominal long term growth rates, result of a past event, the obligation is reasonably estimable, and which are based on historical growth rates and the growth it is probable that settlement will be required.
Provisions are prospects for businesses is 3%.
There were no charges for measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to impairment of acquired intangible assets and goodwill in 2013 settle the obligation at the statement of financial position date.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed based on changes in key Shares held in treasury assumptions considered to be reasonably possible by Shares of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV that are management: an increase in the discount rate of 0.5%: a decrease repurchased by the respective parent companies and not in the compound annual growth rate for adjusted operating cash cancelled are classified as shares held in treasury.
The flow in the five-year forecast period of 2.0%: and a decrease in consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is perpetuity growth rates of 0.5%.
The sensitivity analysis shows recognised as a deduction from equity.
Shares of the parent that impairment charges resulting from these scenarios companies that are purchased by the Reed Elsevier Group plc individually would be less than 5m.
Further information is Employee Benefit Trust are also classified as shares held in provided in note 14 to the combined financial statements.
treasury, with the cost recognised as a deduction from equity.
indd 105 07 03 2014 11:25 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 106 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting policies Development spend Pre-publication costs incurred in the creation of content prior to Development spend embraces investment in new products and production and publication are typically deferred and expensed other initiatives, ranging from the building of online delivery over their estimated useful lives based on sales profiles.
Such platforms, to launch costs of new services, to building new costs typically comprise direct internal labour costs and infrastructure applications.
Launch costs and other ongoing externally commissioned editorial and other fees.
Estimated operating expenses of new products and services are expensed useful lives generally do not exceed five years.
The costs of building product applications, platforms carried out to assess the recoverability of carrying amounts.
and infrastructure are capitalised as intangible assets, where the Reed Elsevier has exposures to sub lease shortfalls in respect of investment they represent has demonstrable value and the certain property leases for periods up to 2024.
Provisions are technical and commercial feasibility is assured.
Costs eligible for recognised for net liabilities expected to arise on these exposures.
capitalisation must be incremental, clearly identified and directly Estimation of the provisions requires judgement in respect of attributable to a particular project.
The resulting assets are future head lease costs, sub lease income and the length of amortised over their estimated useful lives.
The charge for property provisions was nil are carried out at least annually.
Judgement is required in the 2012:62m relating to surplus property arising on the assessment of the potential value of a development project, the restructuring, sale and closure of Business Information identification of costs eligible for capitalisation and the selection businesses and includes expected losses on sub leases entered of appropriate asset lives.
into during 2013 and an estimate of vacancy periods and future Taxation market conditions.
Further information is provided in note 26 to Reed Elsevier is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions, giving the combined financial statements.
rise to complex tax issues that require management to exercise Accounting for defined benefit pension schemes involves judgement in making tax determinations.
While Reed Elsevier is judgement about uncertain events, including the life expectancy confident that tax returns are appropriately prepared and filed, of the members, salary and pension increases, inflation and the amounts are provided in respect of uncertain tax positions that rate at which the future pension payments are discounted.
reflect the risk with respect to tax matters under active discussion Estimates for these factors are used in determining the pension with tax authorities, or which are otherwise considered to involve cost and liabilities reported in the financial statements.
Amounts are provided using the best estimate of tax best estimates of future developments are made in conjunction expected to be paid based on a qualitative assessment of all with independent actuaries.
Each scheme is subject to a periodic relevant factors.
However, it is possible that at some future date review by independent actuaries.
Details of key assumptions liabilities may be adjusted as a result of audits by taxing and sensitivity analysis is provided in note 5 to the combined authorities.
Discussions with tax authorities relating to cross financial statements.
border transactions and other matters are ongoing.
Although the outcome of these discussions cannot be predicted, no significant Standards and amendments effective for the year impact on the financial position of Reed Elsevier is expected.
With effect from 1 January 2013, IAS19 Employee Benefits In addition, estimation of income taxes includes assessments of revised inter alia changes the methodology used in the the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax assets are calculation of the net pension financing credit or charge in relation only recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable to defined benefit pension schemes.
Under the revised standard, based on existing tax laws and forecasts of future taxable profits pension asset returns included within the net pension financing against which the underlying tax deductions can be utilised.
The credit or charge are calculated by reference to the discount rate of recoverability of these assets is reassessed at the end of each high quality corporate bonds being also the discount rate applied reporting period, and changes in recognition of deferred tax in the calculation of pension obligations and are no longer based assets will affect the tax liability in the period of that on the expected returns on scheme assets.
The effect is to reduce reassessment.
the asset returns recognised in the income statement.
Other significant accounting policies Adoption of IAS19 revised has had no impact on Reed Elseviers The accounting policies in respect of revenue recognition, combined statement of financial position and statement of cash pre-publication costs, property provisioning and pensions are flows.
The net pension financing credit or charge is now presented also significant in determining the financial condition and results within net finance costs in Reed Elseviers combined income of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, although the statement, rather than within operating profit as previously application of these policies is more straightforward.
Given that the revised standard may introduce greater volatility to the income statement, the net pension financing credit Revenue recognition policies, while an area of management focus, or charge has been excluded from the adjusted figures used by are generally straightforward in application as the timing of Reed Elsevier as additional performance measures.
product or service delivery and customer acceptance for the various revenue types can be readily determined.
Allowances for As required under the revised standard, comparative figures have product returns are deducted from revenues based on historical been restated.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, operating return rates.
Where sales consist of two or more components profits are 25m lower and net finance costs are 11m higher than that operate independently, revenue is recognised as each previously reported.
On an adjusted basis, profit before tax is component is completed by performance, based on attribution 25m lower.
indd 106 07 03 2014 11:25 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 107 With effect from 1 January 2013, Reed Elsevier adopted IAS1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income amendments to IAS1.
The standard amends the grouping of items presented in the statement of comprehensive income into items that may be reclassified to the profit or loss in a future period and items that will never be reclassified.
With effect from 1 January 2013, Reed Elsevier also adopted IFRS10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities, and IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement, in addition to amendments toIAS27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and IAS28Investments in Associates.
Adoption of these new accounting standards and amendments has not had a significant impact on Reed Elseviers accounting policies or reporting.
With the exception of IFRS13, these standards and amendments have been early adopted for the purposes of Reed Elseviers application of IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective New accounting standards and amendments and their expected impact on the future accounting policies and reporting of Reed Elsevier are set out below.
IFRS9 Financial Instruments effective for the 2015 financial year.
The standard replaces the existing classification and measurement requirements in IAS39 for financial assets by requiring entities to classify them as being measured either at amortised cost or fair value depending on the business model and contractual cash flow characteristics of the asset.
For financial liabilities, IFRS9 requires an entity choosing to measure a liability at fair value to present the portion of the change in its fair value due to changes in the entitys own credit risk in the other comprehensive income rather than the income statement.
Adoption of the standard is not expected to have a significant impact on the measurement, presentation or disclosure of financial assets and liabilities in the combined financial statements.
Amendments to IAS36 Impairment of Assets effective for the 2014 financial year.
These amendments require disclosure of the recoverable amounts for the assets or CGUs for which an impairment loss has been recognised or reversed during the reporting period and are effective retrospectively.
Adoption of the standard is not expected to have a significant impact on disclosure in the combined financial statements.
Additionally, a number of amendments and interpretations have been issued which are not expected to have any significant impact on Reed Elseviers accounting policies and reporting.
