FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 184 REED ELSEVIER NV Group accounting policies These consolidated financial statements, which have been Combined financial statements prepared under the historical cost convention, report the The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, combined financial statements are set out on pages 102 to 107. cash flow, financial position and changes in equity of Reed Elsevier NV incorporated and domiciled in the Netherlands.
Basis of valuation of assets and liabilities Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts shown in the Reed Elsevier NVs 50% economic interest in the net assets of the financial statements are in millions of euros.
combined businesses has been shown on the consolidated statement of financial position as investments in joint As required by a regulation adopted by the European Parliament, ventures, net of the assets and liabilities reported as part of the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in ReedElsevier NV.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards equity method.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Cash and cash equivalents are stated at fair value.
Other assets and liabilities are stated at historical cost, less provision, if The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going appropriate, for any impairment in value.
concern basis, as explained on page 181.
The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements presented in Foreign exchange translation pounds sterling on pages 97 to 139 form an integral part of the Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of notes to Reed Elsevier NVs statutory financial statements.
The exchange prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each primary combined financial statements and selected notes are statement of financial position date, monetary assets and presented in euros on pages 142 to 154. liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate prevailing on the statement of financial As a consequence of the merger of the companys businesses position date.
Exchange differences arising are recorded in the withthose of Reed Elsevier PLC, described on page 69, the income statement.
The gains or losses relating to the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC can be retranslation of Reed Elsevier NVs 50% interest in the net assets regarded as having the interests of a single economic group, of the combined businesses are classified as equity and enjoying substantially equivalent ordinary dividend and capital transferred to the translation reserve.
rights in the earnings and net assets of the Reed Elsevier Combined Businesses.
The Combined Businesses are composed When foreign operations are disposed of, the related cumulative of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their translation differences are recognised within the income respective subsidiaries and joint ventures, together with the two statement in the period.
parent companies, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed ElsevierPLC.
The Combined Businesses are jointly controlled by Reed Elsevier NV Taxation and Reed Elsevier PLC.
Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Current and deferred tax are charged or credited in the income statement The Reed Elsevier NV consolidated financial statements are except to the extent that the tax arises from a transaction or event presented incorporating Reed Elsevier NVs investments in the which is recognised, in the same or a different period, outside Reed Elsevier Combined Businesses accounted for using the profit or loss either in other comprehensive income, directly equity method, as adjusted for the effects of the equalisation in equity, or through a business combination in which case the arrangement between Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC.
tax appears in the same statement as the transaction that gave The arrangement lays down the distribution of dividends and net rise to it.
assets in such a way that Reed Elsevier NVs share in the profit and net assets of the Reed Elsevier Combined Businesses equals Current tax is the amount of corporate income taxes payable or 50%, with all settlements accruing to shareholders from the recoverable based on the profit for the period as adjusted for items equalisation arrangements taken directly to reserves.
that are not taxable or not deductible, and is calculated using tax rates and laws that were enacted or substantively enacted at the Because the dividend paid to shareholders by Reed Elsevier NV is date of the statement of financial position.
Management equivalent to the Reed Elsevier PLC dividend plus, other than in periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect special circumstances, the UK tax credit received by certain Reed to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to Elsevier PLC shareholders, Reed Elsevier NV normally distributes interpretation.
Provisions are established where appropriate on a higher proportion of the combined profit attributable than Reed the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Reed Elsevier PLCs share in this difference in dividend distributions is settled with Reed Elsevier NV and is Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising credited directly to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying Reed Elsevier NV can pay a nominal dividend on its R shares held amounts in the statement of financial position.
Deferred tax is by a subsidiary of Reed Elsevier PLC that is lower than the dividend calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or on the ordinary shares.
Equally, Reed Elsevier NV has the substantively enacted at the end of the reporting period, and which possibility to receive dividends directly from Dutch affiliates.
are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is Reed Elsevier PLC is compensated by direct dividend payments by realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
The settlements flowing from these arrangements are also taken directly to consolidated reserves under equalisation.
indd 184 07 03 2014 13:06 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 185 Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences but not recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures where the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised on temporary differences that arise from goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised: and reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect of temporary differences that arise on initial recognition of assets and liabilities acquired other than in a business combination.
Deferred tax is not discounted.
Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in the preparation of the combined financial statements are set out on pages 105 to 106.
Standards and amendments effective for the year As described on page 106, of the combined accounts, the combined businesses adopted IAS19 Employee Benefits revised with effect from 1 January 2013.
As required under the revised standard, comparative figures have been restated.
For the year ended 31 December 2012, Reed Elsevier NVs share of results of joint ventures is 16m lower and basic earnings per share is 0.03 lower than previously reported.
On an adjusted basis earnings per share is 0.01 lower than previously reported.
With effect from 1 January 2013, the combined businesses alsoadopted various other standards, interpretations and amendments to IFRS, none of which have had a significant impacton Reed Elseviers accounting policies or reporting.
Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective Recently issued standards, amendments and interpretations and their impact on future accounting policies and reporting have been considered on page 107 of the combined financial statements.
