Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 45 Progress 2013 OBJECTIVES 2.
Governance Achieve 100% completion of all 100% completion The Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct The Code computer-based compliance achieved within six isdisseminated to every employee, setting the standard for our courses months of issuance corporate and individual conduct.
It covers topics such as fair Advance Record Management Translations completed competition, anti-bribery, conflicts of interest, employment Policy implementation and roll and disseminated to practices, and protecting intellectual property.
It also encourages out translations relevant employees the reporting of violations, and prohibits retaliation.
The Code makes clear our commitment to human rights, incorporating the Implementation principles of the United Nations Global Compact UNGC.
In guidelines and tools accordance with the UNs Guiding Principles on Business and available in multiple Human Rights, we have considered where and how we operate and languages: ongoing have concluded that there is low human rights risk in our direct collaboration with employment activities for more information on human rights see business unit teams Supply Chain.
Enhanced training programme Completed training of US for internal investigators of HR personnel, data All employees complete training on the Code, both as part of their Code of Ethics and Business privacy and security new hire induction and at regular intervals, to update their Conduct breaches investigators, and understanding and acknowledgement of the Code.
We also Corporate Audit Services provide mandatory online training on anti-bribery, competition representatives.
laws, protecting data, and preventing workplace harassment, supplemented by in-person training for higher risk roles.
2014 training of HR Weachieve 100% completion rates for all courses within six representatives outside months of issuance.
the US planned In 2013, we remained diligent in our ongoing efforts to ensure 2014 OBJECTIVES compliance with applicable bribery laws, including the UK Bribery Act and US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, through intermediary Implement updated corporate governance policies due diligence and monitoring, strict limits on gifts, hospitality and Conduct a review and refresh of the Reed Elsevier Code of gratuities, and employee awareness efforts, among other steps.
Ethics and Business Conduct Also this year, we developed employee training on intellectual Evaluate Reed Elseviers Export and Trade Controls Policy property and using social media, and enhanced internal and compliance efforts investigation procedures and training of investigators for all types of alleged employee misconduct.
We also translated our Record Management Policy, Record Retention Schedule, and related resources for non-English-speaking employees to help them properly manage company records.
As a signatory to UNGC and its principles, encompassing labour, environment, anti-corruption, as well as human rights, we demonstrated leadership in 2013 by serving on the UNGC Advisory Group for the UK and the UNGC Supply Chain Advisory Group.
Wewere also part of the UNGCs CEO Water Mandate Steering Group and represented the initiative on the board of the Alliance for Water Stewardship.
A member of the UNGC Caring for ClimateAdvisory Group, we participated in the Caring for Climate Business Forum in Warsaw, held during the UN Climate Change Conference COP 19, to support innovation and collaboration on climate action.
The UNGC judged our 2013 Communication on Progress, required of signatories each year, to have attained Advanced Level.
In the year, we provided content for the UNGC Lawyers as Leaders video series, and hosted UNGC meetings in London and New York.
