FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 206 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder information Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 Information for Reed Elsevier PLC The Annual Reports and Financial Statements for the Reed ordinary shareholders Elsevier combined businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV for the year ended 31 December 2013, and the Shareholder services Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV are The Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share register is administered available on the Reed Elsevier website, and from the registered byEquiniti Limited.
Equiniti provides a free online portal for offices of the respective parent companies shown on page 209. shareholders at www.
Shareview allows Additional financial information, including the interim and shareholders to monitor the value of their shareholdings, view their full-year results announcements, Interim Management dividend payments and submit dividend mandate instructions.
Statements and presentations is also available on the Reed Shareholders can also submit their proxy voting instructions Elsevier website, www.
ahead of company meetings, as well as update their personal The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements set out in the contact details.
Shareview Dealing provides a share purchase Annual Reports and Financial Statements are expressed in andsale facility.
Equinitis contact details appear on page 209. sterling, with summary combined financial information expressed in euros.
The financial statements of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Electronic communications Elsevier NV are expressed in sterling and euros respectively.
While hard copy shareholder communications continue to be available to those shareholders requesting them, in accordance Interim results with the Companies Act 2006 and the company's articles of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV no longer publish interim association, Reed Elsevier PLC uses the Reed Elsevier website results in hard copy.
The interim results are available on the Reed as the main method of communicating with shareholders.
By registering their details online at Shareview, shareholders can be notified by email when shareholder communications Share price information are published on the website.
Shareholders can also use the Reed Elsevier PLCs ordinary shares are quoted on the London Shareview website to appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at Stock Exchange.
Reed Elsevier NVs ordinary shares are quoted on the NYSE Shareholders who hold their Reed Elsevier PLC shares through Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange.
CREST may appoint proxies for shareholder meetings through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service by using the The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are procedures described in the CREST manual.
quoted on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Dividend mandates Receipts ADRs.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC ADR represents four Shareholders are encouraged to have their dividends paid directly Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
Each Reed Elsevier NV ADR into a UK bank or building society account.
This method of payment represents two Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares.
reduces the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share and ensures the account is credited on the dividend payment prices and the ADR prices may be obtained from the Reed Elsevier date.
A dividend mandate form can be obtained online at website, other online sources and the financial pages of some www.
co. uk, or by contacting Equiniti at the address newspapers.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION VISIT WWW.
COM Equiniti has established a service for overseas shareholders in over 90 countries, which enables shareholders to have their dividends automatically converted from sterling and paid directly into their nominated bank account.
Further details of this service, and the fees applicable, are available at www.
co. uk or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 209. Dividend Reinvestment Plan Shareholders can choose to reinvest their Reed Elsevier PLC dividends by purchasing further shares through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP provided by Equiniti.
Further information concerning the DRIP facility, together with the terms and conditions and an application form can be obtained online at www.
co. uk dividends or by contacting Equiniti at the address shown on page 209.
indd 206 07 03 2014 12:11 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 207 Share dealing service How to avoid share fraud and boiler room scans A telephone and internet dealing service is available through Reed The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has issued some guidance Elsevier PLCs Registrar, Equiniti, which provides a simple way for on how to recognise and avoid investment fraud: UK-resident shareholders to buy or sell Reed Elsevier PLC Legitimate firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact shares.
For telephone dealing call 08456 037 037 between 8.00am you unexpectedly with an offer to buy or sell shares.
and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing log on to www.
You will need your shareholder If you receive an unsolicited phone call, do not get into a account number shown on your dividend tax voucher.
conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call.
Individual savings account ISA Check the Financial Services Register available at A single company ISA for Reed Elsevier PLC shares is available www.
uk to see if the person and firm contacting you through Equiniti.
Details may be obtained from is authorised by the FCA.
If you wish to call the person or www.
co. uk ISA, by writing to Equiniti at the address firm back, only use the contact details listed on the Register.
shown on page 209, or by calling their ISA helpline on 0871 384 2244.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have any ShareGift contact details on the Register, or if you are told that they are The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation out of date.
scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at makes it uneconomic to sell them.
Details of the scheme can be www.
obtained from the ShareGift website at www.
org, or by telephoning ShareGift on 020 7930 3737.
If you do buy or sell shares through an unauthorised firm, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or the Sub-division of ordinary shares and share consolidation Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
On 28 July 1986, each Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share of 1 Consider obtaining independent financial and professional nominal value was sub-divided into four ordinary shares of 25p advice before you hand over any money.
If it sounds too good to each.
On 2 May 1997, each 25p ordinary share was sub-divided into be true it probably is.
two ordinary shares of 12.5p each.
On 7 January 2008, the ordinary shares of 12.5p each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new How to report a scam 51 ordinary shares of 14 116p nominal value for every 67 ordinary If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the FCA using the shares of 12.5p each held.
share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the Capital gains tax FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
The mid-market price of Reed Elsevier PLCs 1 ordinary shares on 31 March 1982 was 282p.
Adjusting for the sub-divisions and If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you should share consolidation referred to above results in an equivalent contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. mid-marketprice of 40.72p for each existing ordinary share of 51 14 116p nominal value.
Warning to shareholders unsolicited investment advice From time to time shareholders may receive unsolicited calls from fraudsters.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams, sometimes known as boiler room scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000.
indd 207 07 03 2014 12:11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION 208 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Information for Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shareholders Shareholder enquiries Enquiries from holders of Reed Elsevier NV registered ordinary shares in relation to share transfers, dividends, change of address and bank accounts should be directed to the Company Secretary of Reed Elsevier NV, at the registered office address shown on page 209.
Dividends Dividends on Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares are declared and paid in euros.
Registered shareholders in Reed Elsevier NV will receive dividends from the company by transmission to the bank account which they have notified to the company.
Dividends on shares in bearer form are paid through the intermediary of a bank or broker.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan By instructing their bank or intermediary, shareholders can choose to reinvest their Reed Elsevier NV dividends by purchasing further shares through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP provided by ABN AMRO Bank NV.
Further information concerning the DRIP facility can be obtained online at www.
Consolidation of ordinary shares On 7 January 2008, the Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share of 0.06 each were consolidated on the basis of 58 new ordinary shares of 0.07 each for every 67 ordinary shares of 0.06 each held.
Information for Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ADRholders The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ADR Depositary is BNY Mellon.
Reed Elsevier PLCs CUSIP number is 758205207 and its trading symbol is RUK.
Each Reed Elsevier PLC ADR represents four ReedElsevier PLC ordinary shares.
Reed Elsevier NVs CUSIP number is 758204200 and its trading symbol is ENL.
Each Reed Elsevier NV ADR represents two ReedElsevier NV ordinary shares.
ADR shareholder services Enquiries concerning Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV ADRs should be addressed to the ADR Depositary at the address shown on page 209.
Dividends Dividend payments on Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV ADRs are converted into US dollars by the ADR Depositary.
Annual Report on Form 20-F The Annual Report on Form 20-F for the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV is filed electronically with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
A copy of the Form 20-F is available on the Reed Elsevier website, or from the ADR Depositary at the address shown on page 209.
