Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 49 6.
Environment We require our suppliers to meet the high standards we set for Our targets reflect our performance and key issues and can be ourselves.
Our Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates adherence to found along with full details in the 2013 Corporate Responsibility all laws and best practice in areas such as human rights, labour, Report at www.
Through our Socially Responsible Supplier We attained 40% of our electricity from renewable sources in SRS database, in 2013, we tracked 613 critical, preferred and theyear and were ranked among the top FTSE 350 companies for strategic suppliers, and those we deem high risk according to disclosure and performance in the 2013 CDP Leadership Index, criteria encompassing the Corporate Executive Boards Global representing 722 investors with assets of $87,000bn.
Country Analysis Support Tool, human trafficking data from the US State Department, and the Environmental Performance Index Our Environmental Champions network, employee-led Green produced by Yale University and Columbia University.
The tracking Teams, and engagement through networks such as Publishers list changes year-on-year based on the number of suppliers we do database for Responsible Ethical Paper Sourcing, inform how we business with who meet the required criteria.
We started 2013 address our environmental impact.
Among them is the Reed with 51% of suppliers on the SRS tracking list as signatories to the Elsevier Environmental Standards programme, which sets Supplier Code and reached 79% by year end.
We have embedded benchmark performance levels and inspires green competition signing the Supplier Code into our e-sourcing tool as one of the among offices.
In 2013, 77 sites 64% of key locations achieved five criteria for doing business with us and an additional 2,784 or more standards attaining green status.
Reed Elseviers Chief suppliers have signed up.
Financial Officer wrote to all staff recognising their achievement on World Environment Day and also identified Green Heroes Specialist supply chain auditors undertook 56 external audits of across the company, nominated by their peers for their high-risk suppliers in 2013.
Any incidence of non-compliance with environmental efforts.
the Supplier Code identified in the audit process triggers a corrective action plan with supplier remediation required on all We have a positive environmental impact through our issues.
In the year, we began using our external audit partners environmental publications and services which spread good Workplace Conditions Assessment template to benchmark practice, encourage debate, and aid researchers and decision high-risk supplier audit performance.
The most recent results from independent Market Analysis System show our share of citations in environmental We developed a new US Supplier Diversity Plan in 2013 to identify science represented 40% of the total market, and 81% in energy and create opportunities for diverse suppliers.
In the year, we mapped the range of Reed Elsevier provisions is providing successful and non-awarded diverse environmental products and services which includes 490 suppliers with feedback after competitive bidding and capacity products encompassing topics such as ocean and coastal building opportunities.
management, forestry, environmental law, waste management, Progress 2013 OBJECTIVES and trade shows on environmental engineering, renewable energy, and water.
78% of key suppliers as 79% 487 of 613 key Supplier Code of Conduct suppliers : 2,784 other Progress 2013 OBJECTIVES signatories Supplier Code 35% of electricity from 40% achieved signatories renewable energy or offsets 55 external audits of high risk 56 completed 60% of key locations to achieve 64% achieved 77 suppliers five or more updated RE locations vs. 69 in 2012 Develop new US Supplier Plan and Environmental Standards Diversity Plan implementation Map range of Reed Elsevier 490 products identified: process developed environmental products information shared and services across the business 2014 OBJECTIVES Supplier Code of Conduct incorporated into terms and 2014 OBJECTIVES conditions of purchase orders 45% of electricity from renewable energy or offsets Expand use of Workplace Conditions Assessment tool to 70% of key locations to achieve five or more RE enhance high-risk supplier audits Environmental Standards Implement new US Supplier Diversity programme Expand Green Heroes programme recognising employee action 29275 SAS p041-050.
