BUSINESS REVIEW 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY launched a health coach programme to provide personalised 3.
People support, available to all US employees.
Of them, 226 have made Our 28,200 people are our strength.
Our workforce is 53% female contact with a coach for help with issues such as diet, exercise, and 47% male, with an average length of service of eight years.
and smoking cessation, and 2,808 calls were made to Care There were 44% female and 56% male managers and 30% female Connect, a health concierge service.
and 70% male senior operational managers.
Our annual re:fit2win global wellbeing competition encourages The Reed Elsevier Nominations Committee considers the employees to establish fitness teams to compete for cash prizes knowledge, experience and background of individual Board for the charities of their choice.
Across Reed Elsevier 79 teams Directors.
By year end 2013, women made up 30% of the members took part and ran, walked, cycled and swam a total of 73,382 miles of the Reed Elsevier NV Board and 22% of the members of the 118,097 kilometres, with an increase of 50 miles 80 kilometres Reed Elsevier PLC Board.
The two Executive Directors of the perperson over 2012.
Board, who constitute senior management, are male.
2013 OBJECTIVES Progress The Reed Elsevier Diversity and Inclusion D&I Statement Expand diversity and inclusion Training expanded www.
com go Diversity, articulates our training across business units across the US and into commitment to a diverse workforce and environment that the UK respects individuals and their contributions, regardless of their Follow up on global Employee Extensive efforts across gender, race, or other characteristics.
Our D&I Strategy is focused Opinion Survey results all business units: on translating the Statement into practical action.
Among its tracking improvements commitments is maintaining a D&I Advisory Group comprised of a in interim pulse survey senior business and HR leader from each business unit, supported scores by a broader D&I Working Group.
We expanded D&I training in the Institute health coach 2,808 calls logged: 226 year, with in-person sessions for Elsevier managers in six US programme to provide staff engaged in a cities: online training for LexisNexis Risk Solutions US managers: personalised support to staff lifestyle management in-person sessions for LexisNexis Legal & Professional UK programme managers, and Reed Elsevier head office managers.
Course content includes making the business case for D&I on ethical, 2014 OBJECTIVES economic, regulatory, and reputational grounds.
We encourage both affinity groups, such as womens forums, which provide Sign up to the UN Womens Empowerment Principles: support and mentoring, and community involvement.
review practice relative to Principles In 2012, we conducted a global Employee Opinion Survey EOS to Develop inclusive leadership as a core management understand how our people view Reed Elsevier.
We donated $1 for competency every completed survey to our global fundraising effort for Plan 10% increase in re:fit2win participants UK focused on education for girls in Peru and pre-school education for ethnic minority children in China, and had 77% EOS participation.
Overall, employees rate Reed Elsevier as a company 4.
Customers that employs strong, ethical principles in its business practices with improved scores since the last survey in 2009 in overall In 2013, we surveyed approximately 500,000 customers through satisfaction, innovation, and customer focus.
Local action plans Net Promoter Score measuring customer loyalty and business led by managers have been undertaken in all business units: at dashboard programmes.
This allows us to deepen understanding LexisNexis Risk Solutions for example, follow-up has included of their needs and further drives forward a customer-centric focus groups and manager coaching, and senior leaders have key culture across Reed Elsevier.
Results, reviewed by the CEO and performance objectives to improve EOS and pulse survey shorter, senior operational managers and communicated to staff, highlight more frequent staff polling results.
where we are doing well and where we must do better.
To aid colleagues who work with customers, during the year, we have Our employees have the right to a healthy and safe workplace as worked to incorporate CR into customer-facing staff training with outlined in the Reed Elsevier Global Health and Safety Policy.
We outreach to key sales and marketing teams.
We have updated our concentrate on areas of greatest risk, for example, warehouses, intranet resource, CR as a Sales Tool: created a CR Fast Facts events, and exhibitions.
However, as a primarily office-based document for distribution across the business: and developed new company, our key impact areas are manual handling, slips, trips CR Sales Academy content.
To reduce our severity rate lost days per 200,000 hours worked, we conduct risk assessments, and work with a third In the year, we shared the Reed Elsevier Editorial Policy with all party in the US to assign a nurse case manager to each complex or employees in an email from the Chief Legal Officer and Company severe claim.
The number of lost time reportable cases decreased Secretary highlighting its importance and key provisions, in the year 36 in 2013 vs 49 in 2012. including our responsibility to make clear distinctions between fact and opinion and user-generated or other content.
With help In the US, where we have our largest concentration of employees, from our cross-business Editorial Policy Working Group, we the REACH programme promotes workplace wellbeing through created a new section of our global intranet with input from our health screenings, online assessments, stress awareness editors and others who have shared what the principles mean to training, and weight loss and smoking cessation programmes, them and their businesses.
with financial incentives for participation.
