BUSINESS REVIEW 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Corporate responsibility 1.
Our unique contributions Corporate responsibility ensures We focus on areas where we can make a positive impact on society good management of risks and through our knowledge, resources and skills.
This includes universal sustainable access to information, advance of science opportunities, helps us attract and and health, protection of society, and promotion of the rule of law and access to justice.
retain the best people, and Elsevier, the worlds leading provider of scientific, technical, and strengthens our corporate medical information, plays an important role in advancing human welfare and economic progress through its science and health reputation.
It means performing to information, which spurs the diffusion of innovation and enables critical decision making.
To ensure access to this information, the highest commercial and Elsevier supports key programmes in places where resources are often scarce.
Among them is Research4Life, a partnership with ethical standards and channelling United Nations agencies and other publishers: we provide core and cutting-edge scientific information to researchers in more our knowledge and strengths, as than 100 developing countries.
As a founding partner, we contribute 25% of the content available in Research4Life, global leaders in our industries, encompassing all ScienceDirect content, including approximately 3,000 Elsevier journals and 12,000 books.
In the year, there tomake a difference to society.
weremore than 3m Research4Life article downloads from ScienceDirect.
Research undertaken by Elsevier in 2013 shows Constant engagement with stakeholders, including shareholders, African authors have nearly doubled their output of research employees, governments, and communities in which we operate, articles over the past decade, aided by programmes like helps us determine material corporate responsibility issues.
In addition to support for ongoing projects, the TheReed Elsevier Boards, senior management, and the Elsevier Foundation committed $700,000 to libraries, new Corporate Responsibility Forum oversee corresponding scholars, and nurses, including a grant to the Mariners objectives and monitor performance against them.
Polytechnic Colleges Foundation of the Philippines.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions tools and resources help protect We concentrate on the contributions we make as a business society.
During the year, it launched Social Media Monitor, a new and on good management of the material areas that affect all capability within its Accurint for Law Enforcement platform, to companies, encompassing: assist law enforcement officials with investigations into critical incidents such as gang violence, drug dealing, crimes against 1.
Our unique contributions children, and human trafficking.
Social Media Monitor allows law 2.
Governance enforcement personnel to identify posts and tweets by keyword and geographic location as an additional resource alongside 3.
People traditional public records data.
Customers technology also helps governments fight fraud.
In the year, LexisNexis Risk Solutions partnered with investigators, Tax 5.
Community Management Associates, Inc. to help Greenville County, South 6.
Supply chain Carolina recover nearly $3m in revenue by detecting fraudulent tax exemption filings, including individuals receiving exemptions 7.
Environment under the names of deceased property owners.
Astudy commissioned in 2013 by LexisNexis Risk Solutions using its Fraud Multiplier tool, calculated the actual cost of US fraud retailers lost $279 for every $100 of fraud, attributable to fees and interest owed to financial institutions, charge-backs, and other replacement costs.
The study advocated greater awareness of the wide range of fraud schemes, particularly those associated with online purchases.
Reed Business Information RBI uses the power of its brands to aid communities.
In 2013, RBIs Community Care drew attention to shortcomings in Englands mental health provision in a joint investigation with the BBC.
"This led the UK governments Care Services Minister to pledge an end to ""institutional bias against mental health"" in the National Health Service."
ICIS, an RBI service providing news and market intelligence to the chemicals, energy, and fertiliser sectors, held its 10th Innovation Awards in 2013 to reward industry innovation.
indd 42 07 03 2014 10:50 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 43 More than three-quarters of abducted children who are murdered are killed ADAM PROGRAM: within the first three hours after their disappearance.
BRINGING HOME This terrifying reality led a team of LexisNexis Risk Solutions employees to develop the Automated Delivery of Alerts MISSING CHILDREN on Missing Children ADAM Program, which assists in the safe recovery of missing children.
The initiatives name is also in memory of a six-year old boy, Adam Walsh, who was kidnapped in 1981.
ADAM alerts circulate missing child posters in minutes more than 2m in 2013 to police, news media, schools, businesses, medical centres, and other recipients within a specific geographic search area.
Since launching in 2000, 139 children have been located, including four in 2013.
ADAM is WE ARE GRATEFUL TO LEXISNEXIS FOR ITS LONGdesignated for use by the National Center STANDING COMMITMENT TO HELPING FIND MISSING for Missing and Exploited Children CHILDREN THROUGH THE ADAM PROGRAM.
BY ENABLING NCMEC in the US.
The colleagues behind THE RAPID DISTRIBUTION OF PHOTOGRAPHS, THEY ADAM exemplify the Reed Elsevier values ARE HELPING BRING MISSING CHILDREN HOME AND of innovation, boundarylessness, and DELIVERING HOPE TO THEIR FAMILIES.
John Ryan CEO, National Centre for Missing and Exploited Children 139 children recovered since 2000 29275 SAS p041-050.
indd 43 07 03 2014 10:50 BUSINESS REVIEW 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY During the year, we progressed our collaboration with UNICEF on Boston-based Cabot Corporation waschosen overall winner and the report, Social protection, Disaster Risk Reduction, and Climate winner of the Innovation with Best Environmental Benefit award Change Adaptation in East Asia and the Pacific, providing access to for its aerogel building insulation technology lightweight, silica content and subject experts, and editorial assistance.
The report, materials consisting of 90% air which prevent heat transfer featuring in-depth case studies from Thailand and the Philippines, whichincreases energy efficiency and cost savings, and reduces was profiled at a workshop for corporate peers and NGOs to carbon footprints.
advance awareness of climate change resilience.
A follow-up LexisNexis Legal & Professional promotes justice through its workshop will be held in 2014 for academics, practitioners, and products and services.
In 2013, in association with the Atlantic policymakers to explore translating the reports findings into Council, it launched a draft set of Global Rule of Law Business programming and policy for children in EastAsia and the Pacific.
Principles to help businesses, law firms, non-governmental organisations, and other institutions promote and uphold the rule 2013 OBJECTIVES Progress of law.
In conjunction with the launch, the first-ever LexisNexis New partnerships through Partnership with Dutch Rule of Law Awards were awarded to UN Secretary-General Ban Reed Elsevier Environmental WASH Alliance: Ki-moon, former President of Ireland, Mary Robinson, and former Challenge to share water and Funded $15,000 third President of the American Bar Association, Laurel Bellows, all of sanitation expertise prize and collaboration whom have each made significant contributions to the rule of law on 2013 prize ceremony around the world.
Aung San Su Kyi, Chair of the National League at World Water Week in for Democracy and Parliamentary Rule of Law and Tranquility Stockholm Committee Pyithu Hluttaw, also received an inaugural award and accepted from Myanmar.
LexisNexis Legal & Professional will Provided judge and be working with the UN to refine and advance the Principles in the reviewers year ahead.
In 2013, staff in South Africa launched the Human Contributed $2,500 for Trafficking Awareness Index, building on a tool developed by UK training to advance colleagues in2012.
It uses the business units Nexis news service winners personal to highlight emerging trends within and across national borders to development aid campaigners and the South African Police Service in their efforts to combat trafficking.
Create cross-business Over 30 cross-business alternative energy round table participants Reed Exhibitions trade shows provide platforms for supporting to foster knowledge sharing our corporate responsibility focus areas.
During the 2013 PSI Meetings on emerging and product development Trade Show, the leading European show for the promotional topics: also presentations products industry, Reed Exhibitions, with the European by internal external Promotional Products Association EPPA, launched the EPPA experts Certification Program for CSR.
The aim is to help industry Renewable energy companies comply with laws and regulations and International industry event planned Labor Organization standards.
At the 2013 World Travel Market, Deliver workshops with Hosted workshop for its global event for the travel industry, Reed Exhibitions hosted UNICEF on child-centred corporate peers and World Responsible Tourism Day with events available to the climate change adaptation in NGOs to advance shows more than 50,000 attendees on topics ranging from high-risk locations awareness of climate poverty reduction to wildlife protection and reducing greenhouse change resilience, gas emissions.
Over the past 10 years, Reed Exhibitions has given focusing on Philippine free space at the London Book Fair to Book Aid International, case study in the wake which annually provides more than 500,000 books including ofTyphoon Haiyan those donated from across Reed Elsevier to readers in the developing world, enabling the charity to engage with a wide range Continued in-kind of potential book and financial donors.
assistance including access to information, Drawing on expertise in alternative energy across Reed Elsevier, subject experts, and in 2013, we launched the Alternative Energy Roundtable to editorial support facilitate cross-business understanding of our products and new developments in alternative energy.
At meetings held during the 2014 OBJECTIVES year, more than 30 colleagues from our business units discussed topics such as emerging markets, R&D, and customer Partner with United Nations Global Compact to refine and engagement.
In addition, it was the theme of our 2013 CR Forum launch stakeholder consultation on the Global Rule of Law Stakeholder Session with internal and external specialists, Business Principles including Jan Paul Groll, Elseviers Managing Director of Develop media and or academic partnership to further Alternative Energy: Richard Sobelsohn, LexisNexis Legal & awareness and engagement with the Reed Elsevier Professionals Director of Content and Product Initiatives: Blaine Environmental Challenge Collison, Director of the US Environmental Protection Agencys Collaboration with Oxfam to advance the Raising Her Voice Green Power Partnership: and Professor Jinyue Yan, Director of womens leadership programme in Nepal Future Energy at Swedens Royal Institute of Technology.
