Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2013 89 The following targets and vesting scales apply to awards granted ROIC in the third Average growth in adjusted year of the in 2013: Vesting percentage of EPS EPS over the three-year performance and ROIC tranches performance period period BIP: 2013-15 cycle 0% below 5% p. a. below 11.2% ROIC in the third 33% 5% p. a.
11.2% Average growth in adjusted EPS year of the Match earned on personal over the three-year performance 52.5% 6% p. a.
11.45% investment performance period period 65% 7% p. a.
12.45% 100% 9% p. a. or above 12.2% or above 100% 11% p. a. or above 12.7% or above EPS and ROIC have equal weighting and straight-line vesting applies to Vesting is on a straight-line basis for performance between the stated average performance between the points.
adjusted EPS growth ROIC percentages.
LTIP: 2013-15 cycle ESOS: 2013-2015 cycle Vesting is dependent on three separate performance measures of Average growth in adjusted EPS over the equal weighting: a TSR measure, an EPS measure and a ROIC Proportion of the award vesting three-year performance period 1 measure.
33% 4% p. a. Vesting percentage of each third of TSR ranking within the relevant TSR 2 80% 6% p. a. the TSR tranche comparator group 100% 8% p. a. or above 0% Below median 30% Median Vesting is on a straight-line basis for performance between the stated average adjusted EPS growth percentages.
The calculation methodology for TSR, EPS and ROIC, and the components of the REGP: matching awards TSR comparator groups, are set out in the 2013 Notices of Annual General As disclosed in previous reports, vesting is dependent on three Meetings, which can be found on the companys website.
separate performance measures of equal weighting: a TSR 2.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum and maximum levels.
measure, anEPS measure and a ROIC measure.
The three TSR comparator groups Sterling, Euro and US Dollar Vesting percentage of each third of TSR ranking within the relevant TSR the TSR tranche comparator group reflect the fact that Reed Elsevier accesses equity capital markets through three exchanges London, Amsterdam and New York 0% Below median inthree currency zones.
Reed Elseviers TSR performance is 30% Median measured separately against each comparator group and each 100% Upper quartile ranking achieved will produce a payout, if any, in respect of Vesting is on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum and one-third of the TSR measure.
The proportion of the TSR measure maximum levels.
that vests will be the sum of the three payouts.
ROIC in the second Each comparator group comprises approximately 40 companies, Average growth in adjusted year of the selected on the following basis for the 2013-15 LTIP cycle: Vesting percentage of EPS EPS over the two-year performance and ROIC tranches performance period period a they were in a relevant market index or are the largest listed 0% below 7% p. a. below 10.7% companies on the relevant exchanges at the end of the year 60% 7% p. a.
10.7% before the start of the performance period: the FTSE 100 for 100% 13% p. a. or above 12.7% or above the Sterling group: AEX, NYSE Euronext and the Frankfurt Stock Exchange for the Euro group: and the S&P 500 for the Vesting is on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum and maximum levels.
USDollar group: b certain companies were then excluded: External appointments those with mainly domestic revenues as they do not reflect The Committee believes that the experience gained by allowing the global nature of Reed Elseviers customer base : Executive Directors to serve as Non-Executive Directors on the boards those engaged in extractive industries as they are exposed of other organisations is of benefit to Reed Elsevier.
Accordingly, to commodity cycles : and Executive Directors may, subject to the approval of the Chairman financial services companies as they have a different risk and the CEO or the Chairman only in the case of the CEO, serve as reward profile : Non-Executive Directors on the boards of up to two non-associated c the remaining companies were then ranked by market companies of which only one may be a major company and they capitalisation and, for each comparator group, the 20 may retain remuneration arising from such appointments.
companies above and below Reed Elsevier were taken: d relevant listed global peers operating in businesses similar to Duncan Palmer is a Non-Executive Director of Oshkosh those of Reed Elsevier but not otherwise included were added.
Corporation and received fees of 63,141 for 2013.
Payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office audited There have been no payments to past Directors or payments for loss of office in 2013.
