Shareholder information Corporate directory Secretary and Registered Office Legal advisers to the Company as to English law Tim Regan, Company Secretary Slaughter and May Regus plc Socit Anonyme One Bunhill Row Registered Office: Registered Head Office: London EC1Y 8YY 22 Grenville Street 26 Boulevard Royal Legal advisers to the Company as to Luxembourg law St Helier L-2449 Luxembourg MNKS Jersey Vertigo Polaris Building JE4 8PX 2 4 rue Eugne Ruppert L-2453 Luxembourg Registered Number Corporate Stockbrokers Jersey Luxembourg Investec Bank plc 101523 R. C. S. B 141 159 2 Gresham Street Registrars London EC2V 7QP Capita Registrars Jersey Limited Goldman Sachs 12 Castle Street Peterborough Court St Helier 133 Fleet Street Jersey JE2 3RT London EC4A 2BB Auditor Financial PR Advisors KPMG Luxembourg S. r. l. Brunswick Group LLP 9 Alle Scheffer 16 Lincolns Inn Fields L-2520 Luxembourg London WC2A 3ED Glossary Available workstations Like for like The total number of workstations in the Group also termed The financial performance from centres owned and operated for a Inventory.
During the year, this is expressed as a weighted full 12 month period prior to the start of the financial year which average.
At period ends the absolute number is used therefore have a full year comparative Centre Contribution Mature business Gross profit comprising centre revenues less direct operating Operations owned for a full 12 month period prior to the start of expenses but before administrative expenses the financial year which therefore have a full year comparative EBITDA Occupancy Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Occupied workstations divided by available workstations expressed as a percentage EBITDAR Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rent Occupied workstations Workstations which are in use by clients.
This is expressed as a Enquiries weighted average for the year Client enquiries about Regus products or services REVPAW Expansions Total revenue per available workstation Revenue Available A general term which includes new business centres established workstations by Regus and acquired centres in the year REVPOW Forward Order Book Total revenue per occupied workstation The future workstation revenue already contracted with clients at a point in time WIPOW Workstation income per occupied workstation www.
com investors 109 Regus plc S. A.
com The Forest Stewardship Council FSC is an international network which promotes responsible management of the worlds forests.
Forest certi cation is combined with asystem of product labelling that allows consumers to readily identify timber-based products from certi ed forests.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc | www.
com Printed in England by the Pureprint Group
