Shareholder Financial Overview Performance Governance information statements Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 105 Shareholder Information NOTICE OF MEETING THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended immediately to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Renishaw plc, you should pass this document and the accompanying form of proxy without delay to the stockbroker, bank or other person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the 40th annual general meeting AGM of the Company will be held at its offices at New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire GL12 8JR on Thursday 17th October 2013 at noon.
You will be asked to consider and, if thought fit, pass the resolutions below.
Resolution 15 will be proposed as a special resolution.
This means that for this resolution to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
All other resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means that for each of these resolutions to be passed, more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and auditors and the financial statements for the year ended 30th June 2013: 2.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 30th June 2013: 3.
To re-elect as a director Sir David McMurtry, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 4.
To re-elect as director John Deer, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 5.
To re-elect as director ben Taylor, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 6.
To re-elect as director Allen Roberts, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 7.
To re-elect as a director Geoff McFarland, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 8.
To re-elect as a director David Grant, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 9.
To re-elect as a director bill Whiteley, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: 10.
To elect as a director Carol Chesney, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers herself for election: 11.
To elect as a director John Jeans, a director retiring voluntarily and who, being eligible, offers himself for election: 12.
To approve the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 30th June 2013 contained in the Annual report 2013: 13.
T o appoint KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold office from the conclusion of the meeting to the conclusion of the next meeting at which accounts are laid before the meeting: 14 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors: SPECIAL RESOLUTION 15.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution: That the Company be and is hereby unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of ordinary shares of 20p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 7,278,854: ii the maximum price that may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased and ii the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003: iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 20p: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the AGM to be held in 2014 and 31st December 2014 unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and v t he Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to such contract.
by order of the board N Tang Company Secretary 23rd August 2013 Registered office: New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire GL12 8JR Registered in England and Wales under number: 1106260 Renishaw plc 106 Annual report and accounts 2013 Shareholder Information NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED NOTES 1.
A m ember is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of the members rights to attend and to speak and vote at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the meeting for the members vote to be counted.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
If a member wishes to appoint more than one proxy and therefore requires additional proxy forms, the member should contact Equiniti Limited on 0871 384 2169.
Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Linesare open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Notice of meeting.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex bN99 6DA or the proxy appointment must be lodged using the CREST Proxy Voting Service, in accordance with note 7 below, no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
Amended instructions must also be received by the Companys registrars by the deadline for receipt of proxy forms.
The return of a completed proxy form or other such instrument will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 1 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 as amended and for the purposes of section 360b Companies Act 2006, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting or any adjournment and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, members must be registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6pm on 15th October 2013 or for any adjourned meeting, 6pm on the day which is two days before the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using theprocedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
I n order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this Notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
TheCREST Manual can be reviewed at www.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Y ou may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of meeting or any related documents including the proxy form tocommunicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers asa member provided that, if it is appointing more than one corporate representative, it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
A ny person receiving a copy of this Notice of meeting as a person nominated by a member under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person should note the provisions in this Notice concerning the appointment of a proxy or proxies to attend the meeting in place of a member, do not apply to a Nominated Person, as only shareholders have the right to appoint aproxy.
However, a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the member by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
Shareholder Financial Overview Performance Governance information statements Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2013 107 13.
U nder section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the meeting: and ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on awebsite under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor no later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
A ny member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating tothe business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
A c opy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found in the copy of the Annual report and accounts 2013 at www.
U nder section 338 and section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than Wednesday 4th September 2013, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
A s at 22nd August 2013 being the last business day prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of72,788,543 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 22nd August 2013 are 72,788,543.
There are no other classes of shares or any shares held in treasury.
Copies of the following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours 8.00am 4.15pm, excluding weekends and public holidays : a service contracts of the executive directors: and b letters of appointment of the non-executive directors.
All documents will be available for inspection at the above locations from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the AGM, and will also be available for inspection at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes before it is held until its conclusion.
Renishaw plc 108 Annual report and accounts 2013 Shareholder Information NOTICE OF MEETING CONTINUED APPENDIX EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Resolution 1 Reports of directors and financial statements The directors must present the report of the directors and the auditors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 30th June 2013 to the shareholders at the AGM.
Resolution 2 Final dividend The directors recommend that a final dividend of 28.67p per share be paid to each shareholder on the register of members as at the close of business on the record date.
Resolutions 3 to 11 inclusive Re-election and election of directors In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election or, in the case of directors appointed by the board during the year, election, at the AGM.
Short biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 46 and 47 and full details are available on www.
It is considered that each of the non-executive directors continue to contribute to the performance of the board and demonstrate their commitment to their roles, and therefore should be re-elected or elected, as the case may be.
Resolution 12 Remuneration report Listed companies are required to prepare a directors remuneration report and put a resolution to approve the report to the shareholders at the AGM.
The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 56 and 57.
Resolution 13 Appointment of auditors The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders, to hold office until the end of the next such meeting.
KPMG Audit Plc have notified the Company that they are not seeking reappointment.
It is proposed that KPMG LLP be appointed as the Companys auditors from the conclusion of the AGM until the conclusion of the next AGM.
Resolution 14 Remuneration of auditors This resolution seeks authority for the directors to decide the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 15 Market purchase of own shares by the Company This resolution renews the previous authority granted on 18th October 2012, which expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
The resolution authorises the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 7,278,854 representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company and sets minimum and maximum prices.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Companys next AGM.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter under review, taking into account market conditions, the cash reserves of the Company, the Companys share price, appropriate gearing levels, other investment opportunities and the overall financial position of the Company.
The authority will be exercised only if to do so would be likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Any purchases of ordinary shares would most likely be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or, if earlier, 18 months from the date of this resolution.
Design and production by Radley Yeldar | ry.
com Printed by Park Lane Press on FSC certified, 100% post-consumer content paper, using fully sustainable, vegetable oil-based inks, power from 100% renewable resources and waterless printing technology.
Print production systems registered to ISO 14001:2004, ISO 9001:2008, EMAS standards and Park Lane Press offset all site emissions through the DEFRA and DECC recognised charity PURE.
Annual report and accounts 2013 Renishaw plc New Mills, Wotton-under-Edge, Gloucestershire GL12 8JR United Kingdom T 44 0 1453 524524 F 44 0 1453 524401 E uk@renishaw.
com For more information visit: www.
