8 Strategic Report Our Operating Model Our Operating Model bringing focus to how we operate Our business Our business organisation now comprises strong regional We will manage the business for profitable growth by grouping organisation businesses grouped into five distinct regions: Europe, North our categories and geographies into a growth potential and America, Pacific, Asia and UK & Rest of World.
Our core profit contribution matrix and by utilising six operational levers 60 competencies are our colleagues as experts, our category to address growth challenges.
countries leadership, and our lean multi-business model.
Strong regional businesses Our business organisation comprises five geographic regions run by experienced regional management teams.
They are close to their local markets but work to common frameworks and a single agenda, called One RI.
Each region comprises multiple service lines delivered with common operations and single management teams.
Core competencies Right people Our colleagues as experts Europe North America Asia Paci c UK & Rest of World Our people are our assets and we strive to build motivated and engaged teams across the organisation.
We train them to be Experts in What they Do and to have a relentless focus Managing for on customers and service.
pro table growth Right things Category leadership Pro table growth The group utilises six operational levers to address its growth challenges: Targeting our o er Sales e ectiveness Retention and growth We are focused on our three core categories of pest control, hygiene and workwear.
Delivering our Promise they comprise 66% of group revenue, have generated 81% of total growth over the last three 2.
Engaging our Customers years and 85% of group profits.
We target our offer appropriately, We deliver sales effectiveness We will drive retention and growth ensuring we are providing the right in both building the pipeline through delivery of outstanding customer Right way Lean, multi-business operations offer to the right customers and also and sales brilliance.
service, account management and that we are masters of our markets, service differentiation.
adapting our thinking to local needs.
The Experts in Pest Control Di erential strategies Hub The strategic review we have undertaken in 2013 has involved a detailed analysis across the Company in order to group our categories Emerging Growth and geographies into a growth potential and profit contribution matrix.
The Experts in Property Care The Experts in Specialist Hygiene Allocation to each quadrant will drive implementation and execution Our move to an integrated country operating model enables our service lines to be combined Manage Protect of the right strategy for each business.
It will also facilitate efficient & Enhance for Value within single country businesses run by one local management team.
Operations, administrative allocation of capital to where it is most needed and where it will and back ofce functions are integrated, enabled and underpinned by technology.
profit Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
indd 8 01 04 2014 16:19 Growth Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Strategic Report Our Operating Model 9 Our business organisation 60 countries Strong regional businesses Our business organisation comprises five geographic regions run by experienced regional management teams.
profit Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2013 Rentokil 2013 BusinessReview ID6 p01-28.
