Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 41 Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts Significant accounting policies Future accounting policies The Restaurant Group plc the Company is a company At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, incorporated and registered in Scotland.
The consolidated the following new and revised Standards and Interpretations financial statements of the Company for the year ended have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not 29 December 2013 comprise the Company and its had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the financial statements.
Groups interest in its associate.
IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities a Statement of compliance Annual Improvements The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in to IFRSs 2009 2011 Cycle accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial IFRSs and its interpretations adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the Statements European Union.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests b Going concern basis in Other Entities The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquires, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits has adequate resources to continue in operational existence IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements for the foreseeable future at the time of approving the financial IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates statements.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the and Joint Ventures Group and further comments on going concern are set out in the report of the Directors.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations which have not been c Basis of preparation applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet The accounting year runs to a Sunday within seven days of effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by 31 December each year which will be a 52 or 53 week period.
the EU : The financial statements are presented in sterling, rounded IFRS 9 Financial Instruments to the nearest thousand.
They have been prepared on the IAS 36 amendments Recoverable Amount Disclosures historical cost basis except derivative financial instruments for Non-Financial Assets which are held at their fair value.
Non-current assets and IAS 39 amendments Novation of Derivatives and assets held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount Continuation of Hedge Accounting and fair value less costs to sell.
IFRIC 21 Levies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the and assumptions that affect the application of policies and Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a material reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and impact on the financial statements of the Group in future expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are periods, except as that IFRS 9 will impact both the based on historical experience and various other factors measurement and disclosures of financial instruments.
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgments Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may a detailed review has been completed.
d Basis of consolidation The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed i Subsidiaries on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity revision and future periods if the revision affects both current so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing and future periods.
control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account, regardless of managements intention to exercise that option or warrant.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
42 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued ii Associates g Property, plant and equipment Associates are those entities in which the Group has Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less significant influence, but not control, over the financial and accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements see accounting policy l. include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted basis, from Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have the date that significant influence commences until the date different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items that significant influence ceases.
When the Groups share of property, plant and equipment.
of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups carrying amount would be reduced to nil and recognition Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations The owner-occupied properties excluding land element or made payments on behalf of an associate.
acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of iii Transactions eliminated on consolidation the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less Intragroup balances and any gains and losses or income and accumulated depreciation see below and impairment losses expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated see accounting policy l. Lease payments are accounted for in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised as described in accounting policy s. gains arising from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Unrealised Subsequent costs losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, The Group recognises in the carrying amount of an item of but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
property, plant and equipment the cost of replacing part of such an item when that cost is incurred if it is probable that e Foreign currency the future economic benefits embodied with the item will Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the date reliably.
All other costs are recognised in the income of the balance sheet.
Transactions in foreign currencies are statement as an expense as incurred.
translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
The profit and loss accounts for overseas Depreciation operations are translated at the average rate of exchange for Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a the periods covered by the accounts.
Exchange differences straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part that relate to the net equity investment in overseas activities of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated are taken directly to reserves.
useful lives are as follows: Freehold land Indefinite f Derivative financial instruments Freehold buildings 50 years The Group uses derivative financial instruments, where Long and short leasehold property Term of lease or appropriate, to hedge its exposure to interest rate risks 50 years, whichever arising from operational, financing and investment activities.
is lower In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not Fixtures and equipment 3-10 years hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading Motor vehicles 4 years purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for Computer equipment 3-5 years hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
h Intangible assets Goodwill Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially All business combinations are accounted for by applying at cost.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial the acquisition method.
Goodwill represents amounts arising instruments are stated at fair value.
The gain or loss on on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since the income statement.
However, where derivatives qualify for 1 January 2004, goodwill represents the difference between hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss the cost of the acquisition and the fair value of the net depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group identifiable assets acquired.
does not currently hold any derivative financial instruments.
The classification and accounting treatment of business The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount combinations that occurred prior to 1 January 2004 has not that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap been reconsidered in preparing the Groups opening IFRS at the balance sheet date, taking into account current balance sheet at 1 January 2004. interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2013 43 Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment m Share-based payment transactions losses.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units and The share option programme allows Group employees to is formally tested annually for impairment see accounting acquire shares of the Company and all options are equitypolicy l. In respect of associates, the carrying amount of settled.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally Any excess of fair value of net assets over consideration on entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is acquisition are recognised directly in the income statement.
measured using a Stochastic model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
i Trade and other receivables The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less the actual number of share options that vest except where impairment losses see accounting policy l. forfeiture is only due to market based conditions not achieving the threshold for vesting.
j Stock Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
n Provisions Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a completion and selling expenses.
result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
k Cash and cash equivalents If the effect is material, provisions are determined by Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and that reflects current market assessments of the time value form an integral part of the Groups cash management are of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the liability.
the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
o Deferred and current tax l Impairment Corporation tax payable is provided on the taxable profit at The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all annually to determine whether there is any indication temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at of impairment.
the balance sheet date, except to the extent that the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill.
Temporary For property, plant and equipment, the carrying value of each differences are differences between the carrying amount of cash generating unit CGU is compared to its estimated the Groups assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Value in use calculations are based on discounted cash flows over the remaining useful life of the CGU between Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected 2 and 50 years.
The discount rate used is the rate believed to apply in the periods in which the temporary differences by the Board to reflect the risks associated with each CGU.
are expected to reverse based on tax rates and laws that Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
are enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
For goodwill and assets that have an indefinite useful life, the recoverable amount is estimated annually.
An impairment p Pensions loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset The Group makes contributions for eligible workers into or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
defined contribution pension plans and these contributions Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement are charged to the income statement as they become and are not subsequently reversed.
All goodwill stated on payable.
The Group does not operate any defined the balance sheet relates to the acquisition of Blubeckers benefit plans.
Limited and Brunning and Price Limited and is included in the impairment analysis of the Pub restaurant business q Onerous contracts conducted annually.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
44 Annual Report 2013 The Restaurant Group plc Accounting policies for the consolidated accounts continued r Revenue Critical accounting judgements and key sources Revenue represents amounts received and receivable for of estimation and uncertainty services and goods provided excluding value added tax In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and voluntary gratuities left by customers for the benefit as described above, management has made a number of of employees and is recognised at the point of sale.
Where judgements and estimations of which the following are the the Group operates a Concession unit under a franchise most significant: agreement, it acts as principal in this trading arrangement.
All revenue from franchise arrangements is recognised by a Impairment of carrying value of associate the Group at the point of sale and licencing fees are recorded The investment in BH Restaurants Limited formerly Living in Cost of Sales as the goods are sold.
The Group does not Ventures Restaurants Group Limited and the loan note of act as a franchisor in any trading relationship.
10.4m receivable from a subsidiary of that company were fully provided against in the years ended 30 December 2007 s Expenses and 31 December 2006.
Following a review of the trading i Operating lease payments performance of the company, the Directors have concluded Payments made under operating leases are recognised in that this treatment is appropriate and no adjustment has been the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term made in either the current or the previous year.
Further details of the lease.
Incentives to enter into an operating lease are are provided in note 11. also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term as a reduction in rental expense.
b Impairment of goodwill and property, plant and equipment ii Finance lease payments The Group formally determines whether property, plant Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the and equipment are impaired by considering indicators of finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
This requires the Group to determine The finance charge is allocated to each period during the the lowest level of assets which generate largely independent lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of cash flows cash generating units or CGU and to estimate interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
the value in use of these assets or CGUs: and compare these to their carrying value.
Cash generating units are deemed iii Pre-opening expenses to be individual units or a cluster of units depending on the Property rentals and related costs incurred up to the nature of the trading environment in which they operate.
date of opening of a new restaurant are written off to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
The Group also formally prepares an impairment review Promotional and training costs are written off to the income on an annual basis to assess whether the goodwill arising statement in the period in which they are incurred.
on the acquisition of the pub business is impaired.
iv Borrowing costs Calculating the value in use requires the Group to make an Debt is stated net of borrowing costs which are spread estimate of the future cash flows of each CGU and to choose over the term of the loan.
All other borrowing costs are a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present recognised in the income statement in the period in which value of those cash flows.
The discount rate used in the year they are incurred.
ended 29 December 2013 for all CGUs was based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 9.9% year ended t Dividend policy 30 December 2012: 8.6% as the Directors believe there are In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet broadly equal risks associated with each CGU.
Date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability at that balance sheet date, No impairment is required in the year ended and are recognised in the financial statements when they 29 December 2013. have received approval by shareholders.
