92 Rexam Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 pRinCipAl ACCOuntinG pOliCies basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS andIFRS Interpretation Committee interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share based payment and retirement benefit obligations.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, comparative amounts have been restated to reflect the discontinuance of Healthcare.
See note 10 for further information.
The following accounting standards and amendments to accounting standards have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2013 and have an impact on the Group.
See note 26 v for further information.
ii The amendment to IAS1 Financial Statement Presentation, whereby other comprehensive income loss is now grouped on the basis of whether such income loss is potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss.
iii The amendment to IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures on financial asset and financial liability offsetting.
See note 25 iii for further information.
This standard provides a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRS.
The implementation of this standard did not lead to a significant change in the fair value measurement applied by the Group.
See note 25 i for the additional fair value hierarchy disclosures provided.
The following accounting standards are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and have not yet been adopted by the Group.
This standard builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Group has yet to assess the full impact of this standard.
The standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group has yet to assess the full impact of this accounting standard.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRS Interpretation Committee interpretations not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The Group meets its working capital requirements through its bank facilities.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Further information on the Groups borrowings is given in notes 23 and 24.
Key estimates and assumptions The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The key estimates and assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment in accordance with the accounting policy for goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units relating to continuing operations are determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow projections for each cash generating unit and discount rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted forspecific risks associated with particular cash generating units.
For details of impairment testing for continuing operations see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies for goodwill and impairment testing are setout below.
Retirement benefits The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
There are two principal funded defined benefit pension plans, in the UK and US, and an unfunded retiree medical plan in the US.
The costs and present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on factors such as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
The Group usesestimates based on previous experience and external actuarial advice in determining these future cash flows and the discount rate.
If the discount rates were to fall by 0.5%, the net liabilities of the plans at 31December 2013 would rise by approximately 65m 2012: 70m.
If equity values were to fall by 10%, then the plan assets at 31 December 2013 would fall by approximately 95m 2012: 100m.
If life expectancy were to increase by one year, the net liabilities of the plans at 31 December 2013 would rise by approximately 100m 2012: 105m.
The accounting policy for retirement benefit obligations is set out below and details of the assumptions used forthe two principal defined benefit pension plans and the retiree medical plan are set out in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Income taxes Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations whose ultimate taxtreatment is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes are likely to be due.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based on estimates of future taxable income and recoverability.
Where a change in circumstance occurs, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax balances in the year in which that change or outcome is known.
The accounting policy for income taxes is set out below.
