140 Rexam Annual Report 2013 notes to the Company financial statements continued 1 pRinCipAl ACCOuntinG pOliCies CONTINUED financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments used by the Company include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward aluminium commodity contracts.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Companys risk management policies.
Hedges are classified as follows: i fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
ii cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with arecognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the profit and loss account.
For cash flow hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in reserves, with any ineffective portion recognised in the profit and loss account.
When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in reserves are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in reserves are transferred to the profit and loss account in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the profit and loss account.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Borrowings are measured at amortised cost except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Up front fees paid on the establishment of loan and bond facilities are initially capitalised as transaction costs of the loan and bond and amortised in interest over the expected term of the loan and bond.
Ongoing commitment fees are expensed in interest as incurred.
Debtors are measured at amortised cost less any provision for impairment.
Debtors are discounted when the time value of money isconsidered material.
2 emplOyee COsts And numbeRs 2013 2012 m m Employee costs including directors: Wages and salaries 17 18 Social security 4 4 Retirement benefits 4 6 Share options 7 5 32 33 For details of directors remuneration see the remuneration report.
2013 2012 Number Number Average employee numbers 122 112 3 equity dividends For details of equity dividends see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
