92 Rexam Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1 pRinCipAl ACCOuntinG pOliCies basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS andIFRS Interpretation Committee interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments, share based payment and retirement benefit obligations.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, comparative amounts have been restated to reflect the discontinuance of Healthcare.
See note 10 for further information.
The following accounting standards and amendments to accounting standards have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 January 2013 and have an impact on the Group.
See note 26 v for further information.
ii The amendment to IAS1 Financial Statement Presentation, whereby other comprehensive income loss is now grouped on the basis of whether such income loss is potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss.
iii The amendment to IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures on financial asset and financial liability offsetting.
See note 25 iii for further information.
This standard provides a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRS.
The implementation of this standard did not lead to a significant change in the fair value measurement applied by the Group.
See note 25 i for the additional fair value hierarchy disclosures provided.
The following accounting standards are effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and have not yet been adopted by the Group.
This standard builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included in the consolidated financial statements.
The Group has yet to assess the full impact of this standard.
The standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group has yet to assess the full impact of this accounting standard.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRS Interpretation Committee interpretations not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The Group meets its working capital requirements through its bank facilities.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its current facilities.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Further information on the Groups borrowings is given in notes 23 and 24.
Key estimates and assumptions The preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, events or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
The key estimates and assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment in accordance with the accounting policy for goodwill.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units relating to continuing operations are determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates which include cash flow projections for each cash generating unit and discount rates based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital, adjusted forspecific risks associated with particular cash generating units.
For details of impairment testing for continuing operations see note 12 to the consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies for goodwill and impairment testing are setout below.
Retirement benefits The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
There are two principal funded defined benefit pension plans, in the UK and US, and an unfunded retiree medical plan in the US.
The costs and present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on factors such as life expectancy of the members, the salary progression of current employees, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
The Group usesestimates based on previous experience and external actuarial advice in determining these future cash flows and the discount rate.
If the discount rates were to fall by 0.5%, the net liabilities of the plans at 31December 2013 would rise by approximately 65m 2012: 70m.
If equity values were to fall by 10%, then the plan assets at 31 December 2013 would fall by approximately 95m 2012: 100m.
If life expectancy were to increase by one year, the net liabilities of the plans at 31 December 2013 would rise by approximately 100m 2012: 105m.
The accounting policy for retirement benefit obligations is set out below and details of the assumptions used forthe two principal defined benefit pension plans and the retiree medical plan are set out in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
Income taxes Judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations whose ultimate taxtreatment is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes are likely to be due.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets and liabilities based on estimates of future taxable income and recoverability.
Where a change in circumstance occurs, or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax balances in the year in which that change or outcome is known.
The accounting policy for income taxes is set out below.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 93 1 pRinCipAl ACCOuntinG pOliCies CONTINUED non GAAp measures The Group presents underlying operating profit, underlying profit before tax and underlying earnings per share information as it believes these measures provide a helpful indication of its performance and underlying trends.
The term underlying refers to the relevant measure being reported before exceptional items, the amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value changes on certain operating derivatives which are not hedge accounted and on financing derivatives.
These measures are used by the Group for internal performance analysis and as a basis for incentive compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms underlying and exceptional items are not defined terms under IFRS and may, therefore, not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or be superior to, GAAP measurements of performance.
basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise Rexam PLC and all its subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the results of its associates and joint ventures.
The financial statements of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared at the same reporting date using consistent accounting policies.
Intercompany balances and transactions, including any unrealised profits arising from intercompany transactions, are eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are entities where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies, generally accompanied by a share of more than 50% of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and are included until the date on which the Group ceases to control them.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control, whereby the strategic, financial and operating decisions relating to the venture require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control and are generally accompanied by an equal 50% share of voting rights.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its investment inthe associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf ofthe associate or joint venture.
All acquisitions are accounted for by applying the purchase method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the fairvalues, at the acquisition date, of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group.
Theidentifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree are measured initially at fair value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non controlling interests.
The excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value oftheidentifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised asgoodwill.
foreign currencies The financial statements for each of the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are prepared using their functional currency.
The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency are recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
Exceptions to this are where the monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation, designated as hedges of a net investment, or designated as cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially recognised in equity.
The presentation currency of the Group is sterling.
The balance sheets of foreign operations are translated into sterling using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the income statements are translated into sterling using the average exchange rate for the year.
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rate prevailing on the transaction date, the exchange rate on the transaction date is used.
Exchange differences on translation into sterling arising since 1 January 2004 are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On disposal of a subsidiary, any cumulative exchange differences held in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement.
On the repayment of a quasi equity loan, the proportionate share of the cumulative amount of the exchange differences on the loan recognised in other comprehensive income is not reclassified to the consolidated income statement unless the Group loses control over theentity to which the quasi equity loan related.
The principal exchange rates against sterling used in these consolidated financial statements are as follows: Average Closing Average Closing 2013 2013 2012 2012 Euro 1.18 1.20 1.23 1.23 US dollar 1.56 1.65 1.59 1.62 Revenue recognition and other income Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value of the consideration, net of rebates and trade discounts.
Revenue from the saleof goods is recognised when the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods to the buyer, whenthe amount of revenue can be measured reliably and when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow tothe Group, typically on delivery of goods.
The Group makes certain advance payments to customers and suppliers in relation to contracts which arecharged against sales in respect of customers, and operating expenses in respect of suppliers, over their useful economic lives, typically being the related contract term.
Otherincome includes licence income and project management fees for the construction of manufacturing lines and equipment onbehalfof customers.
exceptional items Items which are exceptional, being material in terms of size and or nature, are presented separately from underlying business performance in the consolidated income statement.
The principal events which may give rise to exceptional items include the restructuring and integration ofbusinesses, significant changes to retirement benefit obligations, gains or losses on the disposal of businesses, goodwill impairments, major asset impairments and disposals and significant litigation and tax claims.
94 Rexam Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 pRinCipAl ACCOuntinG pOliCies CONTINUED Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
A defined benefit pension plan typically specifies the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent upon one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The Group operates both funded defined benefit pension plans, where actuarially determined payments are made to trustee administered funds, and unfunded defined benefit pension plans, where no such payments are made.
The asset or liability recognised in the consolidated balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation less, for funded schemes, the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated, at least triennially, by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method and is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
The current service cost and plan administration expenses are recognised as an operating expense in the consolidated income statement.
Past service costs and credits are recognised immediately as an operating expense in the consolidated income statement.
The retirement benefits net interest cost is the change during the year in the net defined benefit liability due to the passage of time and is recognised as an interest expense in the consolidated income statement.
The interest rate is based on the yield on high quality corporate bonds.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they arise.
A defined contribution plan is one under which fixed contributions are paid to a third party.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised in the consolidated income statement when they are due.
Prepaidcontributions are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in futurepayments is likely.
The Group also provides post retirement healthcare benefits retiree medical to certain of its current and former employees.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually conditional on an employee remaining in service up to retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
The consolidated income statement and consolidated balance sheet accounting treatment with respect to retiree medical is similar to that for defined benefit pension plans.
These obligations are valued by independent actuaries, usually on an annual basis.
share based payment The Group operates equity and cash settled share option schemes.
For equity settled share options, the services received from employees are measured by reference to the fair value of the share options.
The fair value is calculated at grant date and recognised in the consolidated income statement, together with a corresponding increase in equity, on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based onan estimate of the number of options that will eventually vest.
Vesting conditions, which comprise service conditions and non market performance conditions, are not taken into account when estimating the fair value.
All market and non vesting conditions are included in the fair value.
For cash settled share options, the services received from employees are measured at the fair value of the liability and recognised inthe consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the vesting period.
The fair value of the liability is measured at each balance sheet date and at the date of settlement with changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated income statement.
TheRexam Employee Share Trust holds ordinary shares in Rexam PLC to satisfy future share option exercises, which are presented in the consolidated balance sheet asadeduction from equity.
interest Interest on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings held at amortised cost is recognised in the consolidated income statement using theeffective interest method.
Interest includes exchange differences arising on cash and cash equivalents and borrowings, where such exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Interest includes all fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments, and corresponding adjustments to hedged items under designated fair value hedging relationships, where theyrelate to financing activities and are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Interest relating to payments made over anextended period of development of large capital projects is added to the capital cost and amortised over the expected lives ofthoseprojects.
Non hedge accounted financing derivative financial instruments fair value changes and hedge ineffectiveness on financing derivative financial instruments are disclosed separately, within interest, in the consolidated income statement.
segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the executive leadership team, which comprises the executive directors and certain senior executives.
The executive leadership team is responsible for assessing the performance of the operating segments for the purpose of making decisions about resources to be allocated.
Operating segments are combined for external reporting purposes where they have similar economic characteristics, and the nature of products and production processes, the type and class of customers and the methods todistribute products are all similar.
Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilitiesof the acquiree at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at 31 December each year and at any time where there is any indication that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
At the date of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions on or before 31December 1997 has been deducted from equity.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the carrying amount ofgoodwill relating to the business sold except for any goodwill deducted from equity.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of subsidiaries is presented in goodwill and goodwill arising on the acquisition of associates and joint ventures is presented in investments in associates and joint ventures.
Internally generated goodwill is not recognised as an asset.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 95 1 pRinCipAl ACCOuntinG pOliCies CONTINUED Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation begins when an asset is available for use and is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate the cost of the asset over its estimated useful life as follows: Computer software acquired 2 to 3 years Computer software developed Up to 7 years Customer contracts and relationships acquired 5 to 20 years Technology and patents acquired 5 to 20 years Other development projects Up to 5 years The cost of intangible assets acquired in an acquisition is the fair value at acquisition date.
The cost of separately acquired intangible assets, including computer software, comprises the purchase price and any directly attributable costs of preparing the asset for use.
Computer software development costs that are directly associated with the implementation of major business systems are capitalised as intangible assets.
Expenditure on research is recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement as incurred.
Expenditure incurred on other development projects is capitalised as an intangible asset if it is probable that the expenditure will generate future economic benefits and can be measured reliably.
The amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets, comprising acquired customer contracts and relationships, and technology and patents, is disclosed separately within operating profit on the face of the consolidated income statement.
property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises purchase price and directly attributable costs.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
For all other property, plant and equipment, depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis to allocate cost, less residual value of the assets, over their estimated useful lives as follows: Freehold buildings Up to 50 years Leasehold buildings Shorter of 50 years or lease term Manufacturing machinery 7 to 17 years Computer hardware Up to 8 years Fixtures, fittings and vehicles 4 to 10 years Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at least at each financial year end.
impairment of assets This policy applies to all assets except inventories, insurance backed assets, deferred tax assets, financial assets and assets classified as held for sale.
Ateach balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes an estimate of recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount the asset is written down to its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value inuseand is determined for an individual asset see also accounting policy for assets and liabilities classified as held for sale and discontinued operations below.
If the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs is determined.
Discount rates reflecting the asset specific risks and the time value of money are used for the value in use calculation.
When an asset is written down toitsrecoverable amount the impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Impairment losses incurred in a cash generating unit or group of cash generating units are applied against the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated tothe units.
Where no goodwill exists, the impairment losses reduce the other non current assets of the cash generating units.
Should circumstances change which result in a reversal of a previous impairment, the value of the asset is increased and the reversal is recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year in which it occurs.
The increase in the carrying amount of the asset is limited tothe amountwhich would have been recorded had no impairment been recognised in prior years.
Impairment losses applied to goodwill arenot reversed.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale and discontinued operations Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are available for immediate sale in their present condition and a sale is highly probable within one year.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non current assets classified as held for sale are not depreciated or amortised and any write down to fair value less costs to sell is recognised as an impairment loss.
Operations are classified as discontinued when they are either disposed of or are part of a single coordinated plan to dispose, and represent a major line of business or geographical area of operation.
inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on a first in first out or weighted average cost basis.
Cost comprises directly attributable purchase and conversion costs and an allocation of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less estimated costs to completion and selling costs.
Provisions against the value of inventories are made for slow moving or obsolete inventory.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement comprise cash at bank and in hand, bank and money market deposits and other short term highly liquid investments generally with original maturities of three months or less and bank overdrafts.
Bank overdrafts are presented in borrowings within current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
96 Rexam Annual Report 2013 notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1 pRinCipAl ACCOuntinG pOliCies CONTINUED leases Leases are classified as finance leases where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Group.
Finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the liability and finance charge to produce a constant rate of interest on the finance lease balance outstanding.
Assets capitalised under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the assetand the lease term.
Leases other than finance leases are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases arerecognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Any incentives to enter intooperating leases are recognised as a reduction of rental expense over the lease term on a straight line basis.
income taxes The tax expense represents the sum of current tax, non current tax and deferred tax.
Current tax and non current tax are based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and itfurtherexcludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The current and non current tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.
Provisions are established on the basis of amount expected to be paid to tax authorities.
Deferred tax is recognised in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred tax arising from initial recognition of an asset or liability inatransaction, other than an acquisition, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, is not recognised.
Deferred tax is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable thatfuture taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the timing ofthereversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Taxisrecognised in the consolidated income statement, unless the tax relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the taxisrecognised directly in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
provisions Provisions are recognised when a present obligation exists in respect of a past event and where the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions for restructuring are recognised for direct expenditure on business reorganisations where plans are sufficiently detailed and welladvanced, and where appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken on or before the balance sheet date.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is considered to be material.
dividends Final equity dividends to the shareholders of Rexam PLC are recognised in the period they are approved by the shareholders.
Interimequity dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
financial instruments Financial instruments that are measured at fair value are disclosed in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the following fair value measurement hierarchy: i Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities level 1. ii Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices orindirectly that is, derived from prices level 2. iii Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs level 3.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
Ifallsignificant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts and forward aluminium, iron ore, energy and resin commodity contracts.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as hedges in line with the Groups risk management policies.
Hedges are classified as follows: i Fair value hedges where they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
ii Cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated witharecognised asset or liability or a forecasted transaction.
iii Net investment hedges where they hedge exposure to changes in the value of the Groups interests in the net assets of foreignoperations.
For fair value hedges, any gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and similarly recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For cash flow hedges and net investment hedges, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised in equity, with any ineffective portion recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When hedged cashflows result in the recognition of a non financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity areincluded in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the consolidated income statement.
