Governance | Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The directors are responsible for keeping adequate and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Company and enable them to ensure that its financial Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to Company financial statements on the same basis.
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under company law the directors must not approve the Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
Governance Statement that complies with that law and In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial those regulations.
statements, the directors are required to: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them integrity of the corporate and financial information included consistently: on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may prudent: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
