Shareholder information to provide shareholders of each Company with a common economic interest Organisational structure in the DLC structure.
The Rio Tinto Group consists of Rio Tinto plc, which is registered in England and Wales under company number 719885, and is listed on the London Stock In order to achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement provided Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is registered in Australia under ABN 96 for the ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution rights attached to 004 458 404, and is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
Rio Tinto is each Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto Limited share to be fixed in headquartered in London and has executive offices in Melbourne.
an Equalisation Ratio which has remained unchanged at 1:1.
The Sharing Agreement has provided for this ratio to be revised in special circumstances Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility and the underlying shares are where, for example, certain modifications are made to the share capital of registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and are listed one Company, such as rights issues, bonus issues, share splits and share on the New York Stock Exchange.
consolidations, but not to the share capital of the other.
Outside these specified circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the approval Nomenclature and financial data of shareholders under the Class Rights Action approval procedure described Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate together and are referred to in under Voting rights.
In addition, any adjustments are required to be confirmed this report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or, more simply, the Group.
These by the Groups external auditors.
collective expressions are used for convenience only, since both Companies, Consistent with the creation of the DLC structure, directors of each Company and the individual companies in which they directly or indirectly own seek to act in the best interests of Rio Tinto as a whole.
The Class Rights investments, are separate and distinct legal entities.
Action approval procedure is intended to deal with instances where there Limited, plc, Pty, Inc. Limitada, L. L. C. A. S. or SA have generally may be a conflict of interest between the shareholders of each Company.
been omitted from Group company names, except to distinguish between To ensure that the boards of both Companies are identical, resolutions to Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial data in US dollars US$ is derived appoint or remove directors must be put to shareholders of both Companies from, and should be read in conjunction with, the 2013 financial statements.
as a joint electorate as Joint Decisions as described under Voting rights.
In general, financial data in pounds sterling and Australian dollars A$ It is a requirement that a person can only be a director of one Company if that have been translated from the consolidated financial statements and have person is also a director of the other Company.
So, for example, if a person been provided solely for convenience: exceptions arise where data can be was removed as a director of Rio Tinto plc, he or she would also cease to be extracted directly from source records.
Certain key information has been a director of Rio Tinto Limited.
provided in all three currencies in the 2013 financial statements.
One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject to a wide History range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple jurisdictions.
Rio Tinto plc was incorporated on 30 March 1962 then called The Rio TintoWhere these rules differ, Rio Tinto, as a Group, aims to comply with the Zinc Corporation Limited RTZ and was formed by the merger of The Rio Tinto strictest applicable level.
Company and The Consolidated Zinc Corporation.
The Rio Tinto Company Dividend rights was incorporated in 1873 to reopen ancient copper workings in Spain.
The Consolidated Zinc Corporations origins trace back to the Australian The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and mining industry in the early twentieth century.
Operating out of Broken Hill Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that is without in New South Wales, it came to prominence with the mining of silver, lead taking into account any associated tax credits.
Dividends are determined in US and zinc deposits and later expanded into lead and zinc smelting.
dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, translated and paid in sterling and Australian dollars.
The Companies are also required to announce and pay their Rio Tinto Limited was incorporated on 17 December 1959 then called dividends and other distributions as close in time to each other as possible.
The Rio Tinto Mining Company of Australia Limited and in 1962 the Australian interests of Consolidated Zinc Corporation and the Rio Tinto Company Limited In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient distributable of the United Kingdom were merged to form Conzinc Riotinto of Australia reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised capital distribution, Limited as a limited liability company under the laws of the State of Victoria, it would be entitled to receive a top-up payment from the other Company.
In 1980, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited changed its name to The top-up payment could be made as a dividend on the DLC Dividend Share, CRA Limited.
or by way of a contractual payment.
Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA discovered important mineral If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law applicable deposits, developed major mining projects and also grew through acquisition.
to one of the Companies, then they may depart from the Equalisation Ratio.
However, should such a departure occur, then the relevant Company will put RTZ and CRA began operating in 1995 through a dual listed companies aside reserves to be held for payment on the relevant shares at a later date.
In 1997, the RTZ Corporation became Rio Tinto plc and CRA Limited became Rio Tinto Limited, together known as the Rio Tinto Group.
Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend equalisation provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
In 2007, Rio Tinto completed an agreed takeover of the Canadian aluminium producer Alcan Inc.
The DLC Dividend Shares can also be utilised to provide the Group with flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to be paid Dual listed companies structure between the two parts of the Group.
Such dividend payments are of no economic significance to the shareholders of either Company, as they will In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the dual listed have no effect on the Groups overall resources.
companies merger the DLC structure which was designed to place the shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position as if they Voting rights held shares in a single entity owning all of the assets of both Companies.
In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the shareholders of Rio Tinto Following the approval of the DLC structure, both Companies entered into a plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate on all matters which affect DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement through which each shareholders of both Companies in similar ways.
These are referred to as Joint Company agreed to ensure that the businesses of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Decisions.
Such Joint Decisions include the creation of new classes of share Limited are managed together, to ensure that the boards of directors of each capital, the appointment or removal of directors and auditors and the receiving Company are the same, and to give effect to certain arrangements designed of the annual financial statements.
All shareholder resolutions including Joint Decisions are voted on a poll.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shareholder information to provide shareholders of each Company with a common economic interest The Sharing Agreement also provides for the protection of shareholders of each distribution by the other Company on each of the shares held by its Organisational structure in the DLC structure.
Company by requiring their separate approval for decisions that do not affect shareholders, then an equalising payment between the two Companies shall The Rio Tinto Group consists of Rio Tinto plc, which is registered in England the shareholders of both Companies equally.
Matters requiring this approval be made, to the extent permitted by applicable law, such that the amount and Wales under company number 719885, and is listed on the London Stock In order to achieve this third objective, the Sharing Agreement provided procedure are referred to as Class Rights Actions and are voted on a poll.
available for distribution on each share held by shareholders of each Company Exchange, and Rio Tinto Limited, which is registered in Australia under ABN 96 for the ratio of dividend, voting and capital distribution rights attached to For example, fundamental elements of the DLC merger cannot be changed conforms to the Equalisation Ratio.
The objective is to ensure that the 004 458 404, and is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
Rio Tinto is each Rio Tinto plc share and to each Rio Tinto Limited share to be fixed in unless approved separately by shareholders of both Companies under the shareholders of both Companies have equivalent rights to the assets of the headquartered in London and has executive offices in Melbourne.
The Sharing Class Rights Action approval procedure.
combined Group on a per share basis, taking account of the Equalisation Ratio.
Agreement has provided for this ratio to be revised in special circumstances Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility and the underlying shares are where, for example, certain modifications are made to the share capital of Exceptions to these principles can arise in situations such as where legislation The Sharing Agreement does not grant any enforceable rights to the registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and are listed one Company, such as rights issues, bonus issues, share splits and share requires the separate approval of a decision by the appropriate majority of shareholders of either Company upon liquidation of a Company.
on the New York Stock Exchange.
Outside these specified shareholders in one Company, and approval of the matter by shareholders Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations circumstances, the Equalisation Ratio can only be altered with the approval of the other Company is not required.
Nomenclature and financial data The laws and regulations of the UK and Australia impose restrictions and of shareholders under the Class Rights Action approval procedure described Where a matter has been expressly categorised as either a Joint Decision Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited operate together and are referred to in obligations on persons who control interests in publicly listed companies under Voting rights.
In addition, any adjustments are required to be confirmed or a Class Rights Action, the directors do not have the power to change that this report as Rio Tinto, the Rio Tinto Group or, more simply, the Group.
These in excess of defined thresholds that, under certain circumstances, include by the Groups external auditors.
If a matter falls within both categories, it is treated as a Class collective expressions are used for convenience only, since both Companies, obligations to make a public offer for all of the outstanding issued shares Consistent with the creation of the DLC structure, directors of each Company Rights Action.
In addition, the directors can determine that matters not and the individual companies in which they directly or indirectly own of the relevant company.
The threshold applicable to Rio Tinto plc under seek to act in the best interests of Rio Tinto as a whole.
The Class Rights expressly listed in either category should be put to shareholders for their investments, are separate and distinct legal entities.
UK law and regulations is 30 per cent and to Rio Tinto Limited under Australian Action approval procedure is intended to deal with instances where there approval under either procedure.
law and regulations is 20 per cent on a standalone basis or, taking into account Limited, plc, Pty, Inc. Limitada, L. L. C. A. S. or SA have generally may be a conflict of interest between the shareholders of each Company.
only Rio Tinto plc interests, on a Joint Decision basis.
To facilitate the joint voting arrangements, each Company has entered into been omitted from Group company names, except to distinguish between To ensure that the boards of both Companies are identical, resolutions to shareholder voting agreements.
Each Company has issued a Special Voting Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial data in US dollars US$ is derived As part of the DLC merger, the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the appoint or remove directors must be put to shareholders of both Companies Share to a special purpose company held in trust by a common Trustee.
from, and should be read in conjunction with, the 2013 financial statements.
Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited were amended with the intention of extending as a joint electorate as Joint Decisions as described under Voting rights.
In general, financial data in pounds sterling and Australian dollars A$ these laws and regulations to the combined enterprise and, in particular, to Rio Tinto plc has issued its Special Voting Share RTP Special Voting Share It is a requirement that a person can only be a director of one Company if that have been translated from the consolidated financial statements and have ensure that a person cannot exercise control over one Company without having to RTL Shareholder SVC and Rio Tinto Limited has issued its Special Voting person is also a director of the other Company.
So, for example, if a person been provided solely for convenience: exceptions arise where data can be made offers to the public shareholders of both Companies.
It is consistent with Share RTL Special Voting Share to RTP Shareholder SVC.
The total number was removed as a director of Rio Tinto plc, he or she would also cease to be extracted directly from source records.
Certain key information has been the creation of the single economic enterprise, and the equal treatment of the of votes cast on Joint Decisions by the shareholders of one Company are voted a director of Rio Tinto Limited.
two sets of shareholders, that these laws and regulations should operate in at the parallel meeting of the other Company.
The role of these special purpose this way.
The Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc and the Constitution of One consequence of the DLC merger is that Rio Tinto is subject to a wide companies in achieving this is described below.
History Rio Tinto Limited impose restrictions on any person who controls, directly or range of laws, rules and regulatory review across multiple jurisdictions.
In exceptional circumstances, certain shareholders of the Companies can be Rio Tinto plc was incorporated on 30 March 1962 then called The Rio Tintoindirectly, 20 per cent or more of the votes on a Joint Decision.
If, however, such Where these rules differ, Rio Tinto, as a Group, aims to comply with the excluded from voting at the respective Companys general meetings because Zinc Corporation Limited RTZ and was formed by the merger of The Rio Tinto a person only has an interest in either Rio Tinto Limited or Rio Tinto plc, then strictest applicable level.
they have acquired shares in one Company in excess of a given threshold Company and The Consolidated Zinc Corporation.
The Rio Tinto Company the restrictions will only apply if they control, directly or indirectly, 30 per cent without making an offer for all the shares in the other Company.
If this should Dividend rights was incorporated in 1873 to reopen ancient copper workings in Spain.
or more of the votes at that Companys general meetings.
occur, the votes cast by these excluded shareholders will be disregarded.
The Consolidated Zinc Corporations origins trace back to the Australian The Sharing Agreement provides for dividends paid on Rio Tinto plc and If one of the thresholds specified above is breached then, subject to certain mining industry in the early twentieth century.
Operating out of Broken Hill Rio Tinto Limited shares to be equalised on a net cash basis, that is without Following the Companies general meetings the overall results of the voting limited exceptions and notification by the relevant Company, such persons in New South Wales, it came to prominence with the mining of silver, lead taking into account any associated tax credits.
Dividends are determined in US are announced to the stock exchanges, to the media in the UK and Australia, may not attend or vote at general meetings of the relevant Company, may not and zinc deposits and later expanded into lead and zinc smelting.
dollars and are then, except for ADR holders, translated and paid in sterling and and published on the Rio Tinto website.
receive dividends or other distributions from the relevant Company, and may Australian dollars.
The Companies are also required to announce and pay their Rio Tinto Limited was incorporated on 17 December 1959 then called be divested of their interest by the directors of the relevant Company.
These At a Rio Tinto plc shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision is considered, dividends and other distributions as close in time to each other as possible.
The Rio Tinto Mining Company of Australia Limited and in 1962 the Australian restrictions continue to apply until such persons have either made a public each Rio Tinto plc share carries one vote and the holder of its Special Voting interests of Consolidated Zinc Corporation and the Rio Tinto Company Limited In the unlikely event that one Company did not have sufficient distributable offer for all of the publicly held shares of the other Company, or have reduced Share has one vote for each vote cast by the public shareholders of Rio Tinto of the United Kingdom were merged to form Conzinc Riotinto of Australia reserves to pay the equalised dividend or the equalised capital distribution, their controlling interest below the thresholds specified, or have acquired Limited.
The holder of the Special Voting Share is required to vote strictly, Limited as a limited liability company under the laws of the State of Victoria, it would be entitled to receive a top-up payment from the other Company.
through a permitted means at least 50 per cent of the publicly held shares and only, in accordance with the votes cast by public shareholders for Australia.
In 1980, Conzinc Riotinto of Australia Limited changed its name to The top-up payment could be made as a dividend on the DLC Dividend Share, of each Company.
and against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto Limited CRA Limited.
These provisions are designed to ensure that offers for the publicly held shares Between 1962 and 1995, both RTZ and CRA discovered important mineral If the payment of an equalised dividend would contravene the law applicable of both Companies would be required to avoid the restrictions set out above, The holders of Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares do not actually hold any deposits, developed major mining projects and also grew through acquisition.
even if the interests which breach the thresholds are only held in one of the voting shares in Rio Tinto plc by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto Limited and However, should such a departure occur, then the relevant Company will put Companies.
The directors do not have the discretion to exempt a person from cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special Voting Share.
RTZ and CRA began operating in 1995 through a dual listed companies aside reserves to be held for payment on the relevant shares at a later date.
the operation of these rules.
In 1997, the RTZ Corporation became Rio Tinto plc and CRA Limited At a Rio Tinto Limited shareholders meeting at which a Joint Decision is became Rio Tinto Limited, together known as the Rio Tinto Group.
Rio Tinto shareholders have no direct rights to enforce the dividend equalisation Under the Sharing Agreement, the Companies agree to co-operate to enforce considered, each Rio Tinto Limited share carries one vote and the holder provisions of the Sharing Agreement.
the restrictions contained in their Articles of Association and Constitution.
of its Special Voting Share will have one vote for each vote cast by the public In 2007, Rio Tinto completed an agreed takeover of the Canadian aluminium shareholders of Rio Tinto plc in their parallel meeting.
The holder of the Special producer Alcan Inc.
The DLC Dividend Shares can also be utilised to provide the Group with Guarantees Voting Share is required to vote strictly, and only, in accordance with the votes flexibility for internal funds management by allowing dividends to be paid In 1995, each Company entered into a Deed Poll Guarantee in favour of cast for and against the equivalent resolution at the parallel Rio Tinto plc Dual listed companies structure between the two parts of the Group.
Such dividend payments are of no creditors of the other Company.
Pursuant to the Deed Poll Guarantees, each shareholders meeting.
economic significance to the shareholders of either Company, as they will In 1995, Rio Tinto shareholders approved the terms of the dual listed Company guaranteed the contractual obligations of the other Company and have no effect on the Groups overall resources.
The holders of Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares do not actually hold any voting companies merger the DLC structure which was designed to place the the obligations of other persons which are guaranteed by the other Company, shares in Rio Tinto Limited by virtue of their holding in Rio Tinto plc and shareholders of both Companies in substantially the same position as if they subject to certain limited exceptions.
Beneficiaries under the Deed Poll Voting rights cannot enforce the voting arrangements relating to the Special Voting Share.
held shares in a single entity owning all of the assets of both Companies.
Guarantees may make demands upon the guarantor thereunder without first In principle, the Sharing Agreement provides for the shareholders of Rio Tinto having recourse to the Company or persons whose obligations are being Following the approval of the DLC structure, both Companies entered into a plc and Rio Tinto Limited to vote as a joint electorate on all matters which affect Capital distribution rights guaranteed.
The obligations of the guarantor under each Deed Poll Guarantee DLC Merger Sharing Agreement the Sharing Agreement through which each shareholders of both Companies in similar ways.
These are referred to as Joint If either of the Companies goes into liquidation, the Sharing Agreement expire upon termination of the Sharing Agreement and under other limited Company agreed to ensure that the businesses of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Decisions.
Such Joint Decisions include the creation of new classes of share provides for a valuation to be made of the surplus assets of both Companies.
circumstances, but only in respect of obligations arising after such termination Limited are managed together, to ensure that the boards of directors of each capital, the appointment or removal of directors and auditors and the receiving If the surplus assets available for distribution by one Company on each of and, in the case of other limited circumstances, the publication and expiry of Company are the same, and to give effect to certain arrangements designed of the annual financial statements.
All shareholder resolutions including Joint the shares held by its shareholders exceed the surplus assets available for Decisions are voted on a poll.
com reportingcentre2013 Shareholder information continued due notice.
The shareholders of the Companies cannot enforce the provisions account in London which represented 7.47 per cent of Rio Tinto plc shares of the Deed Poll Guarantees.
These shares were represented by 106,501,038 Rio Tinto plc ADRs held of record by 400 ADR holders.
In addition, certain accounts of record with registered addresses other than in the US hold shares, Markets in whole or in part, beneficially for US persons.
Rio Tinto plc The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is the London Stock Exchange Rio Tinto Limited with the shares trading through the Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange SETS system.
The ASX is the principal trading market for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
Rio Tinto plc shares are also listed on NYSE Euronext Brussels and its American The ASX is a national stock exchange with an automated trading system.
depositary receipts are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
As at 17 As at 17 February 2014, there were 206,768 holders of record of Rio Tinto February 2014, there were 45,231 holders of record of Rio Tinto plcs shares.
Of these holders, 314 had registered addresses in the US, Of these holders, 396 had registered addresses in the US and held a total of representing approximately 0.043 per cent of the total number of Rio Tinto 479,526 Rio Tinto plc shares, representing 0.03 per cent of the total number Limited shares issued and outstanding as of such date.
In addition, nominee of Rio Tinto plc shares issued and outstanding as at such date.
In addition, accounts of record with registered addresses other than in the US may hold 106,501,038 Rio Tinto plc shares were registered in the name of a custodian Rio Tinto Limited shares, in whole or in part, beneficially for US persons.
Fees and charges payable by a holder of American Depositary Shares ADSs Category Depositary actions Associated fee Depositing or substituting Issuance of ADSs against the deposit of shares, including deposits US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion thereof the underlying shares and issuance in respect of: evidenced by the new ADSs delivered Share distributions, stock split, rights, merger Exchange of securities or other transactions Other events or distributions affecting the ADSs or the deposited securities Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount equal US$5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs which would have been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities Withdrawing an underlying share Acceptance of ADSs surrendered for withdrawal of deposited securities US$5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof evidenced by the ADSs surrendered Transferring, splitting or grouping Transfers, combining or grouping of depositary receipts US$2.50 per ADS receipts Other services performed by the depositary in administering the General depositary services, US$0.02 per ADS or portion thereof not more ADRs particularly those charged than once each calendar year and payable at the on an annual basis Provide information about the depositarys right, if any, to collect sole discretion of the depositary by billing holders fees and charges by offsetting them against dividends received and or deducting such charge from one or more cash deposited securities dividends or other cash distributions Expenses of the depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of holders in connection with: Expenses payable at the sole discretion of the depositary by billing holders or by deducting Compliance with foreign exchange control regulations or any law charges from one or more cash dividends or or regulation relating to foreign investment other cash distributions The depositarys or its custodians compliance with applicable law, rule or regulation Stock transfer or other taxes and other governmental charges Cable, telex, facsimile and electronic transmission delivery Expenses of the depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency Any other charge payable by the depositary or its agents 236 236 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shareholder information continued due notice.
The shareholders of the Companies cannot enforce the provisions account in London which represented 7.47 per cent of Rio Tinto plc shares American depositary receipts ADRs The shareholders who have provided such, or an equivalent, notice are: of the Deed Poll Guarantees.
These shares were represented by 106,501,038 Rio Tinto plc has a sponsored ADR facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank NA Percentage of Rio Tinto plc ADRs held of record by 400 ADR holders.
In addition, certain JPMorgan under a Deposit Agreement, dated 13 July 1988, as amended issued share accounts of record with registered addresses other than in the US hold shares, Markets Rio Tinto plc Date of notice Number of shares capital on 11 June 1990, as further amended and restated on 15 February 1999, in whole or in part, beneficially for US persons.
18 February 2005 when JPMorgan became Rio Tinto plcs depositary and on Rio Tinto plc AXA S. A.
The ADRs evidence Rio Tinto plc American Depositary Shares The principal market for Rio Tinto plc shares is the London Stock Exchange BlackRock Inc. 4 Dec 2009 127,744,871 8.38 Rio Tinto Limited ADSs, each representing one ordinary share.
The shares are registered with with the shares trading through the Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd 13 Mar 2012 182,550,329 12.7 Rio Tinto Limited shares are listed on the Australian Securities Exchange the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, are listed on the NYSE SETS system.
The Capital Group 21 Jan 2014 57,950,440 4.10 and are traded under the symbol RIO.
Companies, Inc. Fees and charges payable by a holder of ADSs depositary receipts are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
As at 17 As at 17 February 2014, there were 206,768 holders of record of Rio Tinto In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, JPMorgan may February 2014, there were 45,231 holders of record of Rio Tinto plcs shares.
Of these holders, 314 had registered addresses in the US, Rio Tinto Limited charge holders of Rio Tinto ADSs, either directly or indirectly, fees or charges Of these holders, 396 had registered addresses in the US and held a total of representing approximately 0.043 per cent of the total number of Rio Tinto a up to the amounts described in the table on the previous page.
479,526 Rio Tinto plc shares, representing 0.03 per cent of the total number Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd 4 Feb 2008 Limited shares issued and outstanding as of such date.
In addition, Fees and payments made by the depositary to the issuer a Shining Prospect Pte.
Ltd, a Singapore-based entity owned by Chinalco Aluminium accounts of record with registered addresses other than in the US may hold 106,501,038 Rio Tinto plc shares were registered in the name of a custodian Corporation of China holds 182,550,329 Rio Tinto plc shares.
Through the operation JPMorgan has agreed to reimburse certain company expenses related to the Rio Tinto Limited shares, in whole or in part, beneficially for US persons.
of the Australian Corporations Act as modified, this interest gives these entities and Rio Tinto plc ADR programme and incurred by the Group in connection with their associates voting power of 9.8 per cent in the Rio Tinto Group on a Joint Decision the programme.
The Group received US$1.05 million in respect of expenses matter, making them substantial shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited, as well as of Fees and charges payable by a holder of American Depositary Shares ADSs incurred by the Group in connection with the ADR programme for the year Rio Tinto plc.
Category Depositary actions Associated fee ended 31 December 2013.
JPMorgan did not pay any amount on the Groups As far as is known, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are not directly or Depositing or substituting Issuance of ADSs against the deposit of shares, including deposits US$5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion thereof behalf to third parties.
JPMorgan also waived certain of its standard fees and indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by any government or the underlying shares and issuance in respect of: evidenced by the new ADSs delivered expenses associated with the administration of the programme relating to natural person.
Rio Tinto is not aware of any arrangement which may result in a routine programme maintenance, reporting, distribution of cash dividends, Share distributions, stock split, rights, merger change in control.
No shareholder possesses voting rights that differ from those annual meeting services and report mailing services.
Exchange of securities or other transactions attaching to Rio Tinto plcs and Rio Tinto Limiteds securities.
Other events or distributions affecting the ADSs or the deposited Under certain circumstances, including removal of JPMorgan as depositary or As of 17 February 2014, the total amount of the Groups voting securities owned securities termination of the ADR programme by the Company, the Company is required by the directors in Rio Tinto plc was 94,081 ordinary shares of 10p each or ADRs to repay JPMorgan any amounts of administrative fees and expenses waived Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount equal US$5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof and in Rio Tinto Limited was 107,586 ordinary shares, in aggregate representing during the 12-month period prior to notice of removal or termination.
to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs which would have less than one per cent of the Groups total number of shares in issue.
been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities Share ownership Withdrawing an underlying share Acceptance of ADSs surrendered for withdrawal of deposited securities US$5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion thereof Substantial shareholders evidenced by the ADSs surrendered Under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Australian Transferring, splitting or grouping Transfers, combining or grouping of depositary receipts US$2.50 per ADS Corporations Act, any shareholder of Rio Tinto plc with voting rights of three receipts per cent or more, or any person with voting power of five per cent or more in Other services performed by the depositary in administering the General depositary services, US$0.02 per ADS or portion thereof not more Rio Tinto Limited, is required to provide the Companies with notice.
ADRs particularly those charged than once each calendar year and payable at the on an annual basis Provide information about the depositarys right, if any, to collect sole discretion of the depositary by billing holders fees and charges by offsetting them against dividends received and or deducting such charge from one or more cash Analysis of ordinary shareholders deposited securities dividends or other cash distributions Rio Tinto plc Rio Tinto Limited Expenses of the depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of holders in connection with: Expenses payable at the sole discretion of the No.
The shares are listed on the NYSE in the form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
c The total issued share capital is made up of 1,412,866,442 publicly held shares: 12,510,233 shares held in Treasury.
d Publicly held shares in Rio Tinto Limited.
com reportingcentre2013 Shareholder information continued Twenty largest registered shareholders In accordance with the ASX Listing Rules, below are the names of the 20 largest registered holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the number of shares and the percentage of issued capital each holds as at 17 February 2014: Number Percentage of Rio Tinto Limited of shares issued share capital HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 90,282,676 20.72 J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 61,272,310 14.06 National Nominees Limited 51,486,464 11.82 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 22,456,989 5.15 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd DRP 11,589,957 2.66 J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited Cash Income A C 10,701,504 2.46 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Colonial First State Inv A C 6,462,290 1.48 Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 3,651,753 0.84 AMP Life Limited 3,238,223 0.74 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A C 2,955,099 0.68 UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 2,868,748 0.66 Argo Investments Limited 2,510,739 0.58 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Agency Lending DRP A C 1,661,239 0.38 RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited PI Pooled A C 1,115,949 0.26 Navigator Australia Ltd MLC Investment Sett A C 932,896 0.21 Australian United Investment Company Limited 849,918 0.20 RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited MBA A C 629,439 0.14 UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 617,500 0.14 Custodial Services Limited Beneficiaries Holding A C 609,094 0.14 Nulis Nominees Australia Limited Navigator Mast Plan Sett A C 570,333 0.13 276,463,120 63.44 Large registered shareholders are nominees who hold securities on behalf of beneficial shareholders.
Share price information The following table shows share prices for the period indicated, the reported high and low middle market quotations, which represent an average of bid and asked prices, for Rio Tinto plcs shares on the London Stock Exchange based on the Daily Official List, the highest and lowest sale prices of the Rio Tinto plc ADRs as reported on the NYSE composite tape and the high and low closing sale prices of Rio Tinto Limited shares based upon information provided by the ASX.
There is no established trading market in the US for Rio Tinto Limiteds shares.
With effect from 30 April 2010, one ADR represents one ordinary share of 10p in Rio Tinto plc.
Prior to this date one ADR represented four ordinary shares of 10p.
To effect this change ADR holders received three additional ADRs for every one ADR held as of 22 April 2010, the ADR record date.
b None of these prices have been restated to take account of the rights issues undertaken in 2009.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shareholder information continued 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Twenty largest registered shareholders Dividends In accordance with the ASX Listing Rules, below are the names of the 20 largest registered holders of Rio Tinto Limited shares and the number of shares and the Both Companies have paid dividends on their ordinary shares every year since Rio Tinto Group US cents per share percentage of issued capital each holds as at 17 February 2014: incorporation in 1962.
The rights of Rio Tinto shareholders to receive dividends Interim 83.50 72.50 54.00 45.00 Number Percentage of are explained under the description of the Dual listed companies structure on Final 108.50 94.50 91.00 63.00 45.00 Rio Tinto Limited of shares issued share capital page 234.
Total 192.00 167.00 145.00 108.00 45.00 HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited 90,282,676 20.72 Rio Tinto plc UK pence per share Dividend policy J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited 61,272,310 14.06 Interim 54.28 46.43 33.14 28.21 The aim of Rio Tintos progressive dividend policy is to increase the US dollar National Nominees Limited 51,486,464 11.82 Final 65.82 60.34 57.33 39.14 28.84 value of ordinary dividends over time.
The rate of the total annual dividend, in Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited 22,456,989 5.15 US dollars, is determined taking into account the results for the past year and Total 120.10 106.77 90.47 67.35 28.84 BNP Paribas Noms Pty Ltd DRP 11,589,957 2.66 the outlook.
Under Rio Tintos dividend policy, the interim dividend is set at one Rio Tinto Limited Australian cents per share J. P. Morgan Nominees Australia Limited Cash Income A C 10,701,504 2.46 half of the total ordinary dividend for the previous year and the final ordinary Interim 93.00 68.51 49.81 49.27 Citicorp Nominees Pty Limited Colonial First State Inv A C 6,462,290 1.48 dividend is expected to be at least equal to the previous interim dividend.
Final 120.14 91.67 84.20 61.94 51.56 Australian Foundation Investment Company Limited 3,651,753 0.84 Total 213.14 160.18 134.01 111.21 51.56 Dividend determination AMP Life Limited 3,238,223 0.74 Rio Tinto plc US cents per ADR The majority of the Groups sales are transacted in US dollars, making this HSBC Custody Nominees Australia Limited NT-Comnwlth Super Corp A C 2,955,099 0.68 the most reliable measure of the Groups global business performance.
It is Interim 84.62 73.99 53.55 43.45 UBS Wealth Management Australia Nominees Pty Ltd 2,868,748 0.66 a Rio Tintos main reporting currency and consequently the natural currency Final 91.60 91.56 63.25 45.00 Argo Investments Limited 2,510,739 0.58 a for dividend determination.
Dividends determined in US dollars are translated Total 165.59 145.11 106.70 45.00 BNP Paribas Nominees Pty Ltd Agency Lending DRP A C 1,661,239 0.38 at exchange rates prevailing two days prior to the announcement and are a The final dividend payable to holders of ADRs for the 2013 financial year will then declared payable in sterling by Rio Tinto plc and in Australian dollars RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited PI Pooled A C 1,115,949 0.26 be announced on 3 April 2014 when the GBP:USD currency conversion rate is by Rio Tinto Limited.
On request, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc can elect to Navigator Australia Ltd MLC Investment Sett A C 932,896 0.21 determined.
The ADR dividend for 2010 is restated from the 2010 Annual report receive dividends in Australian dollars and shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and reflects the dividend after currency conversion.
Australian United Investment Company Limited 849,918 0.20 can elect to receive dividends in sterling.
These dividend amounts are Dividend reinvestment plan DRP RBC Investor Services Australia Nominees Pty Limited MBA A C 629,439 0.14 calculated by converting the declared dividend using currency exchange Rio Tinto offers a DRP to registered shareholders, which provides the UBS Nominees Pty Ltd 617,500 0.14 rates applicable five business days prior to the dividend payment date.
opportunity to use cash dividends to purchase Rio Tinto shares in the market.
Custodial Services Limited Beneficiaries Holding A C 609,094 0.14 Shareholders who wish to receive their dividends in any other currencies Due to local legislation the DRP cannot be extended to shareholders in the US, Nulis Nominees Australia Limited Navigator Mast Plan Sett A C 570,333 0.13 should contact the Companies share registrars, who also offer payment Canada and certain other countries.
276,463,120 63.44 services in other currencies, subject to a fee.
Large registered shareholders are nominees who hold securities on behalf of beneficial shareholders.
Exchange rates 2013 dividends The following tables below and on page 240 show, for the periods and dates The 2013 interim and final dividends were determined at 83.50 US cents and Share price information indicated, certain information regarding the exchange rates for the pound at 108.50 US cents per share respectively and the applicable conversion rates sterling and Australian dollar, based on the Noon Buying Rates for pounds The following table shows share prices for the period indicated, the reported high and low middle market quotations, which represent an average of bid and asked for the interim and final dividend were US$1.5384 and US$1.6484 to the pound sterling and Australian dollars expressed in US dollars per 1.00 and per prices, for Rio Tinto plcs shares on the London Stock Exchange based on the Daily Official List, the highest and lowest sale prices of the Rio Tinto plc ADRs as sterling and US$0.89785 and US$0.90315 to the Australian dollar respectively.
reported on the NYSE composite tape and the high and low closing sale prices of Rio Tinto Limited shares based upon information provided by the ASX.
There is For those Rio Tinto plc shareholders who elected to receive their interim no established trading market in the US for Rio Tinto Limiteds shares.
dividend in Australian dollars the applicable conversion rate was A$1.70816 Pounds sterling a Pence per Rio Tinto plc share US$ per Rio Tinto plc ADS A$ per Rio Tinto Limited share and for Rio Tinto Limited shareholders who elected to receive their dividend Average a in sterling the applicable conversion rate was 0.58543.
No representation Second quarter 3,556 2,772 57.25 42.32 66.79 52.90 is made that pound sterling and Australian dollar amounts have been, could have Third quarter 3,282 2,716 53.18 43.00 58.97 48.63 been or could be converted into dollars at the Noon Buying Rate on such dates or at any other dates.
com reportingcentre2013 Shareholder information continued Australian dollars Under Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, except where a director is constrained by Australian law, a director may be present at a meeting of the board while a Average a Year ended 31 December Period end rate High Low matter in which the director has a material personal interest is being considered and may vote in respect of that matter.
Jan 2014 0.89 0.89 0.90 0.89 Dec 2013 0.90 0.92 0.94 0.90 The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Companies to borrow money, to charge any property or business of the Companies or all, or Nov 2013 0.94 0.95 0.95 0.94 any, of their uncalled capital and to issue debentures or give any other security Oct 2013 0.95 0.94 0.95 0.92 for a debt, liability or obligation of the Companies or of any other person.
The Sep 2013 0.92 0.91 0.92 0.91 directors shall restrict the borrowings of Rio Tinto plc to the limitation that the Aug 2013 0.91 0.91 0.92 0.91 aggregate amount of all moneys borrowed by the Company and its subsidiaries 2013 0.90 0.98 1.05 0.90 shall not exceed an amount equal to one and one half times the Companys share capital plus aggregate reserves unless sanctioned by an ordinary 2012 1.04 1.04 1.08 0.97 resolution of the Company.
2011 1.02 1.03 1.10 0.94 2010 1.02 0.92 1.02 0.81 Directors are not required to hold any shares of either Company by way of qualification.
The Remuneration Report on pages 80 and 89 provides 2009 0.89 0.79 0.94 0.62 information on shareholding policies relating to executive and non-executive a The Noon Buying Rate on such dates differed slightly from the rates used in the directors.
Please refer to the Corporate governance section page 58 for preparation of Rio Tintos financial statements as of such date.
No representation is information on appointment of directors.
made that pound sterling and Australian dollar amounts have been, could have been or could be converted into dollars at the Noon Buying Rate on such dates or at any Rights attaching to shares other dates.
Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits available for distribution, as determined in accordance with generally accepted Material contracts accounting principles and by the relevant law.
Shareholders are entitled to Articles of Association and Constitution, and DLC Merger Sharing receive such dividends as may be declared by the directors.
The directors may Agreement also pay shareholders such interim dividends as appear to them to be justified As explained on pages 234 to 235, under the terms of the DLC structure the by the financial position of the Group.
shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered into certain Any Rio Tinto plc dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the dividend contractual arrangements which are designed to place the shareholders of both was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and returned to the Companies in substantially the same position as if they held shares in a single Company.
Any Rio Tinto Limited dividend unclaimed may be invested or entity which owned all of the assets of both Companies.
Please refer to the otherwise used by the board for the benefit of the Company until claimed or section on Guarantees on page 235 for further information.
Generally, and as far otherwise disposed of according to Australian law.
as is permitted by the UK Companies Act and the Australian Corporations Act and ASX Listing Rules, this principle is reflected in the Articles of Association of Voting rights Rio Tinto plc and in the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
The summaries below Voting at any general meeting of shareholders on a resolution on which the include descriptions of material rights of the shareholders of both Rio Tinto plc holder of the Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be decided by a poll, and Rio Tinto Limited.
and any other resolution shall be decided by a show of hands unless a poll has been duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present Objects in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and is entitled to At the 2009 annual general meetings, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and vote has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
The holder of the Rio Tinto Limited approved amendments to the constitutional documents Special Voting Share is not entitled to vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, every whereby the object clauses were removed to allow the Companies to have shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised the widest possible scope of activities.
representative and is entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share for Directors which he or she is the holder and, in the case of Joint Decisions, the holder of Under Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association, a director may not vote in respect the Special Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the shareholders of any proposal in which he, or any other person connected with him, has at the parallel meeting of the other Companys shareholders.
any material interest, other than by virtue of his interests in shares or A poll may be demanded by any of the following: debentures or other securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company, except where resolutions: the chairman of the meeting: indemnify him or a third party in respect of obligations incurred by the at least five shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: director on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the Company, or in respect any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not less than of obligations of the Company, for which the director has assumed one tenth Rio Tinto plc or one 20th Rio Tinto Limited of the total voting responsibility under an indemnity, security or guarantee: rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: relate to an offer of securities in which he may be interested as a holder any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote of securities or as an underwriter: at the meeting on which there have been paid-up sums in the aggregate concern another body corporate in which the director is beneficially equal to not less than one tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares interested in less than one per cent of the issued shares of any class of conferring that right Rio Tinto plc : or shares of such a body corporate: the holder of the Special Voting Share.
relate to an employee benefit in which the director will share equally with A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to demand a poll, other employees: and or to join others in demanding one.
relate to liability insurance that the Company is empowered to purchase for The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc general meeting is three members the benefit of directors of the Company in respect of actions undertaken as present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and directors or officers of the Company.
entitled to vote, and for a Rio Tinto Limited general meeting is two members present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shareholder information continued Australian dollars Under Rio Tinto Limiteds Constitution, except where a director is constrained Matters are transacted at general meetings by the proposing and passing Rio Tinto Limited by Australian law, a director may be present at a meeting of the board while a of resolutions: Average Under current Australian legislation, no permission is required for the a Year ended 31 December Period end rate High Low matter in which the director has a material personal interest is being considered movement of funds into or out of Australia, except that there is a prohibition ordinary resolutions, which require the affirmative vote of a majority of and may vote in respect of that matter.
Jan 2014 0.89 0.89 0.90 0.89 on, or in some cases the specific prior approval of the Department of Foreign the votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum, Affairs and Trade or Minister for Foreign Affairs must be obtained for, certain Dec 2013 0.90 0.92 0.94 0.90 The directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Companies to for example the election of directors: and payments or other dealings connected with parties identified with terrorism, borrow money, to charge any property or business of the Companies or all, or Nov 2013 0.94 0.95 0.95 0.94 special resolutions, which require the affirmative vote of not less than or to whom United Nations or autonomous Australian sanctions apply.
any, of their uncalled capital and to issue debentures or give any other security Oct 2013 0.95 0.94 0.95 0.92 three-fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum, for a debt, liability or obligation of the Companies or of any other person.
The Rio Tinto Limited may be required to deduct withholding tax from foreign for example amending the Articles of Association of Rio Tinto plc or the Sep 2013 0.92 0.91 0.92 0.91 directors shall restrict the borrowings of Rio Tinto plc to the limitation that the remittances of dividends, to the extent that they are unfranked, and from Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
Aug 2013 0.91 0.91 0.92 0.91 aggregate amount of all moneys borrowed by the Company and its subsidiaries payments of interest.
The DLC Merger Sharing Agreement further classifies resolutions as 2013 0.90 0.98 1.05 0.90 shall not exceed an amount equal to one and one half times the Companys Acquisitions of interests in shares, voting power or certain other equity Joint Decisions and Class Rights Actions as explained under Voting rights share capital plus aggregate reserves unless sanctioned by an ordinary 2012 1.04 1.04 1.08 0.97 instruments in Australian companies by foreign interests are subject to on pages 234 and 235. resolution of the Company.
2011 1.02 1.03 1.10 0.94 review and approval by the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of Australia Annual general meetings must be convened with 21 days written notice 2010 1.02 0.92 1.02 0.81 Directors are not required to hold any shares of either Company by way of under the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 the Takeovers Act.
for Rio Tinto plc and with 28 days notice for Rio Tinto Limited.
The Remuneration Report on pages 80 and 89 provides 2009 0.89 0.79 0.94 0.62 The Takeovers Act applies to acquisitions of 15 per cent or more, by several of Rio Tinto plc must be convened with 21 days written notice for the passing information on shareholding policies relating to executive and non-executive foreign persons and any associates of 40 per cent or more of the actual or a The Noon Buying Rate on such dates differed slightly from the rates used in the of a special resolution and with 14 days notice for any other resolution, directors.
Please refer to the Corporate governance section page 58 for potential shares of, or voting power in, an Australian company, and to other preparation of Rio Tintos financial statements as of such date.
No representation is depending on the nature of the business to be transacted.
All meetings of information on appointment of directors.
made that pound sterling and Australian dollar amounts have been, could have been transaction that results in such persons controlling such interests.
The Rio Tinto Limited require 28 days notice.
In calculating the period of notice or could be converted into dollars at the Noon Buying Rate on such dates or at any Takeovers Act also applies to direct investments by foreign government Rights attaching to shares other dates.
the days of delivery or receipt of the notice and the date of the meeting are investors, including acquisition of interests of ten per cent or more.
Persons Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits not included.
Among other things, the notice must specify the nature of the who are proposing such acquisitions or transactions are required to notify available for distribution, as determined in accordance with generally accepted Material contracts business to be transacted.
the Treasurer of their intention.
The Treasurer has the power to order accounting principles and by the relevant law.
Shareholders are entitled to Articles of Association and Constitution, and DLC Merger Sharing divestment in cases where such acquisitions or transactions have already Variation of rights receive such dividends as may be declared by the directors.
The directors may Agreement occurred.
The Takeovers Act does not affect the rights of owners whose If, at any time, the share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the also pay shareholders such interim dividends as appear to them to be justified As explained on pages 234 to 235, under the terms of the DLC structure the interests are held in compliance with the legislation.
rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the provisions of the by the financial position of the Group.
shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and of Rio Tinto Limited entered into certain relevant legislation, with the consent in writing of holders of three-fourths in Limitations on voting and shareholding Any Rio Tinto plc dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the dividend contractual arrangements which are designed to place the shareholders of both value of the shares of that class or upon the adoption of an extraordinary was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and returned to the Except for the provisions of the Takeovers Act 1975 there are no limitations Companies in substantially the same position as if they held shares in a single resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that Company.
Any Rio Tinto Limited dividend unclaimed may be invested or imposed by law, Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association or Rio Tinto Limiteds entity which owned all of the assets of both Companies.
Please refer to the class.
At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the Articles of otherwise used by the board for the benefit of the Company until claimed or Constitution, on the rights of non-residents or foreign persons to hold or section on Guarantees on page 235 for further information.
Generally, and as far Association and Constitution relating to proceedings at a general meeting otherwise disposed of according to Australian law.
vote the Groups ordinary shares or ADSs that would not apply generally as is permitted by the UK Companies Act and the Australian Corporations Act apply, except that the quorum for Rio Tinto plc should be two or more persons to all shareholders.
and ASX Listing Rules, this principle is reflected in the Articles of Association of who hold or represent by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of Voting rights Rio Tinto plc and in the Constitution of Rio Tinto Limited.
The summaries below the issued shares of the class.
Voting at any general meeting of shareholders on a resolution on which the Taxation include descriptions of material rights of the shareholders of both Rio Tinto plc holder of the Special Voting Share is entitled to vote shall be decided by a poll, Rights in a winding-up and Rio Tinto Limited.
The following information is provided to meet the reporting obligations of the and any other resolution shall be decided by a show of hands unless a poll has Except as the shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, upon Annual report on Form 20-F.
This is not tax advice and you should not rely on been duly demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present Objects a winding-up, the balance of assets available for distribution: it as such.
Rio Tinto accepts no liability for any such reliance.
in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and is entitled to At the 2009 annual general meetings, shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential creditors, vote has one vote regardless of the number of shares held.
The holder of the Rio Tinto Limited approved amendments to the constitutional documents UK resident individuals shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal creditors: and Special Voting Share is not entitled to vote on a show of hands.
On a poll, every whereby the object clauses were removed to allow the Companies to have Taxation of dividends shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised subject to any special rights attaching to any class of shares the widest possible scope of activities.
Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the dividend.
Individuals representative and is entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share for who are liable to income tax at the basic rate will have no further tax to pay.
is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the Directors which he or she is the holder and, in the case of Joint Decisions, the holder of Higher rate tax payers are liable to tax on UK dividends at 32.5 per cent, amounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
This distribution is generally Under Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association, a director may not vote in respect the Special Voting Share has one vote for each vote cast by the shareholders which after taking account of the tax credit produces an effective tax liability to be made in cash.
A liquidator may, however, upon the adoption of a special of any proposal in which he, or any other person connected with him, has at the parallel meeting of the other Companys shareholders.
of 25 per cent of the dividend received.
Additional rate tax payers are liable resolution of the shareholders, divide among the shareholders the whole or any material interest, other than by virtue of his interests in shares or to tax on UK dividends at 42.5 per cent until 5 April 2013 and 37.5 per cent A poll may be demanded by any of the following: any part of the assets in kind.
debentures or other securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company, thereafter, which after taking account of the tax credit produces an effective except where resolutions: the chairman of the meeting: The DLC Merger Sharing Agreement further sets out the rights of ordinary tax liability of 36.1 per cent of any dividend received up to 5 April 2013 and shareholders in a liquidation as explained on page 235. indemnify him or a third party in respect of obligations incurred by the at least five shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: 30.5 per cent thereafter.
director on behalf of, or for the benefit of, the Company, or in respect any shareholder or shareholders representing in the aggregate not less than Facility agreement Dividend reinvestment plan DRP of obligations of the Company, for which the director has assumed one tenth Rio Tinto plc or one 20th Rio Tinto Limited of the total voting Details of the Groups US$7.5 billion multi-currency committed revolving The taxation effect of participation in the DRP will depend on individual responsibility under an indemnity, security or guarantee: rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the resolution: credit facilities are set out in note 30 to the 2013 financial statements.
Shareholders will generally be liable to tax on dividends relate to an offer of securities in which he may be interested as a holder any shareholder or shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote reinvested in the DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash of securities or as an underwriter: at the meeting on which there have been paid-up sums in the aggregate Exchange controls and foreign investment and arranged the investment.
The dividend should, therefore, be included concern another body corporate in which the director is beneficially equal to not less than one tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares in the annual tax return.
Rio Tinto plc interested in less than one per cent of the issued shares of any class of conferring that right Rio Tinto plc : or There are no UK foreign exchange controls or other UK restrictions on the The shares acquired should be added to shareholdings at the date and at the shares of such a body corporate: the holder of the Special Voting Share.
import or export of capital or on the payment of dividends to non-resident net cost shown on the share purchase advice.
The actual cost of the shares for relate to an employee benefit in which the director will share equally with holders of Rio Tinto plc shares or that materially affect the conduct of Rio Tinto Rio Tinto plc shareholders, including the stamp duty stamp duty reserve tax A proxy form will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to demand a poll, other employees: and plcs operations.
It should be noted, however, that various sanctions, laws, and brokers commission, will form the base cost for capital gains tax purposes.
or to join others in demanding one.
relate to liability insurance that the Company is empowered to purchase for regulations or conventions may restrict the import or export of capital by, or the Capital gains tax The necessary quorum for a Rio Tinto plc general meeting is three members the benefit of directors of the Company in respect of actions undertaken as payment of dividends to, non-resident holders of Rio Tinto plc shares.
There are Shareholders who have any queries on capital gains tax issues are advised present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative and directors or officers of the Company.
no restrictions under Rio Tinto plcs Articles of Association or under UK law that to consult their financial adviser.
entitled to vote, and for a Rio Tinto Limited general meeting is two members limit the right of non-resident owners to hold or vote Rio Tinto plc shares.
present in person or by proxy or other duly authorised representative.
com reportingcentre2013 Shareholder information continued Details of relevant events since 31 March 1982 and adjusted values for US residents Rio Tinto plc securities as at that date are available on the Groups website.
The following is a summary of the principal UK tax, Australian tax and US Federal income tax consequences of the ownership of Rio Tinto plc Australian resident individuals shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited ADSs, Rio Tinto plc shares and Rio Tinto Limited shares, the Groups ADSs Taxation of dividends and shares, by a US holder as defined below.
It is not intended to be a The basis of the Australian dividend imputation system is that when Australian comprehensive description of all the tax considerations that are relevant resident shareholders receive dividends from Rio Tinto Limited they may be to all classes of taxpayer.
Future changes in legislation may affect the tax entitled to a credit for the Australian tax paid by the Group in respect of that consequences of the ownership of the Groups ADSs and shares.
income, depending on the tax status of the shareholder.
It is based in part on representations by the Groups depositary bank as The application of the system results in the Australian tax paid by the Group depositary for the ADRs evidencing the ADSs and assumes that each obligation being allocated to shareholders by way of franking credits attaching to the in the deposit agreements will be performed in accordance with its terms.
Such dividends are known as franked dividends.
You are a US holder if you are a beneficial owner of the Groups ADSs and A dividend may be partly or fully franked.
The current Rio Tinto Limited shares and you are: a citizen or resident of the US: a domestic corporation: dividend is fully franked and the franking credits attached to the dividend an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax regardless of its are shown in the distribution statement provided to shareholders.
source: or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts The extent to which a company can frank a dividend depends on the credit administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all balance in its franking account.
Credits to this account can arise in a number substantial decisions of the trust.
of ways, including when a company pays company tax or receives a franked This section applies to US holders only if shares or ADSs are held as capital dividend from another company.
The dividend is required to be included in a assets for tax purposes.
This section does not apply to shareholders who are resident individual shareholders assessable income.
In addition, an amount members of a special class of holders subject to special rules, including a equal to the franking credit attached to the franked dividend is also included dealer in securities, a trader in securities who elects to use a mark-to-market in the assessable income of the resident individual, who may then be entitled method of accounting for securities holdings, a tax exempt organisation, to a rebate of tax equal to the franking credit amount included in their income.
a life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum tax, a person Should the franking credits exceed the tax due, the excess is refunded to the that actually or constructively owns ten per cent or more of Rio Tintos voting resident individual.
stock, a person that holds shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging The effect of the dividend imputation system on non-resident shareholders or conversion transaction, or a person whose functional currency is not the is that, to the extent that the dividend is franked, no Australian tax will be US dollar.
payable and there is an exemption from dividend withholding tax.
This section is based on the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended A withholding tax is normally levied at the rate of 15 per cent when unfranked the Code, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published dividends are paid to non-resident shareholders residing in a country with rulings and court decisions, and on the convention between the US and UK, which Australia has a taxation treaty.
Most Western countries have a taxation and the convention between the US and Australia which may affect the tax treaty with Australia.
A rate of 30 per cent applies to countries where there consequences of the ownership of the Groups ADSs and shares.
These laws is no taxation treaty.
and conventions are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
Since 1988, all dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited have been fully franked.
For the purposes of the Conventions and of the Code, US holders of ADSs It is the Groups policy to pay fully franked dividends whenever possible.
are treated as the owners of the underlying shares.
The boards expect Rio Tinto Limited to be able to pay fully franked dividends The summary describes the treatment applicable under the conventions in for the foreseeable future.
force at the date of this report.
Dividend reinvestment plan Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends reinvested in the UK taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash and arranged the Taxation of dividends investment.
The dividend should therefore be included in the annual tax return US holders are not liable to UK withholding tax on dividends paid by Rio Tinto as assessable income.
Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the net dividend, or ten per cent of the net dividend plus the tax credit.
The tax credit is not repayable The shares acquired should be added to the shareholding at the date of to US holders.
acquisition at the actual cost of the shares, which is the amount of the dividend applied by the shareholder to acquire shares and any incidental Capital gains costs associated with the acquisition will form part of the cost base or A US holder will not normally be liable to UK tax on capital gains realised on reduced cost base of the shares for capital gains tax purposes.
the disposition of Rio Tinto plc ADSs or shares unless the holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a permanent establishment in Capital gains tax the UK and the ADSs or shares have been used for the purposes of the trade, The Australian capital gains tax legislation is complex.
If shareholders have profession or vocation or are acquired, held or used for the purposes of such acquired shares after 19 September 1985 they may be subject to capital gains a permanent establishment.
tax on the disposal of those shares.
Inheritance tax Generally, disposal of shares held on capital account would give rise to a capital Under the UK US Estate Tax Treaty, a US holder, who is domiciled in the US gain or loss.
A capital gain arises when the proceeds on disposal are greater and is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax upon than the cost base of shares.
A capital loss arises when the proceeds on sale the holders death or on a transfer during the holders lifetime, unless the ADSs are less than the cost base or reduced cost base.
Where a capital gain arises and shares form part of the business property of a permanent establishment in on shares held for at least 12 months, individual, trust and superannuation the UK or pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK used in the performance of fund shareholders may be eligible for a capital gains tax discount.
In the exceptional case where ADSs or shares Shareholders are advised to seek the advice of an independent taxation are subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US Federal gift or estate tax, the consultant on any possible capital gains tax exposure.
UK Estate Tax Treaty generally provides for tax payments to be relieved in accordance with the priority rules set out in the Treaty.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Shareholder information continued Details of relevant events since 31 March 1982 and adjusted values for US residents Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax be eligible for the special tax rate applicable to qualified dividend income.
Rio Tinto plc securities as at that date are available on the Groups website.
Transfers of Rio Tinto plc ADSs will not be subject to UK stamp duty provided The gain or loss generally will be income or loss from sources within the US The following is a summary of the principal UK tax, Australian tax and that the transfer instrument is not executed in, and at all times remains outside, for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
Distributions in excess of current and US Federal income tax consequences of the ownership of Rio Tinto plc Australian resident individuals shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited the UK.
Electronic paperless purchases of Rio Tinto plc shares are subject to accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for US federal income tax ADSs, Rio Tinto plc shares and Rio Tinto Limited shares, the Groups ADSs Taxation of dividends stamp duty reserve tax SDRT at a rate of 0.5 per cent rounded to the nearest purposes, will be treated as a non-taxable return of capital to the extent of and shares, by a US holder as defined below.
It is not intended to be a The basis of the Australian dividend imputation system is that when Australian penny.
Purchases of Rio Tinto plc shares using a stock transfer form are your basis in the shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain.
comprehensive description of all the tax considerations that are relevant resident shareholders receive dividends from Rio Tinto Limited they may be subject to Stamp Duty at a rate of 0.5 per cent on transactions over 1,000 to all classes of taxpayer.
Future changes in legislation may affect the tax Subject to certain limitations, any Australian tax withheld in accordance entitled to a credit for the Australian tax paid by the Group in respect of that rounded up to the nearest 5.
Conversions of Rio Tinto plc shares into consequences of the ownership of the Groups ADSs and shares.
with the Australia United States Tax Treaty and paid over to Australia will be income, depending on the tax status of the shareholder.
Rio Tinto plc ADSs will be subject to additional Stamp Duty or SDRT at a rate creditable or deductible against your US federal income tax liability.
Special It is based in part on representations by the Groups depositary bank as of 1.5 per cent rounded to the nearest penny on all transfers to the depositary The application of the system results in the Australian tax paid by the Group rules apply in determining the foreign tax credit limitation with respect to depositary for the ADRs evidencing the ADSs and assumes that each obligation or its nominee.
being allocated to shareholders by way of franking credits attaching to the dividends that are subject to the maximum 20 per cent tax rate beginning in the deposit agreements will be performed in accordance with its terms.
Australian taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto Limited You are a US holder if you are a beneficial owner of the Groups ADSs and A dividend may be partly or fully franked.
The current Rio Tinto Limited Taxation of dividends For foreign tax credit purposes, dividends will generally be income from sources shares and you are: a citizen or resident of the US: a domestic corporation: dividend is fully franked and the franking credits attached to the dividend US holders are not normally liable to Australian withholding tax on dividends outside the US and will, depending on your circumstances, generally be either an estate whose income is subject to US federal income tax regardless of its are shown in the distribution statement provided to shareholders.
paid by Rio Tinto Limited because such dividends are normally fully franked passive or general income which, in either case, is treated separately from source: or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts The extent to which a company can frank a dividend depends on the credit under the Australian dividend imputation system, meaning that they are paid other types of income for purposes of computing the foreign tax credit administration and one or more US persons are authorised to control all balance in its franking account.
Credits to this account can arise in a number out of income that has borne Australian income tax.
Any unfranked dividends allowable to you.
substantial decisions of the trust.
of ways, including when a company pays company tax or receives a franked would suffer Australian withholding tax which under the Australian income Taxation of capital gains This section applies to US holders only if shares or ADSs are held as capital dividend from another company.
The dividend is required to be included in a tax convention is limited to 15 per cent of the gross dividend.
Subject to the PFIC Rules discussed below, if you are a US holder and you assets for tax purposes.
In addition, an amount Capital gains sell or otherwise dispose of the Groups ADSs or shares, you will recognise members of a special class of holders subject to special rules, including a equal to the franking credit attached to the franked dividend is also included US holders are not normally subject to any Australian tax on the disposal of capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the difference dealer in securities, a trader in securities who elects to use a mark-to-market in the assessable income of the resident individual, who may then be entitled Rio Tinto Limited ADSs or shares unless they have been used in carrying on between the US dollar value of the amount that you realise and your tax basis, method of accounting for securities holdings, a tax exempt organisation, to a rebate of tax equal to the franking credit amount included in their income.
a trade or business wholly or partly through a permanent establishment in determined in US dollars, in your shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a nona life insurance company, a person liable for alternative minimum tax, a person Should the franking credits exceed the tax due, the excess is refunded to the Australia, or the gain is in the nature of income sourced in Australia.
corporate US holder is generally taxed at preferential rates where the holder that actually or constructively owns ten per cent or more of Rio Tintos voting resident individual.
has a holding period greater than one year.
The gain or loss will generally stock, a person that holds shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging Gift, estate and inheritance tax The effect of the dividend imputation system on non-resident shareholders be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit or conversion transaction, or a person whose functional currency is not the Australia does not impose any gift, estate or inheritance taxes in relation is that, to the extent that the dividend is franked, no Australian tax will be limitation purposes.
to gifts of shares or upon the death of a shareholder.
This section is based on the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules Stamp duty A withholding tax is normally levied at the rate of 15 per cent when unfranked the Code, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations, published An issue or transfer of Rio Tinto Limited shares does not require the payment We believe that the Groups shares or ADSs should not be treated as stock dividends are paid to non-resident shareholders residing in a country with rulings and court decisions, and on the convention between the US and UK, of Australian stamp duty.
of PFIC for US federal income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual which Australia has a taxation treaty.
Most Western countries have a taxation and the convention between the US and Australia which may affect the tax determination that is made annually and thus may be subject to change.
A rate of 30 per cent applies to countries where there US federal income tax consequences of the ownership of the Groups ADSs and shares.
These laws If we were to be treated as a PFIC, unless the shares or ADSs are marketable is no taxation treaty.
In general, taking into account the earlier assumptions that each obligation of stock and a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis the Deposit Agreement and any related agreement will be performed according Since 1988, all dividends paid by Rio Tinto Limited have been fully franked.
with respect to the shares or ADSs, gain realised on the sale or other disposition For the purposes of the Conventions and of the Code, US holders of ADSs to its terms, for US federal income tax purposes, if you hold ADRs evidencing It is the Groups policy to pay fully franked dividends whenever possible.
of the shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as capital gain.
Instead, are treated as the owners of the underlying shares.
ADSs, you will be treated as the owner of the shares represented by those The boards expect Rio Tinto Limited to be able to pay fully franked dividends if you are a US holder, you would be treated as if you had realised such gain The summary describes the treatment applicable under the conventions in ADRs.
Exchanges of shares for ADRs, and ADRs for shares, generally will not be for the foreseeable future.
and certain excess distributions rateably over your holding period for the force at the date of this report.
subject to US federal income tax.
shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each Dividend reinvestment plan such year to which the gain was allocated, together with an interest charge Taxation of dividends Shareholders will generally be liable for tax on dividends reinvested in the UK taxation of shareholdings in Rio Tinto plc in respect of the tax attributable to each such year.
In addition, dividends that Under the US federal income tax laws, and subject to the Passive Foreign DRP on the same basis as if they had received the cash and arranged the Taxation of dividends you receive from us will not be eligible for the special tax rates applicable to Investment Company PFIC Rules discussed below, if you are a US holder, the investment.
The dividend should therefore be included in the annual tax return US holders are not liable to UK withholding tax on dividends paid by Rio Tinto qualified dividend income if we are a PFIC either in the taxable year of the gross amount of any dividend the Group pays out of its current or accumulated as assessable income.
Dividends carry a tax credit equal to one-ninth of the net dividend, or ten distribution or the preceding taxable year, but instead will be taxable at rates earnings and profits as determined for US federal income tax purposes is per cent of the net dividend plus the tax credit.
The tax credit is not repayable The shares acquired should be added to the shareholding at the date of applicable to ordinary income.
subject to US federal income taxation.
acquisition at the actual cost of the shares, which is the amount of the Documents on display If you are a non-corporate US holder, dividends paid to you in taxable years dividend applied by the shareholder to acquire shares and any incidental Capital gains beginning after 31 December 2012 will be taxed at ordinary income rates on Rio Tinto is subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission reporting costs associated with the acquisition will form part of the cost base or A US holder will not normally be liable to UK tax on capital gains realised on dividends.
A Form 20-F, which corresponds with the reduced cost base of the shares for capital gains tax purposes.
the disposition of Rio Tinto plc ADSs or shares unless the holder carries on a Form 10-K for US public companies, was filed with the SEC on 14 March 2014. trade, profession or vocation in the UK through a permanent establishment in You must include any Australian tax withheld from the dividend payment in Capital gains tax Rio Tintos Form 20-F and other filings can be viewed on the Rio Tinto website the UK and the ADSs or shares have been used for the purposes of the trade, this gross amount even though you do not in fact receive it.
The dividend is The Australian capital gains tax legislation is complex.
If shareholders have as well as the SEC website at www.
ADR holders may also read without profession or vocation or are acquired, held or used for the purposes of such taxable to you when you, in the case of shares, or the depositary, in the case acquired shares after 19 September 1985 they may be subject to capital gains charge and copy at prescribed rates any document filed at the public reference a permanent establishment.
of ADSs, receive the dividend, actually or constructively.
The dividend will tax on the disposal of those shares.
facilities of the SECs principal office at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US Inheritance tax US.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the Generally, disposal of shares held on capital account would give rise to a capital corporations in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
Under the UK US Estate Tax Treaty, a US holder, who is domiciled in the US operation of the public reference facilities.
A capital gain arises when the proceeds on disposal are greater The amount of the dividend distribution that you must include in your income and is not a national of the UK, will not be subject to UK inheritance tax upon than the cost base of shares.
A capital loss arises when the proceeds on sale as a US holder will be the US dollar value of the non-US dollar payments made, the holders death or on a transfer during the holders lifetime, unless the ADSs are less than the cost base or reduced cost base.
Where a capital gain arises determined at the spot UK pound US dollar rate in the case of Rio Tinto plc and shares form part of the business property of a permanent establishment in on shares held for at least 12 months, individual, trust and superannuation or the spot Australian dollar US dollar rate in the case of Rio Tinto Limited the UK or pertain to a fixed base situated in the UK used in the performance of fund shareholders may be eligible for a capital gains tax discount.
on the date the dividend distribution is includible in your income, regardless of independent personal services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs or shares whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Generally, any gain or Shareholders are advised to seek the advice of an independent taxation are subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US Federal gift or estate tax, the loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the period from the consultant on any possible capital gains tax exposure.
UK Estate Tax Treaty generally provides for tax payments to be relieved in date you include the dividend payment in income to the date you convert the accordance with the priority rules set out in the Treaty.
payment into US dollars will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not 242 243 243 riotinto.
