Notes to the 2013 financial statements 1 Principal accounting policies Corporate information The financial statements of the Group as defined in b Basis of consolidation below were authorised for issue in accordance with a directors resolution on 5 March 2014.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are listed and incorporated respectively on Stock Exchanges in the UK and Australia.
Rio Tinto plcs registered office is at 2 Eastbourne Terrace, London W2 6LG, UK.
Rio Tinto Limiteds registered office is at 120 Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia, 3000.
Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
Major products are iron ore, aluminium, copper, diamonds, coal, uranium, gold and industrial minerals borates, titanium dioxide and salt.
Activities span the world and are strongly represented in Australia and North America with significant businesses in Asia, Europe, Africa and South America.
Information on the Groups structure is provided in notes 33 to 36.
Information on other related party relationships of the Group is provided in note 40.
Basis of preparation The basis of preparation and the accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out below.
The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU IFRS and with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IFRS and interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC and adopted by the EU that are mandatory or, in certain cases permitted to be early-adopted, for the year ended 31 December 2013, the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and in accordance with applicable UK law, applicable Australian law as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012 and Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis page 109.
The EU IFRS financial information has been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2012, except for the changes in accounting requirements set out below.
The impact of these changes in accounting requirements on the statement of financial position as at 1 January 2012, together with the impact on the income statement for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2012, are set out on pages 191 to 192.
Material impacts on the primary statements for prior periods presented are explained below.
With the exception of IFRS 13 and IAS 19 revised 2011, all of the changes were effective from 1 January 2011, the earliest period presented in these financial statements.
Application of IAS 19 revised 2011 is fully retrospective.
These Annual Improvements address six areas, none of which materially impacted the Groups primary statements.
Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income.
The amendment requires items presented in other comprehensive income OCI to be grouped on the basis of whether they can potentially be reclassified to the income statement reclassification adjustments.
Tax applicable to these items is grouped on the same basis.
The Groups statement of comprehensive income for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2012 has been re-presented accordingly.
IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee Benefits IAS 19R.
The amendment to IAS 19 requires the expected return on plan assets to assume returns in line with the discount rate applied in the calculation of the pension obligation, whereas the previous standard allowed an assumed rate based on plan assets actually held which generally gave a higher rate.
The income statement impact on the expected return on assets is offset in actuarial gains and losses within the Statement of comprehensive income.
The amendment also changes the timing of recognition of past service cost.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements and IAS 28 revised 2011 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IAS 28 are not mandatory under EU IFRS until 2014, however, early adoption is permitted and the Group has chosen to early-adopt.
IFRS 10 replaces previous guidance on control and consolidation in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and SIC 12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
It provides a revised definition of control to be used as the basis for determining which entities are consolidated in the financial statements.
IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
The classification and subsequent accounting for joint arrangements now depends on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement and not just the legal form.
These standards have been adopted with effect from 1 January 2011.
All entities and arrangements within the Group have been reviewed to assess the impact of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
As a result certain operations including Queensland Alumina Limited, New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited, and Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. that were previously equity accounted are now accounted for as Joint Operations.
These arrangements are primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties sharing joint control indicating that the parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets.
The liabilities of the arrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received from the parties: this dependence indicates that the parties effectively have obligations for the liabilities.
It is these facts and circumstances that give rise to the classification as Joint Operations.
As a result the Group no longer recognises Investments in equity accounted units or Share of profit loss after tax of equity accounted units or Impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units for these arrangements, but instead consolidates its share of their assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows on a line-by-line basis.
The reduction in Investments in equity accounted units and increase in other assets shown in the restated Statement of financial position at 1 January 2012 also results in a reallocation of the 2012 impairment charge.
Under IFRS the impairment charge is allocated to goodwill before other assets: the goodwill that is recognised in the restated Statement of financial position at 1 January 2012 is therefore impaired before certain other assets in 2012.
This results in an increase of US$1.4 billion in the allocation of the impairment charge to goodwill, with a corresponding decrease in the allocation to Property, plant and equipment, Investments in equity accounted units and Intangible assets as well as an increase in Deferred tax liabilities.
There is no change in the total Aluminium businesses post-tax impairment charge for 2012 as a result of these changes.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
IFRS 12 includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities.
This disclosure is included in notes 33 to 36.
IFRS 13 is prospective in application.
It establishes a single source of guidance for all fair value measurements.
The standard provides guidance on how to measure fair value when fair value is required or permitted under other standards.
It does not change when an entity is required to use fair value.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, this has resulted in some minor changes to the method of valuation of embedded commodity derivatives.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine.
In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste 1 Principal accounting policies materials in order to access ore from which minerals can be extracted economically.
The process of removing overburden and waste materials is referred to as Corporate information stripping.
The Group capitalises pre-production stripping costs incurred during the development of a mine or pit as part of the investment in construction of the The financial statements of the Group as defined in b Basis of consolidation below were authorised for issue in accordance with a directors resolution on mine or pit.
These costs are subsequently amortised over the life of the mine or pit on a units of production basis.
This accounting treatment is unchanged 5 March 2014.
Rio Tinto plcs registered by the implementation of IFRIC 20 which specifies the accounting for production phase stripping costs only.
The Groups accounting policy for production phase office is at 2 Eastbourne Terrace, London W2 6LG, UK.
Rio Tinto Limiteds registered office is at 120 Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia, 3000. stripping costs for 2012 and previous years was to defer costs where this was the most appropriate basis for matching the costs against the related economic Rio Tintos business is finding, mining and processing mineral resources.
Major products are iron ore, aluminium, copper, diamonds, coal, uranium, gold and benefits and the effect was material.
Implementation of IFRIC 20 has changed the way in which the Group accounts for production phase stripping costs and industrial minerals borates, titanium dioxide and salt.
Activities span the world and are strongly represented in Australia and North America with significant resulted in a write-off to retained earnings on implementation.
IFRIC 20 is not fully retrospective: the impact of adoption is calculated as at 1 January 2011 and businesses in Asia, Europe, Africa and South America.
Information on other related party comparatives are restated from that point.
On implementation of IFRIC 20, capitalised production phase stripping costs could only be carried forward if they could relationships of the Group is provided in note 40. be identified with a remaining component of the orebody for the relevant business unit.
A net amount of US$0.7 billion was therefore written off these capitalised costs pre-tax and non-controlling interests which reduced retained earnings at 1 January 2011 by US$0.4 billion post tax and non-controlling interests.
Basis of preparation Amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount Disclosures for Non-financial Assets.
The amendment clarifies the disclosures required in relation to the The basis of preparation and the accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out below.
recoverable amount of impaired assets if that amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal.
The Group has early adopted the amendment and the related The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted disclosures are included in note 6. by the European Union EU IFRS and with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IFRS and The Group has not applied the following pronouncements which are not mandatory for 2013: interpretations issued from time to time by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC and adopted by the EU that are mandatory or, in certain cases permitted to be early-adopted, for the year ended 31 December 2013, the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and in accordance with Mandatory for 2014 applicable UK law, applicable Australian law as amended by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Order dated 22 December 2010 as amended Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
The amendment has been endorsed on 17 February 2012 and Article 4 of the European Union IAS regulation.
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis page 109. by the EU.
IFRIC 21 Levies clarifies when to recognise a liability to pay a levy.
A levy is an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that is imposed by The EU IFRS financial information has been drawn up on the basis of accounting policies consistent with those applied in the financial statements for the year to governments on entities in accordance with legislation.
IFRIC 21 does not apply to items that are within the scope of other Standards such as income taxes 31 December 2012, except for the changes in accounting requirements set out below.
The impact of these changes in accounting requirements on the statement that are within the scope of IAS 12 Income Taxes or fines and penalties.
IFRIC 21 has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
of financial position as at 1 January 2012, together with the impact on the income statement for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2012, are set out on pages 191 to 192.
With the exception of IFRS 13 and IAS 19 Mandatory for 2015 and beyond and not yet endorsed by the EU revised 2011, all of the changes were effective from 1 January 2011, the earliest period presented in these financial statements.
Application of IAS 19 revised 2011 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
It replaces the parts of is fully retrospective.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The Group is currently evaluating the impact of these pronouncements which are not currently expected to materially impact the Groups earnings or shareholders funds.
The amendment requires items presented in other comprehensive income OCI to be grouped on the basis of whether they can potentially be reclassified to the income statement Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty reclassification adjustments.
The Groups statement of comprehensive income for the years The preparation of the financial statements requires the use of judgment in applying accounting policies and in making critical accounting estimates.
ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2012 has been re-presented accordingly.
These judgments and estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, having regard to previous experience, IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee Benefits IAS 19R.
The amendment to IAS 19 requires the expected return on plan assets to assume returns in line with but actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.
Information about such significant judgments and estimation is contained the discount rate applied in the calculation of the pension obligation, whereas the previous standard allowed an assumed rate based on plan assets actually held in the accounting policies and or the Notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
which generally gave a higher rate.
The income statement impact on the expected return on assets is offset in actuarial gains and losses within the Statement Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are: of comprehensive income.
Merger accounting for the 1995 merger of the economic interests of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited into the dual listed companies DLC structure IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IAS 28 are not mandatory under EU IFRS until 2014, however, early adoption is permitted and the Group has chosen to early-adopt.
see Dual listed companies structure on page 117 : IFRS 10 replaces previous guidance on control and consolidation in IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements and SIC 12 Consolidation Special Acquisitions note 1 b and note 37: Purpose Entities.
Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill note 1 e and i, note 6, note 12 and note 13: IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
The classification and subsequent accounting for joint arrangements now depends on the rights and Estimation of asset lives note 1 e and i : obligations of the parties to the arrangement and not just the legal form.
Determination of ore reserve estimates note 1 j : All entities and arrangements within the Group have been reviewed to assess the impact of IFRS 10 and IFRS 11.
As a result certain operations including Provision for onerous contracts note 1 i Queensland Alumina Limited, New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited, and Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. that were previously equity accounted are now accounted for as Joint Operations.
These arrangements are primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties sharing joint control indicating that the Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations note 1 k : parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets.
The liabilities of the arrangements are in substance satisfied by cash flows received Deferral of stripping costs note 1 h : from the parties: this dependence indicates that the parties effectively have obligations for the liabilities.
It is these facts and circumstances that give rise to the Recognition of deferred tax on mining rights recognised in acquisitions note 1 m : classification as Joint Operations.
As a result the Group no longer recognises Investments in equity accounted units or Share of profit loss after tax of equity Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 d and f : accounted units or Impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units for these arrangements, but instead consolidates its share of their assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and cash flows on a line-by-line basis.
The reduction in Investments in equity accounted units and increase in other assets shown Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs note 1 f : in the restated Statement of financial position at 1 January 2012 also results in a reallocation of the 2012 impairment charge.
Under IFRS the impairment charge Identification of functional currencies note 1 d : is allocated to goodwill before other assets: the goodwill that is recognised in the restated Statement of financial position at 1 January 2012 is therefore impaired Basis of consolidation note 1 b : and before certain other assets in 2012.
This results in an increase of US$1.4 billion in the allocation of the impairment charge to goodwill, with a corresponding Post-retirement cost assumptions note 1 n. decrease in the allocation to Property, plant and equipment, Investments in equity accounted units and Intangible assets as well as an increase in Deferred tax liabilities.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities.
This disclosure is included in notes 33 to 36. Review of asset carrying values, impairment charges and reversals and the recoverability of goodwill note1 e and i, note 6, note 12 and note 13: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The standard Estimation of close-down, restoration and environmental costs and the timing of expenditure note 1 k and note 26: provides guidance on how to measure fair value when fair value is required or permitted under other standards.
It does not change when an entity is required to Estimation of obligations for post-retirement costs note 45: use fair value.
Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets note 17 d and f : Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs note 1 f : and Contingencies note 31.
These areas of judgment and estimation are discussed further in critical accounting policies and estimates on page 129.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued a Accounting convention The financial information included in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, and for the related comparative periods, has been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative contracts and financial assets, the impact of fair value hedge accounting on the hedged item and the accounting for post-retirement assets and obligations.
The Groups policy in respect of these items is set out in the notes below.
The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million US$m unless otherwise stated.
b Basis of consolidation The financial statements comprise the consolidation of the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together the Companies and their respective subsidiaries together the Group together with the Groups share of joint arrangements and associates accounted for as described below.
All intragroup transactions and balances have been eliminated on consolidation.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the assets, liabilities, and results of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Companies.
Control exists where the Companies have: power over the entities, ie existing rights that give them the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the entities those that significantly affect the Companies returns : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from their involvement with the entities: and the ability to use their power to affect those returns.
Joint Arrangements: A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control such that decisions about the relevant activities of the arrangement those that significantly affect the Companies returns require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Group has two types of joint arrangement: Joint Operations JOs : A JO is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
This includes situations where the parties benefit from the joint activity through a share of the output, rather than by receiving a share of the results of trading.
In relation to its interest in a JO, the Group recognises: its share of assets and liabilities, revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its share of any revenue generated from the sale of the output by the JO: and its share of expenses.
These are incorporated into the Groups financial statements under the appropriate headings.
Joint Ventures JVs : A JV is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
JVs are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
Associates: An associate is an entity that is neither a subsidiary nor a joint arrangement, over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is presumed to exist where there is neither control nor joint control and the Group has over 20 per cent of the voting rights, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that this is not the case.
Significant influence can arise where the Group holds less than 20 per cent of the voting rights if it has the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions affecting the entity.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity accounting method.
The Group uses the term Equity accounted units EAUs to refer to associates and JVs collectively.
For all EAUs, the carrying value will include any long-term debt interests that in substance form part of the Groups net investment.
Under the equity accounting method the investment is recorded initially at cost to the Group, including any goodwill on acquisition.
In subsequent periods the carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to reflect the Groups share of the EAUs retained post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses in an EAU equals or exceeds its interest in the EAU, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the EAU.
Acquisitions Under the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed the identifiable net assets on the basis of their fair value at the date of acquisition which is the date on which control is obtained.
Provisional fair values allocated at a reporting date are finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Any shortfall is immediately recognised in the income statement.
Costs related to the acquisition of a subsidiary are expensed as incurred.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets or at fair value.
In some cases, non-controlling interests may be treated as equity options and valued on that basis.
Goodwill see note e and amounts attributable to non-controlling interests will differ depending on the basis used.
Where the Group has a previously held non-controlling interest in the acquiree, this is remeasured to fair value at the date control is gained with any gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
The cash cost of the share purchase that gives rise to control is included within Investing activities in the cash flow statement.
Where the Group increases its ownership interest in a subsidiary, the difference between the purchase price and the carrying value of the share of net assets acquired is recorded in equity.
The cash cost of such purchases is included within Financing activities in the cash flow statement.
The results of businesses acquired during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant influence commences.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Disposals 1 Principal accounting policies continued Individual non-current assets or disposal groups ie groups of assets and liabilities to be disposed of, by sale or otherwise in a single transaction, are classified a Accounting convention as held for sale if the following criteria are met at the period end: The financial information included in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, and for the related comparative periods, has been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative contracts and financial assets, the impact of fair value hedge accounting the carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use: and on the hedged item and the accounting for post-retirement assets and obligations.
the disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for such sales: and The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million US$m unless otherwise stated.
the sale is highly probable.
b Basis of consolidation Disposal groups held for sale are carried at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The comparative statement of financial position is not The financial statements comprise the consolidation of the accounts of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together the Companies and their respective restated.
Disposal groups acquired with a view to resale are held at the fair value determined at the acquisition date.
For these assets acquired for resale no profits subsidiaries together the Group together with the Groups share of joint arrangements and associates accounted for as described below.
or losses are recognised between the acquisition date and the disposal date, unless there is a subsequent impairment.
On classification as held for sale, the assets are no longer depreciated.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the assets, liabilities, and results of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates to bring their accounting policies The results of businesses disposed of are included in the consolidated financial statements until the date on which control, joint control or significant influence into line with those used by the Group.
The cash proceeds of disposals are included within Investing activities in the cash flow statement.
If control is lost, any interest in the entity retained by the Group is remeasured to its fair value and the change in carrying amount is recognised in the income statement.
The retained interest may be subsequently Subsidiaries: Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Companies.
Control exists where the Companies have: power over the entities, ie existing rights that give accounted for as a joint venture, associate or financial asset depending on the facts.
Any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect them the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the entities those that significantly affect the Companies returns : exposure, or rights, to variable returns of the entity disposed of, or for which control, joint control or significant influence has ceased may be recycled to the income statement in proportion to the interest from their involvement with the entities: and the ability to use their power to affect those returns.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests where control is retained are recorded in equity.
The cash proceeds of such disposals are included within control such that decisions about the relevant activities of the arrangement those that significantly affect the Companies returns require the unanimous consent Financing activities in the cash flow statement.
of the parties sharing control.
The Group has two types of joint arrangement: c Sales revenue Joint Operations JOs : A JO is a joint arrangement in which the parties that share joint control have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
This includes situations where the parties benefit from the joint activity through a share of the output, rather than by receiving a share of the Sales revenue comprises sales to third parties at invoiced amounts.
Most sales are priced ex works, free on board fob or cost, insurance and freight cif.
In relation to its interest in a JO, the Group recognises: its share of assets and liabilities, revenue from the sale of its share of the output and its billed to customers in respect of shipping and handling are classified as sales revenue where the Group is responsible for carriage, insurance and freight.
All shipping share of any revenue generated from the sale of the output by the JO: and its share of expenses.
These are incorporated into the Groups financial statements and handling costs incurred by the Group are recognised as operating costs.
If the Group is acting solely as an agent, amounts billed to customers are offset against under the appropriate headings.
Revenue from services is recognised as services are rendered and accepted by the customer.
JVs are accounted Sales revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes.
Mining royalties are presented as an operating cost or, where they are in substance a profit-based tax, for using the equity accounting method.
Significant influence is Revenues from the sale of significant by-products, such as gold, are included in sales revenue.
Sundry revenue, incidental to the main revenue-generating activities presumed to exist where there is neither control nor joint control and the Group has over 20 per cent of the voting rights, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that of the operations, and which is a consequence of producing and selling the main products, is treated as a credit to operating costs.
Significant influence can arise where the Group holds less than 20 per cent of the voting rights if it has the power to participate in the financial Third-party commodity swap arrangements for delivery and receipt of smelter grade alumina are offset within operating costs.
and operating policy decisions affecting the entity.
Sales revenue is only recognised on individual sales when all of the following criteria are met: The Group uses the term Equity accounted units EAUs to refer to associates and JVs collectively.
the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the product have been transferred to the buyer: neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor effective control over the goods sold, has been retained: Under the equity accounting method the investment is recorded initially at cost to the Group, including any goodwill on acquisition.
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: When the Groups share of losses in an EAU equals or exceeds its interest in the EAU, including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the sale will flow to the Group: and further losses, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the EAU.
the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the sale can be measured reliably.
Acquisitions These conditions are generally satisfied when title passes to the customer.
In most instances, sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered Under the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations, the purchase consideration is allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically the vessel on which it will be shipped, the destination port or the customers premises.
and contingent liabilities assumed the identifiable net assets on the basis of their fair value at the date of acquisition which is the date on which control is obtained.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of The majority of the Groups products are sold to customers under contracts, which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable net spot market.
assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Pricing for iron ore is on a range of terms, the majority being either monthly or quarterly average pricing mechanisms, with a smaller proportion of iron ore Costs related to the acquisition of a subsidiary are expensed as incurred.
volumes being sold on the spot market.
Substantially all iron ore sales are reflected at final prices in the results for the period, based on the best available information at the period end.
Goodwill Sales revenue is commonly subject to adjustment based on an inspection of the product by the customer.
In such cases, sales revenue is initially recognised see note e and amounts attributable to non-controlling interests will differ depending on the basis used.
on a provisional basis using the Groups best estimate of contained metal, and adjusted subsequently.
Where the Group has a previously held non-controlling interest in the acquiree, this is remeasured to fair value at the date control is gained with any gain or loss Certain products are provisionally priced, ie the selling price is subject to final adjustment at the end of a period normally ranging from 30 to 180 days after recognised in the income statement.
The final price is based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Where the Group increases its ownership interest in a subsidiary, the difference between the purchase price and the carrying value of the share of net assets acquired As is customary in the industry, revenue on provisionally-priced sales is recognised based on estimates of the fair value of the consideration receivable based on is recorded in equity.
At each reporting date, provisionally priced metal is marked to market based on the forward selling price for the quotational period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose, the selling price can be measured reliably for those products, such as copper, for which there exists an active and The results of businesses acquired during the year are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control, joint control or significant freely-traded commodity market such as the London Metals Exchange and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded influence commences.
The marking to market of provisionally-priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
Information on provisionally-priced sales contracts is included in note 30.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued d Currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for joint arrangements and associates, is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that entity operates.
For many entities, this is the currency of the country in which they are located.
Transactions denominated in other currencies are converted to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at year end exchange rates.
The Groups accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting are explained in more detail in note 1 p iii.
The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars, as that presentation currency most reliably reflects the global business performance of the Group as a whole.
On consolidation, income statement items for each entity are translated from the functional currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange where the average is a reasonable approximation of rates prevailing on the transaction date.
Statement of financial position items are translated into US dollars at period-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar are recognised directly in the foreign currency translation reserve.
These translation differences are shown in the statement of comprehensive income with the exception of translation adjustments relating to Rio Tinto Limiteds share capital which are shown in the statement of changes in equity.
Where an intragroup balance is, in substance, part of the Groups net investment in an entity, exchange gains and losses on that balance are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Except as noted above, or in note p below relating to derivative contracts, all other exchange differences are charged or credited to the income statement in the year in which they arise.
e Goodwill and intangible assets excluding exploration and evaluation expenditure Goodwill is not amortised: it is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Investments in EAUs including any goodwill are tested for impairment as a single asset when a trigger for impairment has been identified.
The Groups impairment policy is explained in note 1 i.
Purchased intangible assets are initially recorded at cost.
Finite-life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use are not amortised: they are reviewed annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in accordance with accounting policy note 1 i.
The Group considers that intangible assets have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this determination include the existence of contractual rights for unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite future periods in view of the Groups investment intentions.
The life cycles of the products and processes that depend on the asset are also considered.
f Exploration and evaluation Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly attributable to: researching and analysing existing exploration data: conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with economic potential.
Evaluation expenditure arises from a detailed assessment of deposits or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential.
Expenditure on exploration activity is not capitalised.
Capitalisation of evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable, and therefore it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
The carrying values of capitalised evaluation expenditure are reviewed for impairment twice a year by management.
In the case of undeveloped mining projects projects for which the decision to mine has not yet been approved at the appropriate authorisation level within the Group which have arisen through acquisition, there may be only inferred resources to form a basis for that review.
The review is based on a status report summarising the Groups intentions for development.
In some cases, undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production.
Where this is the case, it is intended that these will be developed and go into production when the current source of ore is exhausted or to replace the output when existing smelters and or refineries are closed.
It is often the case that technological and other improvements will allow successor smelters and or refineries to more than replace the capacity of their predecessors.
g Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, as defined in IAS 16, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes the estimated close-down and restoration costs associated with the asset.
Once an undeveloped mining project has been established as commercially viable and approval to mine has been given, expenditure other than that on land, buildings, plant and equipment is capitalised under Mining properties and leases together with any amount transferred from Exploration and evaluation.
Commercial viability is deemed to be achieved when the Group determines that the project will provide a satisfactory return relative to its perceived risks.
Ore reserves may be declared for an undeveloped mining project before its commercial viability has been fully determined.
Evaluation costs may continue to be capitalised during the period between declaration of reserves and approval to mine as further work is undertaken in order to refine the development case to maximise the projects returns.
Costs of evaluation of an undeveloped smelter or refinery project are capitalised under Capital works in progress, provided that there is a high degree of confidence that the project will be deemed to be commercially viable.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Costs which are necessarily incurred whilst commissioning new assets, in the period before they are capable of operating in the manner intended by management, 1 Principal accounting policies continued are capitalised.
Development costs incurred after the commencement of production are capitalised to the extent they are expected to give rise to a future economic d Currency translation benefit.
Interest on borrowings related to construction or development projects is capitalised, at the rate payable on project-specific debt if applicable, or at the The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for joint arrangements and associates, is the currency of the primary economic environment in which that Groups cost of borrowing if not, until the point when substantially all the activities that are necessary to make the asset ready for its intended use are complete.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at h Deferred stripping year end exchange rates.
In open pit mining operations, it is necessary to remove overburden and other waste materials to access ore from which minerals can be extracted economically.
The Groups financial statements are presented in US dollars, as that presentation currency most reliably reflects the global business performance of the Group The process of removing overburden and waste materials is referred to as stripping.
During the development of a mine or pit, before production commences, as a whole.
On consolidation, income statement items for each entity are translated from the functional currency into US dollars at average rates of exchange stripping costs are capitalised as part of the investment in construction of the mine or pit and are subsequently amortised over the life of the mine or pit on where the average is a reasonable approximation of rates prevailing on the transaction date.
Statement of financial position items are translated into US dollars a units of production basis.
Where a mine operates several open pits that are regarded as separate operations for the purpose of mine planning, initial stripping costs are accounted for Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of entities with functional currencies other than the US dollar are recognised directly in the foreign separately by reference to the ore from each separate pit.
If, however, the pits are highly integrated for the purpose of mine planning, the second and subsequent currency translation reserve.
These translation differences are shown in the statement of comprehensive income with the exception of translation adjustments pits are regarded as extensions of the first pit in accounting for stripping costs.
In such cases, the initial stripping ie overburden and other waste removal of the relating to Rio Tinto Limiteds share capital which are shown in the statement of changes in equity.
second and subsequent pits is considered to be production phase stripping and accounted for by reference to the specific volume of the orebody that is made more accessible by the stripping activity.
Except as noted above, or in note p below relating to derivative contracts, all other exchange differences are charged or credited to The Groups determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations depends on each mines specific circumstances.
the income statement in the year in which they arise.
The following factors would point towards the initial stripping costs for the individual pits being accounted for separately: If mining of the second and subsequent pits is conducted consecutively with that of the first pit, rather than concurrently.
e Goodwill and intangible assets excluding exploration and evaluation expenditure If separate investment decisions are made to develop each pit, rather than a single investment decision being made at the outset.
Goodwill is not amortised: it is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The Groups impairment policy is If the pits are operated as separate units in terms of mine planning and the sequencing of overburden removal and ore mining, rather than as an integrated unit.
If expenditures for additional infrastructure to support the second and subsequent pits are relatively large.
Finite-life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of If the pits extract ore from separate and distinct orebodies, rather than from a single orebody.
Intangible assets that are deemed to have indefinite lives and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use are not amortised: If the designs of the second and subsequent pits are significantly influenced by opportunities to optimise output from the several pits combined, including the they are reviewed annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in accordance with accounting co-treatment or blending of the output from the pits, then this would point to treatment as an integrated operation in accounting for stripping costs.
The relative importance of each of the above factors is considered in each case.
The factors considered in making this determination include the existence of contractual rights In order for production phase stripping costs to qualify for capitalisation as a stripping activity asset, three criteria must be met: for unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite future periods in view of the it must be probable that economic benefit will be realised in a future accounting period as a result of improved access to the orebody created by the stripping Groups investment intentions.
activity: and f Exploration and evaluation it must be possible to identify the component of the orebody for which access has been improved: and Exploration and evaluation expenditure comprises costs that are directly attributable to: it must be possible to reliably measure the costs that relate to the stripping activity.
researching and analysing existing exploration data: A component is a specific volume of the orebody that is made more accessible by the stripping activity.
It will typically be a subset of the larger orebody that conducting geological studies, exploratory drilling and sampling: is distinguished by a separate useful economic life.
examining and testing extraction and treatment methods: and or When the cost of stripping related to development which has a future benefit is not distinguishable from the cost of producing current inventories, ie there is a compiling pre-feasibility and feasibility studies.
mixture of waste being removed to extract ore in the current period as well as waste being removed to allow extraction of ore in future periods, the stripping costs are allocated to each activity based on a relevant production measure.
Generally, the measure would be calculated based on a ratio Ratio obtained by dividing Exploration expenditure relates to the initial search for deposits with economic potential.
Evaluation expenditure arises from a detailed assessment of deposits the tonnage of waste mined for the component for the period either by the quantity of ore mined for the component or by the quantity of minerals contained in the or other projects that have been identified as having economic potential.
ore mined for the component.
In some operations, the quantity of ore is a more appropriate basis for allocating costs, particularly, where there are significant byCapitalisation of evaluation expenditure commences when there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable, products.
Stripping costs incurred in the period related to the component are deferred to the extent that the current period Ratio exceeds the life of component and therefore it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
The stripping activity asset is depreciated on a units of production basis based on expected production of either ore or contained minerals over the life of the component unless another method is more appropriate.
In the case of undeveloped mining projects projects for which the decision to mine has not yet been approved at the appropriate authorisation level within the Group which have arisen through acquisition, The life of component Ratios are based on proved and probable reserves of the mine and for some mines, other mineral resources and the annual mine plan: there may be only inferred resources to form a basis for that review.
they are a function of the mine design and therefore changes to that design will generally result in changes to the Ratios.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on reserves may also have an impact on the life of component Ratios even if they do not affect the mine design.
Changes to the life of In some cases, undeveloped projects are regarded as successors to orebodies, smelters or refineries currently in production.
Where this is the case, it is intended component Ratios are accounted for prospectively.
It may be the case that subsequent phases of stripping will access additional ore and that these subsequent that these will be developed and go into production when the current source of ore is exhausted or to replace the output when existing smelters and or refineries phases are only possible after the first phase has taken place.
Where applicable, the Group considers this on a mine-by-mine basis.
Generally, the only ore attributed are closed.
It is often the case that technological and other improvements will allow successor smelters and or refineries to more than replace the capacity of to the stripping activity asset for the purposes of calculating a life of component Ratio, and for the purposes of amortisation, is the ore to be extracted from the their predecessors.
g Property, plant and equipment Deferred stripping costs are included in Mining properties and leases within Property, plant and equipment or within Investments in equity accounted units, Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, as defined in IAS 16, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The cost of property, as appropriate.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is included in Net operating costs or in Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units, as appropriate.
plant and equipment includes the estimated close-down and restoration costs associated with the asset.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued i Depreciation and impairment Depreciation of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if that is shorter and there is no alternative use for the asset.
The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are often dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate.
Where this is the case, the lives of mining properties, and their associated refineries, concentrators and other long-lived processing equipment generally relate to the expected life of the orebody.
The life of the orebody, in turn, is estimated on the basis of the life-of-mine plan.
Where the major assets of a cash-generating unit are not dependent on the life of a related orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the remaining service potential of long-lived assets.
In the case of smelters, factors affecting the remaining service potential include smelter technology and electricity purchase contracts when the power is not sourced from the companys, or certain local governments, electricity generating capacity.
The useful lives and residual values for material assets and categories of assets are reviewed annually and charges reflected prospectively.
Depreciation commences when an asset is available for use.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of production and or straight-line basis as follows: Units of production basis For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, the consumption of the economic benefits of the asset is linked to the production level.
Except as noted below, these assets are depreciated on a units of production basis.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated based on production in the period as a percentage of total expected production in current and future periods based on proved and probable reserves and, for some mines, other mineral resources.
These other mineral resources may be included in depreciation calculations in limited circumstances and where there is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
This would be the case when the other mineral resources do not yet have the status of reserves merely because the necessary detailed evaluation work has not yet been performed and the responsible technical personnel agree that inclusion of a proportion of measured and indicated resources is appropriate based on historic reserve conversion rates.
Such inclusion would usually only occur in situations where there are very large areas of contiguous mineralisation, for which the economic viability is not sensitive to likely variations in grade, as may be the case for certain iron ore, bauxite and industrial minerals deposits.
The required level of confidence is unlikely to exist for minerals that are typically found in low-grade ore, compared with the above such as copper or gold.
In these cases, specific areas of mineralisation have to be evaluated in considerable detail before their economic status can be predicted with confidence.
Where measured and indicated resources are used in the calculation of depreciation for infrastructure, primarily rail and port, which will benefit current and future mines then the measured and indicated resources may relate to mines which are currently in production or to mines which will be brought into production in the future.
The quantum of resources is determined taking into account future capital costs as required by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
The depreciation calculation, however, does not take into account future development costs for mines which are not yet in production.
Measured and indicated resources are currently only incorporated into depreciation calculations in the Groups Australian iron ore business.
Straight-line basis Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight-line basis.
Impairment of non-current assets Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
All goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use or have an indefinite life are tested annually for impairment as at 30 September, regardless of whether there has been an impairment trigger, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Impairment is assessed at the level of cash-generating units which, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, are identified as the smallest identifiable group of assets that generate cash inflows, which are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets.
The existence of an active market for intermediate products is also monitored and separate cash-generating units are identified even if the majority of those products are further processed internally and therefore the cash flows are not independent.
In some cases, individual business units consist of several operations with independent cash-generating streams, which constitute separate cash-generating units.
Goodwill acquired through business combinations is allocated to the cash-generating unit, or groups of cash-generating units if that is the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, that are expected to benefit from the related business combination.
When an impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of expected future cash flows of the relevant cash-generating unit in its current condition and fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD.
When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit has been measured by reference to FVLCD, this amount has been further classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy for observable market data that is consistent with the unit of account for the cash-generating unit being tested.
The best evidence of FVLCD is the value obtained from an active market or binding sale agreement and the recoverable amount is classified in the fair value hierarchy as level 1.
When FVLCD is based on quoted prices for equity instruments but adjusted to reflect factors such as a lack of liquidity in the market, the recoverable amount is classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
No cash-generating units are currently assessed for impairment by reference to a recoverable amount based on FVLCD classified as level 2.
Where unobservable inputs are material to the measurement of the recoverable amount, FVLCD is based on the best information available to reflect the amount the Group could receive for the cash-generating unit in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
This is often estimated using discounted cash flow techniques and is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Where the recoverable amount is assessed using FVLCD based on discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on detailed life-of-mine and or production plans.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued The cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on managements best estimates of expected future revenues and costs, including the future cash costs 1 Principal accounting policies continued of production, capital expenditure, closure, restoration and environmental costs.
For the purposes of determining FVLCD from a market participants perspective, i Depreciation and impairment the cash flows incorporate managements price and cost assumptions in the short and medium term.
In the longer term, operating margins are assumed to remain Depreciation of non-current assets constant where appropriate: as it is considered unlikely that a market participant would prepare detailed forecasts over a longer term.
The cash flow forecasts may Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life, or over the remaining life of the mine if that is shorter and there is no alternative use for the asset.
include net cash flows expected to be realised from extraction, processing and sale of material that does not currently qualify for inclusion in proved or probable The useful lives of the major assets of a cash-generating unit are often dependent on the life of the orebody to which they relate.
Where this is the case, the lives ore reserves.
Such non-reserve material is only included where there is a high degree of confidence in its economic extraction.
This expectation is usually based of mining properties, and their associated refineries, concentrators and other long-lived processing equipment generally relate to the expected life of the orebody.
on preliminary drilling and sampling of areas of mineralisation that are contiguous with existing reserves.
Typically, the additional evaluation to achieve reserve The life of the orebody, in turn, is estimated on the basis of the life-of-mine plan.
Where the major assets of a cash-generating unit are not dependent on the life status for such material has not yet been done because this would involve incurring evaluation costs earlier than is required for the efficient planning and operation of a related orebody, management applies judgment in estimating the remaining service potential of long-lived assets.
In the case of smelters, factors affecting of the mine.
the remaining service potential include smelter technology and electricity purchase contracts when the power is not sourced from the companys, or certain local As noted above, cost levels incorporated in the cash flow forecasts for FVLCD purposes are based on the current life-of-mine plan or long term production plan governments, electricity generating capacity.
This differs from value in use which requires future cash flows to be estimated for the asset in its current condition and therefore does The useful lives and residual values for material assets and categories of assets are reviewed annually and charges reflected prospectively.
not include future cash flows associated with improving or enhancing an assets performance.
Anticipated enhancements to assets may be included in FVLCD calculations and therefore generally result in a higher value.
The major categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a units of production and or straight-line basis as follows: Where the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is dependent on the life of its associated orebody, expected future cash flows reflect long-term mine plans, which are based on detailed research, analysis and iterative modelling to optimise the level of return from investment, output and sequence of extraction.
The mine Units of production basis plan takes account of all relevant characteristics of the orebody, including waste-to-ore ratios, ore grades, haul distances, chemical and metallurgical properties of For mining properties and leases and certain mining equipment, the consumption of the economic benefits of the asset is linked to the production level.
the ore impacting on process recoveries and capacities of processing equipment that can be used.
The life-of-mine plan is therefore the basis for forecasting Except as noted below, these assets are depreciated on a units of production basis.
production output and production costs in each future year.
In applying the units of production method, depreciation is normally calculated based on production in the period as a percentage of total expected production in Forecast cash flows for ore reserve estimation for JORC purposes are generally based on Rio Tintos commodity price forecasts, which assume short-term market current and future periods based on proved and probable reserves and, for some mines, other mineral resources.
These other mineral resources may be included prices will revert to the Groups assessment of the long-term price, generally over a period of three to five years.
For most commodities, these forecast commodity in depreciation calculations in limited circumstances and where there is a high degree of confidence in their economic extraction.
This would be the case when prices are derived from a combination of analyses of the marginal costs of the producers and of the incentive price of these commodities.
These assessments often the other mineral resources do not yet have the status of reserves merely because the necessary detailed evaluation work has not yet been performed and the differ from current price levels and are updated periodically.
The Group does not believe that published medium and long-term forward prices provide a good responsible technical personnel agree that inclusion of a proportion of measured and indicated resources is appropriate based on historic reserve conversion rates.
indication of future levels because they tend to be strongly influenced by spot prices.
These price forecasts are also used for impairment testing unless management Such inclusion would usually only occur in situations where there are very large areas of contiguous mineralisation, for which the economic viability is not sensitive deems that in certain economic environments, a market participant would not assign Rio Tintos view on prices, in which case management estimates the to likely variations in grade, as may be the case for certain iron ore, bauxite and industrial minerals deposits.
The required level of confidence is unlikely to exist for assumptions that a market participant would be expected to use.
minerals that are typically found in low-grade ore, compared with the above such as copper or gold.
Where measured and indicated resources are used in the calculation In some cases, prices applying to some part of the future sales volumes of a cash-generating unit are predetermined by existing sales contracts.
The effects of such of depreciation for infrastructure, primarily rail and port, which will benefit current and future mines then the measured and indicated resources may relate to mines contracts are taken into account in forecasting future cash flows.
which are currently in production or to mines which will be brought into production in the future.
The quantum of resources is determined taking into account future The discount rates applied to the future cash flow forecasts represent an estimate of the rate the market would apply having regard to the time value of money and capital costs as required by the Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC code.
The depreciation calculation, however, does not take into account future development the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital is used as a starting costs for mines which are not yet in production.
Measured and indicated resources are currently only incorporated into depreciation calculations in the Groups point for determining the discount rates, with appropriate adjustments for the risk profile of the countries in which the individual cash-generating units operate.
For final feasibility studies and ore reserve estimation, internal hurdle rates, which are generally higher than the weighted average cost of capital, are used.
Straight-line basis For operations with a functional currency other than the US dollar, the impairment review is undertaken in the relevant functional currency.
The great majority Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than of the Groups sales are based on prices denominated in US dollars.
To the extent that the currencies of countries in which the Group produces commodities the related mine are depreciated on a straight-line basis.
strengthen against the US dollar without commodity price offset, cash flows and, therefore, net present values are reduced.
Impairment of non-current assets In estimating FVLCD, a forecast of the long-term exchange rates for the Australian and Canadian dollars is made having regard to spot exchange rates, historical Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives are reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying amount may data and external forecasts, and is linked to price assumptions.
Management considers that over the long term, there is a tendency for movements in commodity not be recoverable.
All goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet ready for use or have an indefinite life are tested annually for impairment as at prices to compensate to some extent for movements in the value of the US dollar and vice versa.
However, such compensating changes are not synchronised 30 September, regardless of whether there has been an impairment trigger, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a and do not fully offset each other.
IAS 36 requires that value in use be based on exchange rates current at the time of the assessment.
The existence of an active market for intermediate Non-current assets excluding goodwill that have suffered impairment are reviewed whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the impairment products is also monitored and separate cash-generating units are identified even if the majority of those products are further processed internally and therefore loss may no longer exist, or may have decreased.
If appropriate an impairment reversal will be recognised.
the cash flows are not independent.
An onerous contract is defined under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets as a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting In some cases, individual business units consist of several operations with independent cash-generating streams, which constitute separate cash-generating units.
the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
However, no provision is required provided that the assets dedicated to the contract, which may be the wider cash-generating unit of which the business unit forms part, are not fully impaired.
j Determination of ore reserve estimates When an impairment review is undertaken, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the higher of value in use being the net present value of expected The Group estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the Australasian future cash flows of the relevant cash-generating unit in its current condition and fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD.
Code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2012 the JORC code.
Reserves and, for certain mines, other mineral resources determined in this way are used in the calculation of depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges and for forecasting the timing of the payment When the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit has been measured by reference to FVLCD, this amount has been further classified in accordance with the of close-down and restoration costs and environmental costs.
fair value hierarchy for observable market data that is consistent with the unit of account for the cash-generating unit being tested.
When FVLCD is based The depreciation and impairment policy above notes instances in which mineral resources are taken into account for accounting purposes.
In addition, value may on quoted prices for equity instruments but adjusted to reflect factors such as a lack of liquidity in the market, the recoverable amount is classified as level 2 in the be attributed to mineral resources in purchase price allocations undertaken for the purposes of business combination accounting.
No cash-generating units are currently assessed for impairment by reference to a recoverable amount based on FVLCD classified as level 2. k Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations Where unobservable inputs are material to the measurement of the recoverable amount, FVLCD is based on the best information available to reflect the amount The Group has provisions for close-down and restoration costs which include the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure and the removal of residual materials the Group could receive for the cash-generating unit in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
This is often estimated using and remediation of disturbed areas for the mines and certain refineries and smelters.
discounted cash flow techniques and is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
Close-down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining or production, and the majority of close-down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the Where the recoverable amount is assessed using FVLCD based on discounted cash flow techniques, the resulting estimates are based on detailed life-of-mine end of the life of the mine, refinery or smelter.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their costs based on feasibility and or production plans.
and engineering studies using current restoration standards and techniques.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Close-down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting period when the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs, based on the net present value of estimated future costs with, where appropriate, probability weighting of the different remediation, closure or other activities required to achieve relinquishment.
This may occur during development or during the production phase of a facility.
Provisions for close-down and restoration costs do not include any additional obligations which are expected to arise from future disturbance.
The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan, and are updated annually during the life of the operation to reflect known developments, eg revisions to cost estimates and to the estimated lives of operations.
The estimates are subject to formal review at regular intervals.
The initial close-down and restoration provision is capitalised within Property, plant and equipment.
Subsequent movements in the close-down and restoration provisions, including those resulting from new disturbance, updated cost estimates, changes to the estimated lives of operations and revisions to discount rates are also capitalised within Property, plant and equipment.
These costs are then depreciated over the lives of the assets to which they relate.
The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting period.
The amortisation of the discount is shown within Finance items in the income statement.
Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the estimated outstanding continuous rehabilitation work at each statement of financial position date and the cost is charged to the income statement.
Environmental costs result from environmental damage that was not a necessary consequence of operations, and may include remediation, compensation and penalties.
Provision is made for the estimated present value of such costs at the statement of financial position date.
These costs are charged to Net operating costs, except for the unwinding of the discount which is shown within Finance items.
Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs become known, but can continue for many years depending on the nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques used.
l Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, primarily on a weighted average cost basis.
Average costs are calculated by reference to the cost levels experienced in the relevant month together with those in opening inventory.
The cost of raw materials and consumable stores is the purchase price.
The cost of partly-processed and saleable products is generally the cost of production, including: labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore and the production of alumina and aluminium: the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore and the production of alumina and aluminium: and production overheads.
Work in progress includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed material.
Stockpiles represent ore that has been extracted and is available for further processing.
If there is significant uncertainty as to when the stockpiled ore will be processed, the ore is expensed as mined.
Where the future processing of this ore can be predicted with confidence, eg because it exceeds the mines cut-off grade, it is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
If the ore will not be processed within the 12 months after the statement of financial position date, it is included within non-current assets and net realisable value is calculated on a discounted cash flow basis.
Quantities of stockpiled ore are assessed primarily through surveys and assays.
m Taxation Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
It includes adjustments for tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its income tax base which may be nil.
Even where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred tax provision for the mining rights because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use of the rights and not from disposal.
n Post-employment benefits The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans which provide lump sums, pensions, medical benefits and life insurance to retirees.
For post-retirement defined benefit plans, the difference between the fair value of any plan assets and the present value of the plan obligations is recognised as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position.
Where appropriate, the recognition of assets may be restricted to the present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income and comprise the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments due to differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
In particular, the difference between the interest income and the actual return on plan assets is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit, which include the current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailment or settlements, are recognised in the income statement.
The interest cost less interest income on assets held in the plans is also charged to the income statement.
All amounts charged to the income statement in respect of these plans are included within Net operating costs or in Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units as appropriate.
The most significant assumptions used in accounting for pension plans are the discount rate, the inflation assumption and the mortality assumptions.
The discount rate is used to determine the net present value of the obligations, the interest cost on the obligations and the interest income on plan assets.
The discount rate used is the yield on high-quality corporate bonds with maturities and terms that match those of the post-retirement obligations as closely as possible.
Where there is no developed corporate bond market in a country, the rate on government bonds is used.
Each period, the resulting interest cost, net of the interest income on assets 126 126 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued is charged to the Groups income statement as the interest cost in each accounting period.
The inflation assumption is used to project increases in future benefit 1 Principal accounting policies continued payments for those plans that have benefits linked to inflation.
The mortality assumption is used to project the future stream of benefit payments, which is then Close-down and restoration costs are provided for in the accounting period when the obligation arising from the related disturbance occurs, based on the net discounted to arrive at the net present value of the obligations.
present value of estimated future costs with, where appropriate, probability weighting of the different remediation, closure or other activities required to achieve relinquishment.
Valuations of the obligations are carried out using the projected unit method which values benefits accrued at the valuation date with allowance where appropriate for future increases to pay and pensions.
The costs are estimated on the basis of a closure plan, and are updated annually during the life of the operation to reflect known developments, eg revisions to cost estimates The values of the obligations are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
and to the estimated lives of operations.
The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
Subsequent movements in the close-down and restoration o Cash and cash equivalents provisions, including those resulting from new disturbance, updated cost estimates, changes to the estimated lives of operations and revisions to discount rates are also capitalised within Property, plant and equipment.
For the purposes of the statement of financial position, cash and cash equivalents comprise: cash on hand, deposits held on call with banks, and short-term, highlyliquid investments that are readily convertible into known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
For the purposes of the The amortisation or unwinding of the discount applied in establishing the net present value of provisions is charged to the income statement in each accounting cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are net of bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand.
Bank overdrafts are shown as current liabilities in the period.
Where rehabilitation is conducted systematically over the life of the operation, rather than at the time of closure, provision is made for the estimated outstanding p Financial instruments continuous rehabilitation work at each statement of financial position date and the cost is charged to the income statement.
i Financial assets Environmental costs result from environmental damage that was not a necessary consequence of operations, and may include remediation, compensation and Classification penalties.
These costs are charged to Net operating The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, available-for-sale and held to maturity costs, except for the unwinding of the discount which is shown within Finance items.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
The Groups policy with regard to financial risk management is set out in note 30.
Generally, the Group does not acquire financial assets for the purpose of selling in the short term.
When the Group enters into derivative contracts Remediation procedures may commence soon after the time the disturbance, remediation process and estimated remediation costs become known, but can these transactions are designed to reduce exposures related to assets and liabilities, firm commitments or anticipated transactions.
continue for many years depending on the nature of the disturbance and the remediation techniques used.
Management determines the classification of financial assets at initial recognition.
Average costs are calculated by reference to the cost a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss levels experienced in the relevant month together with those in opening inventory.
The cost Derivatives, including embedded derivatives separated from the host contracts are included within financial assets at fair value through profit or loss unless they are of partly-processed and saleable products is generally the cost of production, including: designated as effective hedging instruments.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
labour costs, materials and contractor expenses which are directly attributable to the extraction and processing of ore and the production of alumina and aluminium: b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables comprise non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Trade receivables are the depreciation of mining properties and leases and of property, plant and equipment used in the extraction and processing of ore and the production included within this category: however, trade receivables subject to provisional pricing are valued as explained in note 1 c Sales revenue.
of alumina and aluminium: and production overheads.
c Held to maturity Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that the Group has the intention and ability Work in progress includes ore stockpiles and other partly processed material.
Assets in this category are classified as Other investments and are classified as current assets or non-current assets based on their maturity.
If the ore will not be processed d Available-for-sale financial assets within the 12 months after the statement of financial position date, it is included within non-current assets and net realisable value is calculated on a discounted Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated as available-for-sale or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the Group intends to dispose of the assets within 12 months of the statement of financial position date or the asset matures within 12 months.
m Taxation Recognition and measurement Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable income for the year calculated using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade-date, being the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
statement of financial position date.
All financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Financial assets carried at fair value Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as mining rights that, in general, are not through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
Financial assets are fide-recognised when the eligible for income tax allowances.
Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its income tax base which may rights to receive cash flows from the assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Even where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred tax Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans and receivables are provision for the mining rights because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use of the rights and not from disposal.
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
n Post-employment benefits Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are marked to market at the statement of financial position date.
Derivatives embedded in host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to their host contracts.
In some cases, the embedded derivatives may be The Group operates a number of defined benefit plans which provide lump sums, pensions, medical benefits and life insurance to retirees.
For post-retirement designated as hedges and accounted for as described above.
defined benefit plans, the difference between the fair value of any plan assets and the present value of the plan obligations is recognised as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
Where relevant market prices are available, these have been used to determine fair values, adjusted where necessary for market liquidity, bid offer spreads Where appropriate, the recognition of assets may be restricted to the present value of any amounts the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan and credit considerations.
In other cases, fair values have been calculated using quotations from independent financial institutions, or by using valuation techniques or reductions in future contributions.
consistent with general market practice applicable to the instrument.
Actuarial gains and losses arising in the year are credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income and comprise the effects of changes in actuarial The fair values of cash, short-term borrowings and loans to joint ventures and associates approximate to their carrying values, as a result of their short maturity or assumptions and experience adjustments due to differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
In particular, the because they carry floating rates of interest.
The fair values of the various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 30.
Movements difference between the interest income and the actual return on plan assets is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
on the hedging reserve are disclosed within note 29.
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit, which include the current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any curtailment or settlements, are Offsetting financial instruments recognised in the income statement.
All amounts charged Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to the income statement in respect of these plans are included within Net operating costs or in Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units as appropriate.
to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Each period, the resulting interest cost, net of the interest income on assets 126 127 127 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
If impairment is identified for a financial asset carried at amortised cost the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the loss is recognised in the income statement.
In the case of equity securities classified as available-for-sale, an evaluation is made as to whether a decline in fair value is significant or prolonged based on an analysis of indicators such as significant adverse changes in the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the company invested in operates.
If such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
ii Financial liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities including trade payables but excluding derivative liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the amounts originally received for borrowings and other financial liabilities net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period to maturity using the effective interest method.
The fair values of medium and long-term borrowings are calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows using quoted prices in active markets or an appropriate market based yield curve.
The carrying value of the borrowings is amortised cost.
Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
iii Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
They are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each statement of financial position date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or of firm commitments fair value hedges or, hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or of a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedges.
Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or firm commitment that is attributable to the hedged risk.
When a fair value interest rate hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a fair value interest rate hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the fair value adjustments which have been made to the hedged item are amortised through the income statement over the remaining life of the hedged item or written off immediately where the hedged item is fide-recognised.
Cash flow hedges: The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss, for example when the forecast sale that is being hedged takes place.
When the forecast transaction that is being hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and adjust the cost of the asset.
The gains and losses are recognised subsequently in the income statement when the non-financial asset is amortised or sold.
When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, although the forecast transaction is still expected to occur, any cumulative gain or loss relating to the instrument which is held in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that is held in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
q Share-based payments The Groups equity-settled share plans are settled either by: the issue of shares by the relevant parent company, the purchase of shares on market, or the use of shares previously acquired as part of a share buy-back.
The fair value of the share plans is recognised as an expense over the expected vesting period with a corresponding entry to retained earnings for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto Limited plans.
If the cost of shares acquired to satisfy the plans exceeds the expense charged, the excess is taken to retained earnings or other reserves as appropriate.
The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any market-based vesting conditions attached to the award.
The Group uses fair values provided by independent actuaries calculated using either a lattice-based option valuation model or a Monte Carlo simulation model.
Non-market-based vesting conditions eg earnings per share targets are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each statement of financial position date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
No adjustment is made after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or not exercised.
The terms of each plan are considered at the statement of financial position date.
The Group no longer operates any plans as cash-settled.
However the Performance Share Plan can, at the discretion of the directors, offer employees an equivalent amount in cash.
This is not standard practice.
In some jurisdictions, employees are granted cash-settled awards where equity-settled awards are prohibited by local laws and regulations.
The value of these awards is immaterial.
Further information about the treatment of individual share-based payment plans is provided in note 44.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued r Share capital 1 Principal accounting policies continued Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issuance of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, Impairment of financial assets from the proceeds.
The Group assesses at each statement of financial position date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
If impairment is identified for a financial asset carried at amortised cost the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and Where any Group company purchases the Groups equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental the loss is recognised in the income statement.
costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
Where such shares are subsequently reissued, any consideration received, net of any  incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
s Segment reporting If such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss, measured as the difference between acquisition cost and the current fair value, Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker CODM.
The CODM, less any impairment loss previously recognised in the income statement is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as Rio Tintos chief executive.
ii Financial liabilities Critical accounting policies and estimates Borrowings and other financial liabilities including trade payables but excluding derivative liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
i Dual listed companies reporting As described in the Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements, the consolidated financial statements of the Rio Tinto Group Any difference between the amounts originally received for borrowings and other financial liabilities net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised deal with the results, assets and liabilities of both of the dual listed companies, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, and their subsidiaries.
Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto in the income statement over the period to maturity using the effective interest method.
Limited are viewed as a single parent company with their respective shareholders being the shareholders in that single company.
The fair values of medium and long-term borrowings are calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows using quoted prices in active markets The 2013 Annual report satisfies the obligations of Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated accounts under Australian company law, as amended by an order or an appropriate market based yield curve.
issued by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission on 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012.
The 2013 financial statements disclose Where an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially the effect of the adjustments to the Groups consolidated profit loss, consolidated total comprehensive income loss and consolidated shareholders funds as modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a fide-recognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the prepared under EU IFRS that would be required under the version of IFRS that is applicable in Australia, referred to as Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
The US dollar is the presentation currency used in these financial statements, as it most reliably reflects the Groups global business performance.
iii Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities ii Acquisitions Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
The determination of the fair values of net identifiable assets acquired, and of any goodwill, involves significant judgment.
This is particularly the case when the They are subsequently re-measured to fair value at each statement of financial position date.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on acquisition involves little or no cash, for example when the Group gains control of a company in stages or for shares.
The allocation of fair value between intangible whether or not the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as assets, and the tangible assets with which they are used, is also judgmental.
The Group engages third-party valuers to advise on the purchase price allocation for either: hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or of firm commitments fair value hedges or, hedges of a particular risk associated with a significant acquisitions.
recognised asset or liability or of a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedges.
iii Impairment review of asset carrying values Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together Events or changes in circumstances can give rise to significant impairment charges or reversals of impairment.
with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or firm commitment that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Estimates in respect of the timing of project expansions and the cost to complete asset construction are critical to determining the recoverable amounts for When a fair value interest rate hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a fair value interest rate hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, cash-generating units.
the fair value adjustments which have been made to the hedged item are amortised through the income statement over the remaining life of the hedged item or written off immediately where the hedged item is fide-recognised.
Where the recoverable amounts of the Groups cash-generating units are assessed by analyses of discounted cash flows, the resulting valuations are also sensitive to changes in estimates of long-term commodity prices, exchange rates, operating costs and discount rates.
Amounts accumulated in equity Note 6 outlines the significant judgments and assumptions made in measuring the impairments recorded and notes 12 and 13 outline judgments in relation to the are recycled in the income statement in the period when the hedged item affects profit or loss, for example when the forecast sale that is being hedged takes testing of cash-generating units containing goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets respectively.
When the forecast transaction that is being hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are iv Estimation of asset lives and determination of ore reserve and mineral resource estimates transferred from equity and adjust the cost of the asset.
The gains and losses are recognised subsequently in the income statement when the non-financial asset Intangible assets are considered to have indefinite lives when, based on an analysis of all of the relevant factors, there is no foreseeable limit to the period over is amortised or sold.
which the asset is expected to generate cash flows for the Group.
The factors considered in making this determination include the existence of contractual rights When a cash flow hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a cash flow hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, although the forecast for unlimited terms: or evidence that renewal of the contractual rights without significant incremental cost can be expected for indefinite periods into the future in transaction is still expected to occur, any cumulative gain or loss relating to the instrument which is held in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised view of the Groups investment intentions.
when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain Rio Tinto estimates its ore reserves and mineral resources based on information compiled by Competent Persons as defined in accordance with the Australasian or loss that is held in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
code for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December 2012 the JORC code.
The amounts presented under EU IFRS and AAS are based on the ore reserves, and in some cases mineral resources, determined under the JORC code.
q Share-based payments The Groups equity-settled share plans are settled either by: the issue of shares by the relevant parent company, the purchase of shares on market, or the use The estimation of ore reserves and mineral resources requires judgment to interpret available geological data and then to select an appropriate mining method and of shares previously acquired as part of a share buy-back.
The fair value of the share plans is recognised as an expense over the expected vesting period with a establish an extraction schedule.
It also requires assumptions about future commodity prices, exchange rates, production costs, recovery rates and discount rates corresponding entry to retained earnings for Rio Tinto plc plans and to other reserves for Rio Tinto Limited plans.
and, in some instances, the renewal of mining licenses.
There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore reserves and mineral resources: consequently assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation The fair value of the share plans is determined at the date of grant, taking into account any market-based vesting conditions attached to the award.
may change significantly when new information becomes available.
New geological data, as well as changes in the above assumptions, may change the economic status of ore reserves and mineral resources, and may ultimately result in their restatement.
Such changes in ore reserves and, in some cases mineral resources, could have an impact on: depreciation and amortisation rates: the Non-market-based vesting conditions eg earnings per share targets are taken into account in estimating the number of awards likely to vest.
The estimate of the carrying values of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: deferred stripping calculations: and provisions for close-down and restoration costs.
number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each statement of financial position date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual awards issued.
v Close-down, restoration and environmental obligations Provision is made for close-down, restoration and environmental costs when the obligation occurs, based on the net present value of estimated future costs with, The terms of each plan are considered at the statement of financial position date.
However the Performance where appropriate, probability weighting of the different remediation, closure or other activities required to achieve relinquishment.
The ultimate cost of close-down Share Plan can, at the discretion of the directors, offer employees an equivalent amount in cash.
In some jurisdictions, employees are and restoration is uncertain and management uses its judgment and experience to provide for these costs over the life of the operations.
Cost estimates can vary in granted cash-settled awards where equity-settled awards are prohibited by local laws and regulations.
Further information response to many factors including: changes to the relevant legal or local national government ownership requirements or the Groups closure and environmental about the treatment of individual share-based payment plans is provided in note 44. policies: review of remediation and relinquishment options: the emergence of new restoration techniques: the timing of the expenditures and the effects of inflation.
Experience gained at other mine or production sites is also a significant consideration.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Cost estimates are updated throughout the life of the operation.
The accuracy range for operations with a remaining life of ten to 40 years is -30 per cent.
For operations with a remaining life of five to ten years, the accuracy range is -20 per cent.
Five years prior to the estimated date of closure, operations must produce a full decommissioning plan with an accuracy range of -15 per cent.
The expected timing of expenditure included in cost estimates can also change, for example in response to changes to expectations relating to ore reserves and resources, production rates, operating licence or economic conditions.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an extended period of time depending on the specific site requirements.
Some expenditure can continue into perpetuity.
Cash flows must be discounted if this has a material effect.
The selection of appropriate sources on which to base the calculation of the risk-free discount rate used for such obligations also requires judgment.
As a result of all of the above factors, there could be significant adjustments to the provision for close-down, restoration and environmental costs which would affect future financial results.
Increases and decreases in environmental obligations are charged directly to the income statement.
Increases and decreases in close-down obligations are capitalised for operating businesses.
An increase in close-down and restoration provisions would increase the unwind of the discount and depreciation charges in the income statement in future years and increase the carrying value of property, plant and equipment potentially impacting any future impairment charges or reversals.
vi Deferral of stripping costs Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production phase of a surface mine or pit.
The identification of components within a mine and of life of component strip ratios is a function of an individual mines design.
Changes to that design may introduce new components and or change the life of component strip ratios.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on ore reserves may also have an impact on the life of component ratios even if they do not affect the mines design.
Changes to the life of component ratios are accounted for prospectively.
The Groups determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations determines whether initial stripping of a pit is deemed to be pre-production or production phase stripping and therefore the accounting treatment of those costs.
The determination depends on each mines specific circumstances and the analysis requires judgment: another mining company could make a different determination even where the fact pattern appears to be similar.
At 31 December 2013, the net book value of capitalised production phase stripping costs totalled US$1.3 billion, with US$0.9 billion within Property, plant and equipment and a further US$0.4 billion within Investments in Equity Accounted Units 2012 total of US$1.5 billion with US$1.2 billion in Property, plant and equipment and a further US$0.3 billion within Investment in Equity Accounted Units.
The main movements in capitalised production phase stripping costs during 2013 were capitalisation of US$0.5 billion primarily related to the push-backs of the pit walls at Kennecott Utah Copper KUC and Escondida, a transfer of US$0.2 billion to assets held for sale relating to Clermont and a US$0.4 billion write off relating to KUC as a result of the pit wall slide in April.
vii Recognition of deferred tax liabilities on mining rights recognised in acquisitions Deferred tax is provided in respect of fair value adjustments on acquisitions.
Even where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred tax liability for the mining rights because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use of the rights and not from disposal.
For acquisitions after 1 January 2004, such a deferred tax liability on acquisition results in a consequential increase in the amounts attributed to goodwill.
For acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004, such deferred tax was recognised in equity on transition to EU IFRS.
Amounts attributed to goodwill for business combinations in 2012 and 2013 are shown in note 37. viii Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs and other costs prior to the decision to mine construct Under the Groups accounting policy, exploration expenditure is not capitalised.
Evaluation expenditure is capitalised when there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable and therefore it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
A projects commercial viability is determined based on whether it will provide a satisfactory return relative to the perceived risks of the project.
Once a projects commercial viability has been established, the Group will decide, at the appropriate authorisation level, whether to approve the decision to mine.
The appropriate authorisation level within the Group is the Rio Tinto Investment Committee and the board where appropriate.
In determining whether to approve a project, the Investment Committee reviews the ore reserves estimate together with analyses regarding the net present value of the project and sensitivity analyses around key assumptions.
There are occasions when the Group concludes that the asset recognition criteria are met at an earlier stage than approval to mine.
In these cases, evaluation expenditure is capitalised if there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine the project is commercially viable.
The Groups view is that a high degree of confidence is greater than more likely than not that is greater than 50 per cent certainty and less than virtually certain that is less than 90 per cent certainty.
Determining whether there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that an evaluation project is commercially viable requires a significant degree of judgment and assessment of all relevant factors such as the nature and objective of the project: the projects current stage: project timeline: current estimates of the projects net present value including sensitivity analyses around key assumptions: and the main risks of the project.
Development expenditure incurred prior to the decision to mine is subject to the same criteria for capitalisation, being a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable.
In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources, the criteria for the capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs is applied consistently from period to period.
Subsequent recovery of the resulting carrying value depends on successful development or sale of the undeveloped project.
If a project does not prove viable, all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment provisions are charged to the income statement.
At 31 December 2013, a total of US$2.3 billion had been capitalised comprising: evaluation costs US$1.9 billion and US$0.4 billion of early works expenditure within property, plant and equipment 31 December 2012: a total of US$2.1 billion.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued ix Identification of functional currencies 1 Principal accounting policies continued The functional currency for each entity in the Group, and for equity accounted units, is the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Cost estimates are updated throughout the life of the operation.
Determination of functional currency involves significant judgment and other mining companies may make different judgments based on similar facts.
For many For operations with a remaining life of five to ten years, the accuracy range is -20 per cent.
Five years prior to the estimated date of closure, operations must of Rio Tintos entities, their functional currency is the currency of the country in which they operate.
The Group reconsiders the functional currency of its entities produce a full decommissioning plan with an accuracy range of -15 per cent.
if there is a change in the underlying transactions, events and conditions which determine their primary economic environment.
The expected timing of expenditure included in cost estimates can also change, for example in response to changes to expectations relating to ore reserves and The determination of functional currency affects the carrying value of non-current assets included in the statement of financial position and, as a consequence, resources, production rates, operating licence or economic conditions.
Expenditure may occur before and after closure and can continue for an extended period the amortisation of those assets included in the income statement.
It also impacts exchange gains and losses included in the income statement and in equity.
of time depending on the specific site requirements.
x Estimation of obligations for post-employment costs Cash flows must be discounted if this has a material effect.
The selection of appropriate sources on which to base the calculation of the risk-free discount rate used The value of the Groups obligations for post-retirement benefits is dependent on the amount of benefits to be paid out and is discounted to the balance sheet date.
for such obligations also requires judgment.
This amount will vary depending on the assumptions made about the future pay increases received by members of final pay plans, the level of inflation for those As a result of all of the above factors, there could be significant adjustments to the provision for close-down, restoration and environmental costs which would affect benefits that are subject to some form of inflation protection, the number of individuals and how long individuals live in retirement.
Plan assets are measured at future financial results.
Increases and decreases in close-down fair value, which is the price that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
obligations are capitalised for operating businesses.
An increase in close-down and restoration provisions would increase the unwind of the discount and depreciation Most of the Groups defined benefit pension plans are closed to new entrants and the majority of the obligations relate to former employees.
As a consequence, charges in the income statement in future years and increase the carrying value of property, plant and equipment potentially impacting any future impairment the carrying value of the Groups post-retirement obligations is less sensitive to assumptions about future salary increases than it is to assumptions regarding future charges or reversals.
The assumption regarding future inflation is based on market yields on inflation-linked instruments where possible, combined with consensus views on vi Deferral of stripping costs future inflation, and is derived using the same process at each reporting date.
Changes to the assumption therefore reflect changes to the market and consensus Stripping of waste materials takes place throughout the production phase of a surface mine or pit.
The identification of components within a mine and of life of views of future inflation.
component strip ratios is a function of an individual mines design.
Changes to that design may introduce new components and or change the life of component The Group reviews the actual mortality rates of retirees in its major pension plans on a regular basis and uses these rates to set its current mortality assumptions.
Changes in other technical or economic parameters that impact on ore reserves may also have an impact on the life of component ratios even if they It also allows for future improvements in mortality having regard to standard improvement scales in each country.
do not affect the mines design.
The discount rate used to value post-retirement obligations is based upon the yields on high quality corporate bonds in the relevant currency and which have The Groups determination of whether multiple pit mines are considered separate or integrated operations determines whether initial stripping of a pit is deemed durations consistent with the nature of the obligations.
The discount rate will vary from one period to another in line with movements in corporate bond yields, to be pre-production or production phase stripping and therefore the accounting treatment of those costs.
The determination depends on each mines specific but at any given measurement date there is relatively little estimation uncertainty.
This rate is also used to calculate the interest cost on obligations and interest circumstances and the analysis requires judgment: another mining company could make a different determination even where the fact pattern appears to be similar.
At 31 December 2013, the net book value of capitalised production phase stripping costs totalled US$1.3 billion, with US$0.9 billion within Property, plant and Details of the key assumptions, how they have moved since the previous statement of financial position date and the sensitivity of the carrying value to changes equipment and a further US$0.4 billion within Investments in Equity Accounted Units 2012 total of US$1.5 billion with US$1.2 billion in Property, plant and in the assumptions, are set out in note 45. equipment and a further US$0.3 billion within Investment in Equity Accounted Units.
For 2013, the charge against income for post-retirement benefits net of tax and non-controlling interests was US$558 million.
This charge included both pension The main movements in capitalised production phase stripping costs during 2013 were capitalisation of US$0.5 billion primarily related to the push-backs of and post-retirement healthcare benefits.
The charge is net of interest income of US$410 million after tax and non-controlling interests.
the pit walls at Kennecott Utah Copper KUC and Escondida, a transfer of US$0.2 billion to assets held for sale relating to Clermont and a US$0.4 billion write off relating to KUC as a result of the pit wall slide in April.
The average future increase in compensation levels was assumed to be 3.4 per cent in 2013 and will be 3.6 per cent for 2014.
The average discount rate used was 3.9 per cent in 2013 and will be 4.4 per cent in 2014 reflecting the net impact of changes in corporate bond yields in the regions where the Group has vii Recognition of deferred tax liabilities on mining rights recognised in acquisitions pension obligations.
Provision for deferred tax is based on the difference between the carrying value of the asset and its income tax base which Based on the known changes in assumptions noted above and other expected circumstances, the expected impact of post-retirement costs on the Groups may be nil.
Even where there is no income tax base, the existence of a tax base for capital gains tax purposes is not taken into account in determining the deferred EU IFRS net earnings in 2014 would be US$93 million less than in 2013.
The actual charge may be impacted by other factors that cannot be predicted, such tax liability for the mining rights because it is expected that the carrying amount will be recovered primarily through use of the rights and not from disposal.
For as the effect of changes in benefits, number of employees and exchange rates.
acquisitions after 1 January 2004, such a deferred tax liability on acquisition results in a consequential increase in the amounts attributed to goodwill.
For acquisitions The table below sets out the potential change in the Groups 2013 net earnings after tax and non-controlling interests that would result from hypothetical changes prior to 1 January 2004, such deferred tax was recognised in equity on transition to EU IFRS.
Amounts attributed to goodwill for business combinations in 2012 and to post-retirement assumptions and estimates.
The sensitivities are viewed for each assumption in isolation although a change in one assumption is likely to result 2013 are shown in note 37. in some offset elsewhere.
The figures in the table only show the impact on underlying and net earnings.
Changing the assumptions would also have an impact on viii Capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs and other costs prior to the decision to mine construct the statement of financial position.
Under the Groups accounting policy, exploration expenditure is not capitalised.
Evaluation expenditure is capitalised when there is a high degree of confidence US$ million that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable and therefore it is considered probable that future economic benefits will flow to the Group.
Sensitivity of the Groups 2013 underlying and net earnings to changes in: A projects commercial viability is determined based on whether it will provide a satisfactory return relative to the perceived risks of the project.
Once a projects Discount rate commercial viability has been established, the Group will decide, at the appropriate authorisation level, whether to approve the decision to mine.
The appropriate increase of 0.5 percentage points 38 authorisation level within the Group is the Rio Tinto Investment Committee and the board where appropriate.
In determining whether to approve a project, the decrease of 0.5 percentage points 33 Investment Committee reviews the ore reserves estimate together with analyses regarding the net present value of the project and sensitivity analyses around Inflation key assumptions.
increase of 0.5 percentage points 34 There are occasions when the Group concludes that the asset recognition criteria are met at an earlier stage than approval to mine.
In these cases, evaluation decrease of 0.5 percentage points 32 expenditure is capitalised if there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine the project is commercially viable.
The Groups view is that a high Salary increases degree of confidence is greater than more likely than not that is greater than 50 per cent certainty and less than virtually certain that is less than 90 per cent increase of 0.5 percentage points 10 certainty.
Determining whether there is a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that an evaluation project is commercially viable requires a decrease of 0.5 percentage points 10 significant degree of judgment and assessment of all relevant factors such as the nature and objective of the project: the projects current stage: project timeline: Demographic allowance for additional future mortality improvements current estimates of the projects net present value including sensitivity analyses around key assumptions: and the main risks of the project.
Development participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year older 15 expenditure incurred prior to the decision to mine is subject to the same criteria for capitalisation, being a high degree of confidence that the Group will determine that a project is commercially viable.
participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 15 In accordance with IFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources, the criteria for the capitalisation of exploration and evaluation costs is applied xi Recoverability of potential deferred tax assets consistently from period to period.
The Group has tax losses, and other deductible temporary differences, mainly in UK, French, Canadian, US and Australian taxable entities that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
Deferred tax assets have been recognised to the extent that their recovery is probable, having regard to the projected future Subsequent recovery of the resulting carrying value depends on successful development or sale of the undeveloped project.
If a project does not prove viable, taxable income of these taxable entities and after taking account of specific risk factors that affect the recovery of these assets.
all irrecoverable costs associated with the project net of any related impairment provisions are charged to the income statement.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Recognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets are shown in the table below and totalled US$17,755 million at 31 December 2013 2012: US$18,630 million.
Of this total, US$3,555 million has been recognised as deferred tax assets 2012: US$3,476 million, leaving US$14,200 million 2012: US$15,154 million unrecognised, as recovery is not considered probable.
The recognised amounts do not include deferred tax assets that have been offset against recognised deferred tax liabilities.
b The recognised and unrecognised amounts include temporary differences that are deductible for the purposes of Mineral Resources Rent Tax MRRT.
xii Contingencies Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility of any loss arising is considered remote.
Contingencies are disclosed in note 31. xiii Basis of consolidation Judgment is sometimes required to determine whether the Group has control, joint control or significant influence over an entity.
These judgments are set out in notes 33 to 36.
In some cases, the Group makes acquisitions over a period of days, weeks or months.
It is a matter of judgment as to whether the payments made during this period form part of one transaction or a number of separate transactions.
In the latter case, the transactions will be treated as an acquisition in stages.
The effect on the financial statements of treatment as an acquisition in stages is that any excess of consideration over identifiable net assets for transactions after control has been gained will be recorded as a reduction in equity.
If the transactions were treated as one acquisition then all such excess consideration would be treated as goodwill.
In addition, acquisitions of shares after the date on which control is gained and which are accounted for as an acquisition in stages are shown within Financing activities in the cash flow statement rather than in Investing activities.
Factors which are considered in this judgment are the length of time between the acquisition date and completion of the transaction and whether, at the time of the initial share purchase, it was clear what percentage ownership would ultimately be obtained.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued 2 Operating segments Recognised and unrecognised deferred tax assets are shown in the table below and totalled US$17,755 million at 31 December 2013 2012: US$18,630 million.
Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 Of this total, US$3,555 million has been recognised as deferred tax assets 2012: US$3,476 million, leaving US$14,200 million 2012: US$15,154 million a Gross sales revenue US$m US$m US$m unrecognised, as recovery is not considered probable.
Iron Ore 25,994 24,279 29,475 The recognised amounts do not include deferred tax assets that have been offset against recognised deferred tax liabilities.
b Depreciation and amortisation xii Contingencies Iron Ore 1,627 1,485 1,168 Disclosure is made of material contingent liabilities unless the possibility of any loss arising is considered remote.
Contingencies are disclosed in note 31.
Aluminium 1,151 1,287 1,388 xiii Basis of consolidation Copper 962 794 573 Judgment is sometimes required to determine whether the Group has control, joint control or significant influence over an entity.
These judgments are set out Energy 766 770 520 in notes 33 to 36.
Diamonds & Minerals 513 421 367 In some cases, the Group makes acquisitions over a period of days, weeks or months.
It is a matter of judgment as to whether the payments made during this Other operations 67 214 245 period form part of one transaction or a number of separate transactions.
The effect Reportable segments total 5,086 4,971 4,261 on the financial statements of treatment as an acquisition in stages is that any excess of consideration over identifiable net assets for transactions after control Other items 106 113 114 has been gained will be recorded as a reduction in equity.
If the transactions were treated as one acquisition then all such excess consideration would be treated Less: depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units 401 460 403 as goodwill.
In addition, acquisitions of shares after the date on which control is gained and which are accounted for as an acquisition in stages are shown within Depreciation and amortisation per note 4 4,791 4,624 3,972 Financing activities in the cash flow statement rather than in Investing activities.
c Factors which are considered in this judgment are the length of time between the acquisition date and completion of the transaction and whether, at the time Underlying earnings of the initial share purchase, it was clear what percentage ownership would ultimately be obtained.
Iron Ore 9,858 9,247 13,268 Aluminium 557 54 610 Copper 821 1,059 2,013 Energy 33 309 1,114 Diamonds & Minerals 350 149 159 Other operations 281 582 288 Reportable segments total 11,338 10,236 16,558 Inter-segment transactions 4 8 40 Other items 730 750 684 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 145 97 102 Net finance costs 242 112 240 Underlying earnings 10,217 9,269 15,572 d Items excluded from Underlying earnings 6,552 12,297 9,737 Net earnings loss attributable to owners of Rio Tinto per income statement 3,665 3,028 5,835 Tax charge Iron Ore 5,290 4,273 5,942 Aluminium 18 205 187 Copper 236 67 651 Energy 12 8 531 Diamonds & Minerals 177 84 30 Other Operations 227 235 149 Reportable segments total 5,470 3,858 7,192 Other items 302 266 419 Exploration and evaluation not attributed to product groups 23 26 28 Net finance costs 77 81 138 5,068 3,485 6,607 d Tax credit excluded from Underlying earnings 2,642 2,896 135 Tax charge per income statement 2,426 589 6,472 132 133 133 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 2 Operating segments continued Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Capital expenditure Iron Ore 6,814 7,152 4,004 Aluminium 2,226 2,755 2,292 Copper 2,813 4,455 3,925 Energy 732 1,877 1,415 Diamonds & Minerals 1,009 1,814 1,392 Other Operations 278 432 394 Reportable segments total 13,872 18,485 13,422 Other items 145 161 260 Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units 1,073 1,071 1,146 Capital expenditure per Financial information by business units 12,944 17,575 12,536 Add: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 57 40 37 Capital expenditure per statement of cash flow 13,001 17,615 12,573 Rio Tintos management structure is based on the principal product groups shown above together with the global functions that support the business.
The chief executive of each product group reports to the chief executive of Rio Tinto.
The chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the performance of each product group based on a number of measures including capital expenditure and operating cash flows, with Underlying earnings being the key financial performance indicator.
Finance costs and net debt are managed on a Group basis.
Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product.
The Energy product group includes both coal and uranium businesses.
The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes businesses with products such as borates, salt and titanium dioxide feedstock together with diamond operations and the Simandou iron ore project, which is the responsibility of the Diamonds & Minerals product group chief executive.
The Copper group includes certain gold operations in addition to copper.
The financial information by business unit provided on page 197 of these financial statements provide additional voluntary disclosure which the Group considers useful to the users of the financial statements.
a Gross sales revenue Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries of US$3,757 million 2012: US$5,067 million, 2011: US$5,239 million in addition to consolidated sales revenue.
Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiary sales of US$353 million 2012: US$412 million, 2011: US$470 million to equity accounted units which are not included in gross sales revenue.
Intersegment transactions relate to sales between the Aluminium Product Group and Constellium formerly Alcan Engineered Products and Other Aluminium operations whose results are reported within Other operations.
b Depreciation and amortisation Product group depreciation and amortisation totals include 100 per cent of subsidiaries depreciation and amortisation and include Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units.
Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity accounted units is deducted to arrive at depreciation and amortisation excluding equity accounted units as shown in note 4.
These figures exclude impairment charges, which are excluded from Underlying earnings.
c Underlying earnings Underlying earnings is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations and to enhance comparability of reporting periods.
The measure of Underlying earnings is used by the chief executive of Rio Tinto to assess the performance of the product groups.
Underlying earnings and net earnings both represent amounts net of tax attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
The following items are excluded from Net earnings in arriving at Underlying earnings each period irrespective of materiality: Profits less losses on acquisitions disposal of interests in businesses.
Profit loss after tax from discontinued operations.
Exchange and derivative gains and losses.
This exclusion includes Exchange gains losses on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances, gains and losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting and gains losses on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting.
In addition, there is a final judgemental category which includes, where applicable, other credits and charges that, individually or in aggregate if of a similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business performance.
Product group earnings include earnings of subsidiaries and equity accounted units stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Rio Tintos share of the Underlying earnings of equity accounted units amount to US$747 million in 2013 2012: US$1,061 million: 2011: US$945 million.
2 Operating segments continued This amount is attributable as follows: US$777 million profit to the Copper group and US$30 million loss to other product groups 2012: US$799 million profit Restated Restated attributable to the Copper product group and US$262 million profit to other product groups: 2011: US$699 million profit attributable to the Copper product group 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m and US$246 million profit to other product groups.
These amounts are included in Underlying earnings of the relevant product groups and include the Underlying Capital expenditure earnings of the Groups tolling entities which process alumina.
Tolling entities recharge the majority of their costs and generally have minimal earnings.
Iron Ore 6,814 7,152 4,004 The copper product groups underlying earnings in 2013 included US$131 million impairment after tax in relation to the groups investment in Northern Dynasty Aluminium 2,226 2,755 2,292 Minerals Ltd following a strategic review of this shareholding by the group.
Copper 2,813 4,455 3,925 The Energy product groups Underlying earnings in 2012 included US$258 million profit after tax in relation to the divestments of equity interest in Extract Resources Energy 732 1,877 1,415 and Kalahari Minerals.
Diamonds & Minerals 1,009 1,814 1,392 Other Operations 278 432 394 d Reconciliation of net earnings losses to Underlying earnings Reportable segments total 13,872 18,485 13,422 Noncontrolling Restated Restated Other items 145 161 260 k Pre-tax Taxation interests Net amount Net amount Net amount Less: capital expenditure of equity accounted units 1,073 1,071 1,146 2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 2011 Capital expenditure per Financial information by business units 12,944 17,575 12,536 Exclusions from Underlying earnings US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Add: Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 57 40 37 Impairment charges net of reversals note 6 7,531 1,547 2,556 3,428 14,360 9,290 e Net gains on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses 787 18 42 847 827 167 Capital expenditure per statement of cash flow 13,001 17,615 12,573 Exchange and derivative losses gains: Rio Tintos management structure is based on the principal product groups shown above together with the global functions that support the business.
The chief Exchange losses gains on US dollar net debt and intragroup executive of each product group reports to the chief executive of Rio Tinto.
The chief executive of Rio Tinto monitors the performance of each product group based balances 3,674 795 50 2,929 425 157 on a number of measures including capital expenditure and operating cash flows, with Underlying earnings being the key financial performance indicator.
Finance Gains losses on currency and interest rate derivatives not costs and net debt are managed on a Group basis.
qualifying for hedge accounting 30 16 12 2 59 20 Generally, business units are allocated to product groups based on their primary product.
Gains on commodity derivatives not qualifying for hedge The Diamonds & Minerals product group includes businesses with products such as borates, salt and titanium dioxide feedstock together with diamond operations accounting 282 86 196 66 109 and the Simandou iron ore project, which is the responsibility of the Diamonds & Minerals product group chief executive.
The Copper group includes certain gold Restructuring costs including global headcount reductions 502 126 9 367 77 operations in addition to copper.
f Kennecott Utah Copper 437 154 283 g The financial information by business unit provided on page 197 of these financial statements provide additional voluntary disclosure which the Group considers Clermont Blair Athol 252 79 173 h useful to the users of the financial statements.
MRRT 1,130 i Deferred tax asset write off 114 114 134 342 a Gross sales revenue j Other exclusions 443 139 1 303 233 204 Gross sales revenue includes the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries of US$3,757 million 2012: US$5,067 million, Total excluded from Underlying earnings 11,740 2,642 2,546 6,552 12,297 9,737 2011: US$5,239 million in addition to consolidated sales revenue.
Consolidated sales revenue includes subsidiary sales of US$353 million 2012: US$412 million, Net earnings losses 3,505 2,426 2,586 3,665 3,028 5,835 2011: US$470 million to equity accounted units which are not included in gross sales revenue.
Underlying earnings 15,245 5,068 40 10,217 9,269 15,572 Intersegment transactions relate to sales between the Aluminium Product Group and Constellium formerly Alcan Engineered Products and Other Aluminium e Net gains on disposal and consolidation of interests in businesses during 2013 mainly relate to the Groups divestment of its remaining interest in Constellium formerly Alcan operations whose results are reported within Other operations.
Engineering Products, and the Northparkes mine.
Net gains arising on the consolidation and disposal of interests in businesses for the year ended 31 December 2012 relate principally to consolidation of Richards Bay Minerals RBM b Depreciation and amortisation and Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited, and in 2011 principally to the divestment of the Groups talc business.
Refer to note 37 for additional information.
Product group depreciation and amortisation totals include 100 per cent of subsidiaries depreciation and amortisation and include Rio Tintos share of the f Kennecott Utah Copper, Bingham Canyon mine experienced a slide along a geological fault line of its north-eastern wall on 10 April 2013.
Charges relating to the slide, which have been depreciation and amortisation of equity accounted units.
Rio Tintos share of the depreciation and amortisation charge of equity accounted units is deducted to excluded from underlying earnings, primarily comprise the write off of certain deferred stripping assets and damaged equipment.
Adjustments for settlement of insurance claims have arrive at depreciation and amortisation excluding equity accounted units as shown in note 4.
These figures exclude impairment charges, which are excluded from been made to the amount excluded from underlying earnings, and will continue as insurance claims are settled.
g Adjustments in relation to Clermont and Blair Athol arose following reclassification to disposal groups held for sale, and reflect contractual obligations for product sales and funding of closure activities, which will remain with the Group following completion of the divestments.
Further adjustments in respect of these obligations will be combined with the net gain loss c Underlying earnings on disposal expected to be recognised in 2014.
Underlying earnings is reported by Rio Tinto to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of its operations and to enhance comparability h A deferred tax asset was recognised following the introduction of the Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT on 1 July 2012. of reporting periods.
i Deferred tax assets were written off as a result of restrictions on the utilisation of French losses introduced in 2011, to eliminate the increase in deferred tax assets following the impairment of French aluminium assets in 2012 and 2013.
Underlying earnings and net j Other credits and charges that, individually, or in aggregate, if of similar type, are of a nature or size to require exclusion in order to provide additional insight into underlying business earnings both represent amounts net of tax attributable to owners of Rio Tinto.
The following items are excluded from Net earnings in arriving at Underlying earnings performance.
In 2013, other exclusions include adjustments relating to inventory sold by RBM during the period, which had been recognised at fair value on initial consolidation in 2012. each period irrespective of materiality: k Exclusions from underlying earnings relating to equity accounted units, after tax, are included in the column Pre-tax.
Profits less losses on acquisitions disposal of interests in businesses.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 3 Operating segments additional information Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 a Gross sales revenue by destination % % % US$m US$m US$m China 35.4 32.3 30.9 19,331 17,948 20,149 Japan 16.1 15.8 16.3 8,770 8,787 10,671 Other Asia 15.2 15.2 15.8 8,313 8,464 10,322 United States of America 13.1 12.7 13.8 7,142 7,085 9,019 Europe excluding United Kingdom 10.2 11.5 11.6 5,552 6,380 7,549 Canada 2.3 3.3 2.9 1,276 1,823 1,926 Australia 2.0 2.6 2.5 1,114 1,420 1,643 United Kingdom 1.1 1.2 1.4 617 678 922 Other 4.6 5.4 4.8 2,460 3,012 3,097 Total 100 100 100 54,575 55,597 65,298 Share of equity accounted units sales and intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales and items excluded from Underlying earnings 3,404 4,655 4,769 Consolidated sales revenue 51,171 50,942 60,529 a Gross sales revenue by geographical destination are based on the ultimate country of destination of the product, if known.
If the eventual destination of the product sold through traders is not known then revenue is allocated to the location of the product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are passed.
Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the United Kingdom and Australia.
Restated Restated Gross sales revenue by product 2013 2012 2011 Gross sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers: US$m US$m US$m Iron Ore 26,235 24,756 29,867 Aluminium 12,059 12,535 14,327 Copper 4,766 4,749 5,144 Coal 4,557 5,060 6,026 Industrial Minerals 3,330 3,460 3,131 Diamonds 859 754 726 Gold 402 614 1,012 Other 2,367 3,669 5,065 Total 54,575 55,597 65,298 Share of equity accounted units sales and intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 3,404 4,655 4,769 Consolidated sales revenue 51,171 50,942 60,529 Non-current assets other than excluded items The total of non-current assets other than items excluded is shown by location below.
This is allocated based on the location of the business units holding the assets.
Restated 2013 2012 b Non-current assets other than excluded items US$m US$m Australia 38,100 40,252 Canada 18,567 18,527 Mongolia 8,315 14,766 United States 4,739 5,162 Africa 3,261 4,872 South America 3,146 2,726 United Kingdom 1,246 1,016 Indonesia 968 816 France 602 590 Europe excluding France 524 506 Other countries 3,007 2,182 82,475 91,415 Table continued on next page.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Restated 3 Operating segments additional information 2013 2012 b Restated Restated Non-current assets other than excluded items US$m US$m 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 a Non-current assets excluded from analysis above: Gross sales revenue by destination % % % US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets 3,555 3,476 China 35.4 32.3 30.9 19,331 17,948 20,149 Derivatives and other financial assets 899 1,084 Japan 16.1 15.8 16.3 8,770 8,787 10,671 c Loans to equity accounted units 277 406 Other Asia 15.2 15.2 15.8 8,313 8,464 10,322 Tax recoverable 83 86 United States of America 13.1 12.7 13.8 7,142 7,085 9,019 Accounts receivable 1,454 1,460 Europe excluding United Kingdom 10.2 11.5 11.6 5,552 6,380 7,549 Total non-current assets per statement of financial position 88,743 97,927 Canada 2.3 3.3 2.9 1,276 1,823 1,926 Australia 2.0 2.6 2.5 1,114 1,420 1,643 b Allocation of non-current assets by country is based on the location of the business units holding the assets, and includes investments in equity accounted units totalling US$3,681 million 2012: US$3,548 million which represents the Groups share of net assets excluding quasi equity loans shown separately within Loans to equity accounted units above.
United Kingdom 1.1 1.2 1.4 617 678 922 c Loans to equity accounted units comprise quasi equity loans of US$276 million 2012: US$393 million included in Investments in equity accounted units on the face of the statement Other 4.6 5.4 4.8 2,460 3,012 3,097 of financial position and non-quasi equity loans of US$1 million 2012: US$13 million shown within other financial assets.
Total 100 100 100 54,575 55,597 65,298 Share of equity accounted units sales and intra-subsidiary 4 Net operating costs equity accounted units sales and items excluded from Restated Restated Underlying earnings 3,404 4,655 4,769 2013 2012 2011 Consolidated sales revenue 51,171 50,942 60,529 Note US$m US$m US$m a Gross sales revenue by geographical destination are based on the ultimate country of destination of the product, if known.
If the eventual destination of the product sold through traders Raw materials and consumables 8,801 10,124 11,842 is not known then revenue is allocated to the location of the product at the time when the risks and rewards of ownership are passed.
Rio Tinto is domiciled in both the United Kingdom Amortisation of intangible assets 13 255 310 325 and Australia.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 14 4,536 4,314 3,647 Restated Restated Employment costs 5 7,568 8,671 7,140 Gross sales revenue by product 2013 2012 2011 Gross sales revenues of the Group are derived from the following products sold to external customers: US$m US$m US$m Repairs and maintenance 2,363 2,932 2,533 Iron Ore 26,235 24,756 29,867 Shipping costs 1,894 1,896 1,885 Aluminium 12,059 12,535 14,327 Other freight costs 1,619 1,628 1,274 Copper 4,766 4,749 5,144 Increase decrease in finished goods and work in progress 199 100 42 Coal 4,557 5,060 6,026 Royalties 2,883 2,374 2,791 a Industrial Minerals 3,330 3,460 3,131 Amounts charged by equity accounted units 1,728 2,154 2,297 Diamonds 859 754 726 Net foreign exchange losses gains 71 2 82 Gold 402 614 1,012 Other external costs 4,025 3,027 2,571 Other 2,367 3,669 5,065 Provisions including exchange differences on provisions 26 1,449 886 1,082 Total 54,575 55,597 65,298 Research and development 231 246 150 Share of equity accounted units sales and intra-subsidiary equity accounted units sales 3,404 4,655 4,769 Costs included above qualifying for capitalisation 582 544 862 Consolidated sales revenue 51,171 50,942 60,529 Other operating income 794 586 396 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 36,104 37,534 36,155 Non-current assets other than excluded items a Amounts charged by equity accounted units relate to toll processing and also include purchases from equity accounted units of bauxite and aluminium which are then The total of non-current assets other than items excluded is shown by location below.
processed by the product group or sold to third parties.
Generally, purchases are in proportion to the Groups share of the equity accounted unit but in 2013, US$529 million 2012: US$690 million: 2011: US$849 million related to purchases of the other investors share of production.
Restated 2013 2012 Information on auditors remuneration is included in note 39. b Non-current assets other than excluded items US$m US$m Australia 38,100 40,252 5 Employment costs Canada 18,567 18,527 Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 Mongolia 8,315 14,766 Note US$m US$m US$m United States 4,739 5,162 Employment costs Africa 3,261 4,872 Wages and salaries 7,181 8,382 6,908 South America 3,146 2,726 Social security costs 421 156 128 United Kingdom 1,246 1,016 Net post retirement cost 45 805 823 753 Indonesia 968 816 Share option charge 44 142 240 156 France 602 590 8,549 9,601 7,945 Europe excluding France 524 506 Less: charged within provisions 981 930 805 Other countries 3,007 2,182 Total employment costs 4 7,568 8,671 7,140 82,475 91,415 Table continued on next page.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 6 Impairment charges NonRestated controlling Net Pre-tax Pre-tax Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount 2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Copper Oyu Tolgoi 4,716 892 2,335 1,489 Aluminium 1,797 504 1,293 12,214 9,182 Energy Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique 497 27 470 3,269 Copper South Gobi 269 67 154 48 a Diamonds 659 467 b Other 252 57 67 128 85 117 Total 7,531 1,547 2,556 3,428 16,227 9,766 Allocated as: Goodwill note 12 1,149 8,009 7,405 Intangible assets note 13 1,287 1,817 Property, plant and equipment note 14 4,882 4,686 1,793 Investment in equity accounted units 216 1,526 592 Other assets 3 189 24 Total 7,531 16,227 9,766 Comprising: Impairment of consolidated balances 7,315 14,701 9,174 Impairment of investments in equity accounted units 230 2,217 941 Total impairment in the financial information by business unit page 198 7,545 16,918 10,115 Taxation including related to EAUs 1,561 2,536 825 Non-controlling interests 2,556 22 Net impairment in the income statement 3,428 14,360 9,290 a On 24 June 2013, the Group announced that the strategic review had concluded with a decision to retain the Diamonds businesses.
No impairment triggers relating to Diamonds were identified during 2013. b Other impairments include adjustments to reduce the carrying amount of the Eagle nickel-copper project to fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD prior to divestment on 17 July 2013, and is considered to be a level 1 classification under the fair value hierarchy.
Other impairment include an adjustment to the carrying value of Inova Resources Limited which was sold on 1 November 2013.
Copper Oyu Tolgoi The annual impairment review of the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit resulted in a pre-tax impairment of US$1,149 million to goodwill and US$3,567 million to property, plant and equipment, primarily as a result of the delay in developing the underground.
The recoverable amount for Oyu Tolgoi was determined to be US$8.4 billion assessed by reference to a FVLCD model, in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1 i.
The impairment loss was allocated to goodwill and the accounting uplift to property, plant and equipment that were previously recognised as accounting uplifts from when Rio Tinto obtained control of Oyu Tolgoi such that individual items of property, plant and equipment were not written down below fair value.
The recoverable amount of the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms have been estimated until the end of the life of mine plan and discounted using a country specific post-tax discount rate of 8.7 per cent 2012: 8.3 percent for Mongolia.
The most critical assumption for the FVLCD calculation is the timing of the underground project.
If this is further delayed, it would have an adverse impact upon the recoverable amount due to the delay in commencing full production.
A further twelve month delay in the timing of cash flows related to the underground would decrease FVLCD by US$0.8 billion.
Other key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Oyu Tolgoi is most sensitive are: long-term copper prices, discount rates and operating costs.
Other assumptions include the long-term gold price, and Mongolian Tugrik and Chinese Yuan exchange rates against the US dollar.
Future selling prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1 i. Aluminium The annual impairment review of the Groups Aluminium cash-generating units with indefinite-lived intangible assets resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$908 million to intangible assets and US$42 million to property, plant and equipment within the Kitimat cash-generating unit, primarily as a result of a significant project cost overrun.
The recoverable amount of US$2,258 million for the Kitimat cash-generating unit was determined by reference to a FVLCD model, in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1 i and the impairment loss recorded such that individual items of property, plant and equipment were not written down below fair value.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued The recoverable amount of the Kitimat cash-generating unit is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed 6 Impairment charges in real terms have been estimated over the expected useful economic life of the new smelter, being the principal asset of the cash-generating unit and discounted NonRestated using a post-tax discount rate of 7.3 per cent 2012: 6.9 per cent.
controlling Net Pre-tax Pre-tax Pre-tax Taxation interests amount amount amount Modernisation of the Kitimat aluminium smelter in British Columbia is due to be completed in the first half of 2015 subject to any additional capital required to 2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m complete the project receiving Board approval.
The most critical assumption for the FVLCD calculation is the cost to complete the project, where a cost overrun has recently been identified.
A process to validate the extent of the overrun is currently underway: should the cost to complete the project be greater than currently Copper Oyu Tolgoi 4,716 892 2,335 1,489 forecast, it could result in further impairment.
Aluminium 1,797 504 1,293 12,214 9,182 Energy Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique 497 27 470 3,269 Other key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Kitimat is sensitive are: the aluminium price, discount rates, the Canadian dollar exchange rate and Copper South Gobi 269 67 154 48 operating cost assumptions.
The price of alumina is not considered a key assumption as it is typically priced as a percentage of the aluminium price.
The long-term a Diamonds 659 467 aluminium price for impairment testing purposes decreased by 6.5 per cent 2012: three per cent in real terms compared to the prior year, marginally above the b mid-point of the range published for 2017 by market commentators of US$2,001 and US$2,570 per tonne, with an average of US$2,250 per tonne.
Other 252 57 67 128 85 117 Total 7,531 1,547 2,556 3,428 16,227 9,766 The remaining US$847 million pre-tax impairment loss in the Groups Aluminium business relates to the full write-off of property, plant and equipment at the Gove alumina refinery following the decision to curtail operations and at the Shawinigan aluminium smelter following the decision to close the plant.
Allocated as: In previous years, the Groups Aluminium cash-generating units were tested for impairment in aggregate as the goodwill was allocated and monitored at the Goodwill note 12 1,149 8,009 7,405 segment level, this goodwill was fully written off in 2012.
During 2012 impairment testing of the Groups Aluminium business resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge Intangible assets note 13 1,287 1,817 of US$7,468 million to goodwill 2011: US$7,405 million, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$229 million to intangible assets 2011: US$nil, a pre-tax impairment Property, plant and equipment note 14 4,882 4,686 1,793 charge of US$3,944 million to property, plant and equipment 2011: US$1,186 million, a post-tax impairment charge of $379 million to investments in equity Investment in equity accounted units 216 1,526 592 accounted units 2011: US$579 million, and a pre-tax adjustment of US$194 million to other assets and liabilities 2011: US$nil.
Other assets 3 189 24 Energy Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique Total 7,531 16,227 9,766 An impairment trigger was identified at Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique following reassessment of the development plan, discount rate and associated country risk premium.
Subsequent testing resulted in a post-tax impairment of the Benga cash-generating unit, which is classified as an investment in equity accounted unit, of Comprising: US$216 million 2012: US$1,147 million and a pre-tax impairment of the Zambeze cash-generating unit intangible assets of US$259 million 2012: US$1,581 million Impairment of consolidated balances 7,315 14,701 9,174 and property, plant and equipment of US$22 million 2012: no impairment charge.
The impairment recorded in 2012 also included the full write off of goodwill of Impairment of investments in equity accounted units 230 2,217 941 US$541 million which was monitored and tested at the business unit level.
Total impairment in the financial information by The recoverable amount for Benga has been determined to be US$86 million assessed by reference to a FVLCD model and the recoverable amount for Zambeze business unit page 198 7,545 16,918 10,115 has been determined by reference to a value-in-use of nil as the property is undeveloped.
Taxation including related to EAUs 1,561 2,536 825 Non-controlling interests 2,556 22 The recoverable amount for the Benga cash-generating unit is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed Net impairment in the income statement 3,428 14,360 9,290 in real terms have been estimated over the assets life based on long term production plans, including restoration and environmental clean-up costs.
The cash flows are discounted using a country specific post-tax discount rate of 10.3 per cent 2012: 7.9 per cent for Mozambique.
a On 24 June 2013, the Group announced that the strategic review had concluded with a decision to retain the Diamonds businesses.
No impairment triggers relating to Diamonds were identified during 2013.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Benga is most sensitive are the thermal coal and hard coking coal price: operating costs: discount rates: b Other impairments include adjustments to reduce the carrying amount of the Eagle nickel-copper project to fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD prior to divestment on and infrastructure assumptions.
Coal prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
17 July 2013, and is considered to be a level 1 classification under the fair value hierarchy.
Copper SouthGobi: expansion and undeveloped properties The expansion and undeveloped properties in SouthGobi were recognised in accordance with the requirement in IFRS to fair value assets on first consolidation and Copper Oyu Tolgoi were therefore recorded as an accounting uplift when Rio Tinto obtained control of Turquoise Hill Resources on 24 January 2012.
These assets were not amortised The annual impairment review of the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit resulted in a pre-tax impairment of US$1,149 million to goodwill and US$3,567 million and therefore have been tested for impairment.
The recoverable amount has been determined as nil by reference to a recoverable amount based on value-in-use.
to property, plant and equipment, primarily as a result of the delay in developing the underground.
The recoverable amount for Oyu Tolgoi was determined to be As a result, a pre-tax impairment charge of US$113 million has been recorded against intangible assets and a further US$156 million has been recorded against US$8.4 billion assessed by reference to a FVLCD model, in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1 i.
The impairment loss was allocated to goodwill and property, plant and equipment.
the accounting uplift to property, plant and equipment that were previously recognised as accounting uplifts from when Rio Tinto obtained control of Oyu Tolgoi such that individual items of property, plant and equipment were not written down below fair value.
7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units The recoverable amount of the Oyu Tolgoi cash-generating unit is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows Restated Restated expressed in real terms have been estimated until the end of the life of mine plan and discounted using a country specific post-tax discount rate of 8.7 per cent 2013 2012 2011 2012: 8.3 percent for Mongolia.
US$m US$m US$m a Sales revenue: Rio Tinto share 4,113 5,498 6,098 The most critical assumption for the FVLCD calculation is the timing of the underground project.
If this is further delayed, it would have an adverse impact upon Operating costs 2,871 3,779 4,893 the recoverable amount due to the delay in commencing full production.
A further twelve month delay in the timing of cash flows related to the underground Profit before finance items and taxation 1,242 1,719 1,205 would decrease FVLCD by US$0.8 billion.
Finance items 97 68 32 Other key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Oyu Tolgoi is most sensitive are: long-term copper prices, discount rates and operating costs.
Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 31 47 38 Other assumptions include the long-term gold price, and Mongolian Tugrik and Chinese Yuan exchange rates against the US dollar.
Future selling prices and Profit before taxation 1,176 1,698 1,211 operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
Taxation 478 642 515 Aluminium Profit for the year Rio Tinto share 698 1,056 696 The annual impairment review of the Groups Aluminium cash-generating units with indefinite-lived intangible assets resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge a Sales revenue of equity accounted units excludes charges by equity accounted units to Group subsidiaries.
of US$908 million to intangible assets and US$42 million to property, plant and equipment within the Kitimat cash-generating unit, primarily as a result of a significant project cost overrun.
The recoverable amount of US$2,258 million for the Kitimat cash-generating unit was determined by reference to a FVLCD model, Additional information relating to the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates is given in notes 35 and 36. in line with the accounting policy set out in note 1 i and the impairment loss recorded such that individual items of property, plant and equipment were not written down below fair value.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 8 Finance income and finance costs Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 Note US$m US$m US$m Finance income from equity accounted units 14 14 27 Other finance income including bank deposits and other financial assets 68 102 79 Total finance income 82 116 106 a Interest payable and similar charges 1,234 1,059 989 Amounts capitalised 14 727 766 493 Total finance costs 507 293 496 a Interest payable and similar charges relate to interest on bank loans and other borrowings.
This includes a fair value loss on interest rate swaps designated as hedges of US$266 million 2012: US$25 million loss: 2011: US$311 million gain and a fair value gain on bonds and notes attributable to interest rate risk of US$257 million 2012: US$13 million loss: 2011: US$308 million loss.
9 Taxation Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 Note US$m US$m US$m Taxation charge Current 4,102 3,887 6,144 Deferred 17 1,676 3,298 328 2,426 589 6,472 Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 Prima facie tax reconciliation US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before taxation 3,505 2,431 13,272 Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 698 1,056 696 a Add: impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units 216 1,526 592 Parent companies and subsidiaries profit loss before tax 3,023 1,961 13,168 Prima facie tax payable at UK rate of 23% 2012: 24%: 2011: 26% 695 471 3,424 Higher rate of taxation on Australian earnings 1,411 838 759 Impact of items excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings: Impairment charges 135 1,683 1,909 Gains and losses on disposal and consolidation of businesses 199 185 33 Foreign exchange on excluded finance items 77 44 27 b Impact of tax law changes on recognition of deferred tax assets 1,205 342 Other exclusions 7 157 90 Impact of changes in tax rates and laws 12 5 20 Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia 63 74 129 Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances 103 121 182 Research, development and other investment allowances 49 57 78 Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 84 Unrecognised current year operating losses 339 200 272 Other items 178 43 27 c Total taxation charge 2,426 589 6,472 a Impairment of investments in equity accounted units is net of tax credits of US$14 million 2012: US$691 million: 2011: US$349 million.
b Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT is an additional tax on profits from the mining of iron ore and coal in Australia, which came into effect on 1 July 2012.
In computing MRRT liabilities, a deduction is given in respect of the market value of the mining assets as at 1 May 2010.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised on the temporary difference between the amount that is deductible for tax purposes and the carrying value of the assets in the accounts, to the extent that its recovery is probable.
This temporary difference will reverse over the life of the mines.
c This tax reconciliation relates to the Groups parent companies, subsidiaries and joint operations.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued The tax credit charge relating to components of other comprehensive income is as follows: 8 Finance income and finance costs Restated Restated Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Note US$m US$m US$m Total Total Total Finance income from equity accounted units 14 14 27 US$m US$m US$m Tax on exchange adjustments 17 1 13 Other finance income including bank deposits and other financial assets 68 102 79 Fair value movements: Total finance income 82 116 106 Cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 34 26 24 a Cash flow hedge gains losses transferred to the income statement 19 50 52 Interest payable and similar charges 1,234 1,059 989 Losses on revaluation of available for sale securities 2 6 21 Amounts capitalised 14 727 766 493 Losses gains on revaluation of available for sale securities Total finance costs 507 293 496 transferred to the income statement 20 1 1 a Interest payable and similar charges relate to interest on bank loans and other borrowings.
This includes a fair value loss on interest rate swaps designated as hedges of US$266 million 2012: US$25 million loss: 2011: US$311 million gain and a fair value gain on bonds and notes attributable to interest rate risk of US$257 million 2012: US$13 million Currency translation reclassified 3 loss: 2011: US$308 million loss.
Actuarial gains losses on post retirement benefit plans 641 83 532 Deferred tax on share options 6 8 55 9 Taxation 697 57 433 Restated Restated Share of tax on other comprehensive expense 2013 2012 2011 of equity accounted units 3 Note US$m US$m US$m Tax relating to components of other Taxation charge a comprehensive income expense for the year 697 57 430 Current 4,102 3,887 6,144 a This comprises deferred tax charge of US$697 million 2012: credit of US$54 million: 2011: credit of US$476 million and current tax credits of US$nil 2012: US$3 million: 2011: charge Deferred 17 1,676 3,298 328 of US$43 million, plus share of tax on other comprehensive income of equity accounted units shown separately.
2,426 589 6,472 10 Earnings loss per ordinary share Restated Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 Prima facie tax reconciliation US$m US$m US$m Weighted Weighted Restated average 2013 average 2012 Profit loss before taxation 3,505 2,431 13,272 2013 number of Per share 2012 number of Per share Deduct: share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 698 1,056 696 Earnings shares amount Earnings shares amount a US$m millions cents US$m millions cents Add: impairment after tax of investments in equity accounted units 216 1,526 592 Basic earnings loss per share attributable to ordinary Parent companies and subsidiaries profit loss before tax 3,023 1,961 13,168 shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 3,665 1,847.3 198.4 3,021 1,849.1 163.4 Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary Prima facie tax payable at UK rate of 23% 2012: 24%: 2011: 26% 695 471 3,424 shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 1,847.3 7 1,849.1 0.4 Higher rate of taxation on Australian earnings 1,411 838 759 a Total basic earnings loss per share profit for the year 3,665 1,847.3 198.4 3,028 1,849.1 163.8 Impact of items excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings: Diluted earnings loss per share attributable to ordinary Impairment charges 135 1,683 1,909 shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 3,665 1,857.7 197.3 3,021 1,849.1 163.4 Gains and losses on disposal and consolidation of businesses 199 185 33 Diluted loss per share attributable to ordinary Foreign exchange on excluded finance items 77 44 27 shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 1,857.7 7 1,849.1 0.4 b Impact of tax law changes on recognition of deferred tax assets 1,205 342 b Total diluted earnings loss per share profit for the year 3,665 1,857.7 197.3 3,028 1,849.1 163.8 Other exclusions 7 157 90 Impact of changes in tax rates and laws 12 5 20 Restated Other tax rates applicable outside the UK and Australia 63 74 129 2011 Resource depletion and other depreciation allowances 103 121 182 Weighted Restated average 2011 Research, development and other investment allowances 49 57 78 2011 number of Per share Recognition of previously unrecognised deferred tax assets 84 Earnings shares amount Unrecognised current year operating losses 339 200 272 US$m millions cents Other items 178 43 27 Basic earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 5,845 1,923.1 303.9 c Total taxation charge 2,426 589 6,472 Basic loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 10 1,923.1 0.5 a a Impairment of investments in equity accounted units is net of tax credits of US$14 million 2012: US$691 million: 2011: US$349 million.
Total basic earnings per share profit for the year 5,835 1,923.1 303.4 b Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT is an additional tax on profits from the mining of iron ore and coal in Australia, which came into effect on 1 July 2012.
In computing MRRT liabilities, Diluted earnings per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto continuing operations 5,845 1,935.5 302.0 a deduction is given in respect of the market value of the mining assets as at 1 May 2010.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised on the temporary difference between the amount Diluted loss per share attributable to ordinary shareholders of Rio Tinto discontinued operations 10 1,935.5 0.5 that is deductible for tax purposes and the carrying value of the assets in the accounts, to the extent that its recovery is probable.
This temporary difference will reverse over the life of Total diluted earnings per share profit for the year 5,835 1,935.5 301.5 the mines.
a The weighted average number of shares is calculated as the average number of Rio Tinto plc shares outstanding not held as treasury shares of 1,411.6 million 2012: 1,413.4 million: 2011: 1,487.3 million plus the average number of Rio Tinto Limited shares outstanding of 435.7 million 2012: 435.8 million: 2011: 435.8 million.
No Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc in any of the periods presented.
b In accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share, the effects of anti-dilutive potential have not been included when calculating diluted loss per share for the year ended 31 December 2012.
For the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share, the effect of dilutive securities of 12.4 million shares in 2011 is added to the weighted average number of shares described in a above.
This effect is calculated under the treasury stock method.
The Groups only potential dilutive ordinary shares are share options for which terms and conditions are described in note 44.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 11 Dividends 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Rio Tinto plc previous year final dividend paid 1,311 1,295 955 Rio Tinto plc Interim dividend paid 1,213 1,054 778 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final dividend paid 406 380 279 Rio Tinto Limited Interim dividend paid 392 309 224 Dividends paid during the year 3,322 3,038 2,236 Dividends per share: paid during the year 178.0c 163.5c 117.0c Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 108.5c 94.5c 91.0c Dividends Dividends Dividends per share per share per share 2013 2012 2011 Rio Tinto plc previous year final pence 60.34p 57.33p 39.14p Rio Tinto plc Interim pence 54.28p 46.43p 33.14p Rio Tinto Limited previous year final fully franked at 30% Australian cents 91.67c 84.20c 61.94c Rio Tinto Limited Interim fully franked at 30% Australian cents 93.00c 68.51c 49.81c Number Number Number of shares of shares of shares 2013 2012 2011 millions millions millions Rio Tinto plc previous year Final 1,411.9 1,416.7 1,522.6 Rio Tinto plc Interim 1,412.5 1,410.9 1,479.5 Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final 435.8 435.8 435.8 Rio Tinto Limited Interim 435.8 435.8 435.8 The dividends paid in 2013 are based on the following US cents per share amounts: 2012 final 94.5 cents, 2013 interim 83.5 cents 2012 dividends paid: 2011 final 91.0 cents, 2012 interim 72.5 cents: 2011 dividends paid: 2010 final 63.0 cents, 2011 interim 54.0 cents.
The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based excludes those held as treasury shares.
2013, 2012 and 2011, no Rio Tinto Limited shares were held by Rio Tinto plc.
In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of 108.5 cents per share on 13 February 2014.
This is expected to result in payments of US$2,005 million Rio Tinto plc: US$1,532 million, Rio Tinto Limited US$473 million.
The dividends will be paid on 10 April 2014 to Rio Tinto plc shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 March 2014 and to Rio Tinto Limited shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 March 2014.
The proposed Rio Tinto Limited dividends will be franked out of existing franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of income tax during 2014.
The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax groups retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as dividends and franked out of credits, that arose from net payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2013 after deducting franking credits expected to be utilised on the 2013 final dividend declared, is US$14,298 million.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 11 Dividends 12 Goodwill 2013 2012 2011 Restated US$m US$m US$m 2013 2012 US$m US$m Rio Tinto plc previous year final dividend paid 1,311 1,295 955 Net book value Rio Tinto plc Interim dividend paid 1,213 1,054 778 At 1 January 2,774 9,558 Rio Tinto Limited previous year final dividend paid 406 380 279 Adjustment on currency translation 253 246 Rio Tinto Limited Interim dividend paid 392 309 224 Company no longer consolidated 23 Dividends paid during the year 3,322 3,038 2,236 Newly consolidated operations 979 a Impairment charges 1,149 8,009 Dividends per share: paid during the year 178.0c 163.5c 117.0c At 31 December 1,349 2,774 Dividends per share: proposed in the announcement of the results for the year 108.5c 94.5c 91.0c cost 22,678 24,451 accumulated impairment 21,329 21,677 Dividends Dividends Dividends At 1 January per share per share per share cost 2013 2012 2011 24,451 23,511 accumulated impairment Rio Tinto plc previous year final pence 60.34p 57.33p 39.14p 21,677 13,953 Rio Tinto plc Interim pence 54.28p 46.43p 33.14p At 31 December, goodwill has been allocated as follows: Rio Tinto Limited previous year final fully franked at 30% Australian cents 91.67c 84.20c 61.94c 2013 2012 Rio Tinto Limited Interim fully franked at 30% Australian cents 93.00c 68.51c 49.81c US$m US$m Net book value Number Number Number Richards Bay Minerals 656 806 of shares of shares of shares Iron Ore Australia 445 518 2013 2012 2011 millions millions millions Copper Oyu Tolgoi 1,149 Other 248 301 Rio Tinto plc previous year Final 1,411.9 1,416.7 1,522.6 Rio Tinto plc Interim 1,412.5 1,410.9 1,479.5 1,349 2,774 Rio Tinto Limited previous year Final 435.8 435.8 435.8 a During 2013, the goodwill impairment charge of US$1,149 million represents the full impairment of goodwill allocated to Oyu Tolgoi.
During 2012, the goodwill impairment charge related mainly to Rio Tinto Alcan and Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique.
Refer to note 6 for further details.
Rio Tinto Limited Interim 435.8 435.8 435.8 Impairment tests for goodwill The dividends paid in 2013 are based on the following US cents per share amounts: 2012 final 94.5 cents, 2013 interim 83.5 cents 2012 dividends paid: 2011 final 91.0 cents, 2012 interim 72.5 cents: 2011 dividends paid: 2010 final 63.0 cents, 2011 interim 54.0 cents.
Richards Bay Minerals The Group consolidated Richards Bay Minerals on 3 September 2012.
Goodwill of US$806 million arose in accordance with the requirement in IFRS to recognise The number of shares on which Rio Tinto plc dividends are based excludes those held as treasury shares.
2013, 2012 and 2011, no Rio Tinto Limited shares were a deferred tax asset or liability on the difference between the fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities and their tax base.
The recognition of Richards held by Rio Tinto plc.
Bay Minerals identifiable assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position was based on fair values at the acquisition date determined with the assistance In addition, the directors of Rio Tinto announced a final dividend of 108.5 cents per share on 13 February 2014.
This is expected to result in payments of of an independent third party valuer.
US$2,005 million Rio Tinto plc: US$1,532 million, Rio Tinto Limited US$473 million.
The dividends will be paid on 10 April 2014 to Rio Tinto plc shareholders Richard Bay Minerals annual impairment review resulted in no impairment charge for 2013 2012: no impairment charge.
The recoverable amount has been on the register at the close of business on 7 March 2014 and to Rio Tinto Limited shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 March 2014. assessed by reference to FVLCD, in line with the policy set out in note 1 i and classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
FVLCD was determined by The proposed Rio Tinto Limited dividends will be franked out of existing franking credits or out of franking credits arising from the payment of income tax estimating cash flows until the end of the life of mine plan.
In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of 7.3 per cent 2012: 6.9 per cent has been applied during 2014. to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
The approximate amount of the Rio Tinto Limited consolidated tax groups retained profits and reserves that could be distributed as dividends and franked out The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for Richards Bay Minerals is most sensitive are the long-term titanium slag prices and discount rates.
of credits, that arose from net payments of income tax in respect of periods up to 31 December 2013 after deducting franking credits expected to be utilised on Other assumptions include the long-term pig iron and zircon prices, the South African Rand exchange rate against the US dollar and operating costs.
Future selling the 2013 final dividend declared, is US$14,298 million.
prices and operating costs have been estimated in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
A five per cent decrease in the long-term titanium slag price, in isolation, would lead to a US$482 million decrease in the FVLCD.
A one per cent increase in the discount rate, in isolation, would lead to a US$388 million decrease in the FVLCD.
A ten per cent strengthening of the South African Rand against the US dollar, in isolation, would lead to a US$920 million decrease in FVLCD.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit exceeds the carrying value as a result of each of these sensitivities applied in isolation.
Iron Ore Australia The recoverability of goodwill arising from the acquisition of Robe River has been assessed by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set out in note 1 i and is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, a post-tax discount rate of 7.3 per cent 2012: 6.9 per cent has been applied to the post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms.
The recoverable amounts were determined to be significantly in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill to be impaired.
Other The recoverability of the Other goodwill has been assessed by reference to FVLCD using discounted cash flows, which is in line with the policy set out in note 1 i.
The recoverable amounts were determined to be in excess of carrying value, and there are no reasonably possible changes in key assumptions that would cause the remaining goodwill to be impaired by a significant amount.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 13 Intangible assets Trademarks, Contract patented and based Other Exploration and non patented intangible intangible a b d assets evaluation technology assets Total Year ended 31 December 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2013 2,053 212 4,120 495 6,880 Adjustment on currency translation 96 7 290 47 426 Expenditure during the year 368 9 159 536 c Amortisation for the year 21 123 111 255 e Impairment charges 379 908 1,287 Disposals, transfers and other movements 92 23 42 27 At 31 December 2013 1,854 198 2,831 538 5,421 cost 4,507 334 4,830 1,357 11,028 accumulated amortisation and impairment 2,653 136 1,999 819 5,607 Trademarks, Contract patented and based Other Exploration and non patented intangible intangible a b d evaluation technology assets assets Total Year ended 31 December 2012 restated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2012 2,857 227 4,400 558 8,042 Adjustment on currency translation 21 4 106 13 144 Expenditure during the year 924 1 84 1,009 c Amortisation for the year 20 133 157 310 Impairment charges net of reversals 1,581 5 234 7 1,817 Disposals, transfers and other movements 168 5 19 4 188 At 31 December 2012 2,053 212 4,120 495 6,880 cost 3,634 322 5,265 1,291 10,512 accumulated amortisation and impairment 1,581 110 1,145 796 3,632 a Exploration and evaluation assets useful life is not determined until transferred to property, plant & equipment.
The impairment charge in 2013 of US$379 million 2012: US$1,581 mainly related to exploration and evaluation assets within Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM and SouthGobi Resources Limited see note 6. b The Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan including power supply contracts, customer contracts and water rights.
The water rights are expected to contribute to the efficiency and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
These water rights constitute the majority of the amounts in Contract based intangible assets.
c Finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Where amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis, the following useful lives have been determined: Trademark, patented and non-patented technology Trademarks: 14 to 20 years Patented and non-patented technology: 10 to 20 years Contract based intangible assets Power contracts: 2 to 39 years Other purchase and customer contracts: 5 to 15 years Other intangible assets Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: 2 to 5 years Other intangible assets: 2 to 20 years d There are no intangible assets either pledged as security or held under restriction of title.
e Impairment test for indefinite lived assets: All indefinite lived intangible assets relate to water rights, having been allocated to the Kitimat and the Quebec smelters cash-generating units within the Aluminium business on consolidation of Rio Tinto Alcan in 2007.
The annual impairment test for indefinite lived intangible assets resulted in an impairment loss being recognised in the Kitimat cash-generating unit as described in note 6.
The remaining carrying value of indefinite lived intangible assets wholly relate to the water rights in the Quebec smelters cash-generating unit.
The carrying value of those water rights is US$2,131 million.
The Quebec smelters cash-generating unit was tested for impairment and it was determined that its recoverable amount determined on a FVLCD basis is US$7,736 million and exceeds the carrying amount by US$385 million.
The recoverable amount of the Quebec smelters is classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
In arriving at FVLCD, post-tax cash flows expressed in real terms have been estimated over the expected useful economic lives of the underlying smelting assets and discounted using a post-tax discount rate of 7.3 per cent 2012: 6.9 per cent.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued The key assumptions to which the calculation of FVLCD for the Quebec smelters is most sensitive and the corresponding decrease in FVLCD are set out below: 13 Intangible assets Trademarks, Contract US$ million patented and based Other Exploration and non patented intangible intangible 0.5% increase in discount rate applied to post-tax cash flows 492 a b d assets evaluation technology assets Total 5% decrease in aluminium and alumina prices 1,282 Year ended 31 December 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 5% strengthening of the Canadian dollar 556 Net book value 5% increase in operating costs 810 At 1 January 2013 2,053 212 4,120 495 6,880 Adjustment on currency translation 96 7 290 47 426 Each of the sensitivities has been determined by assuming that the relevant key assumption moves in isolation, except where modifying the aluminium price directly Expenditure during the year 368 9 159 536 affects the price assumption for certain input costs and further assumes that there is no mitigating action by management.
c Amortisation for the year 21 123 111 255 In previous years, the Groups Aluminium cash-generating units were tested for impairment in aggregate as the goodwill was allocated and monitored at the e Impairment charges 379 908 1,287 segment level.
The remaining goodwill was fully impaired in 2012.
Disposals, transfers and other movements 92 23 42 27 Exploration and evaluation expenditure At 31 December 2013 1,854 198 2,831 538 5,421 cost 4,507 334 4,830 1,357 11,028 The charge for the year and the net amount of intangible assets capitalised during the year are as follows: accumulated amortisation and impairment 2,653 136 1,999 819 5,607 Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m Trademarks, Contract Net expenditure in the year net of proceeds of US$27 million 2012: US$217 million: 2011: US$52 million patented and based Other on disposal of undeveloped projects 1,317 2,608 1,604 Exploration and non patented intangible intangible a b d evaluation technology assets assets Total Changes in accruals including impairment of undeveloped projects of US$159 million Year ended 31 December 2012 restated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2012: US$nil: 2011: US$37 million and non-cash proceeds on disposal of undeveloped projects 160 207 8 Net book value Amount capitalised during the year 368 924 248 At 1 January 2012 2,857 227 4,400 558 8,042 Net charge for the year 1,109 1,477 1,348 Adjustment on currency translation 21 4 106 13 144 Reconciliation to income statement Expenditure during the year 924 1 84 1,009 Exploration and evaluation costs 948 1,971 1,437 c Amortisation for the year 20 133 157 310 Loss profit on disposal of interests in undeveloped projects 161 494 89 Impairment charges net of reversals 1,581 5 234 7 1,817 Net charge for the year 1,109 1,477 1,348 Disposals, transfers and other movements 168 5 19 4 188 At 31 December 2012 2,053 212 4,120 495 6,880 14 Property, plant and equipment cost 3,634 322 5,265 1,291 10,512 Mining Capital properties Land and Plant and works in accumulated amortisation and impairment 1,581 110 1,145 796 3,632 a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total a Exploration and evaluation assets useful life is not determined until transferred to property, plant & equipment.
The impairment charge in 2013 of US$379 million 2012: US$1,581 Year ended 31 December 2013 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m mainly related to exploration and evaluation assets within Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM and SouthGobi Resources Limited see note 6.
Net book value b The Group benefits from certain intangible assets acquired with Alcan including power supply contracts, customer contracts and water rights.
The water rights are expected to At 1 January 2013 16,902 7,187 31,601 21,295 76,985 contribute to the efficiency and cost effectiveness of operations for the foreseeable future: accordingly, these rights are considered to have indefinite lives and are not subject to amortisation but are tested annually for impairment.
Adjustment on currency translation 1,303 629 3,670 1,612 7,214 c Finite life intangible assets are amortised over their useful economic lives on a straight line or units of production basis, as appropriate.
Where amortisation is calculated on a straight Adjustments to capitalised closure costs note 26 391 391 c line basis, the following useful lives have been determined: Interest capitalised note 8 2 725 727 Trademark, patented and non-patented technology Additions 397 214 1,444 9,879 11,934 Trademarks: 14 to 20 years a d Depreciation for the year 816 439 3,281 4,536 Patented and non-patented technology: 10 to 20 years e Impairment charges, net of reversals 3,976 67 676 163 4,882 Contract based intangible assets Power contracts: 2 to 39 years Disposals 1 5 89 27 122 Other purchase and customer contracts: 5 to 15 years Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 401 62 274 334 1,071 f Other intangible assets Transfers and other movements 313 1,211 13,409 15,692 1,385 Internally generated intangible assets and computer software: 2 to 5 years At 31 December 2013 10,880 7,410 38,466 14,071 70,827 Other intangible assets: 2 to 20 years cost 21,521 11,328 68,429 14,487 115,765 d There are no intangible assets either pledged as security or held under restriction of title.
accumulated depreciation and impairment 10,641 3,918 29,963 416 44,938 e Impairment test for indefinite lived assets: g Non-current assets held under finance leases 14 9 23 All indefinite lived intangible assets relate to water rights, having been allocated to the Kitimat and the Quebec smelters cash-generating units within the Aluminium business on h consolidation of Rio Tinto Alcan in 2007.
The annual impairment test for indefinite lived intangible assets resulted in an impairment loss being recognised in the Kitimat cash-generating Other non-current assets pledged as security 1,435 175 2,872 97 4,579 unit as described in note 6.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Mining Capital properties Land and Plant and works in a b and leases buildings equipment progress Total Year ended 31 December 2012 restated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net book value At 1 January 2012 16,440 6,261 28,414 15,266 66,381 Adjustment on currency translation 223 103 598 249 1,173 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs note 26 3,005 3,005 c Interest capitalised note 8 766 766 Additions 280 172 1,136 15,735 17,323 a d Depreciation for the year 904 357 3,057 4 4,314 e Impairment charges, net of reversals 136 310 3,053 1,187 4,686 Disposals 2 8 91 11 112 Newly consolidated operations note 37 2,527 277 735 241 3,780 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 3 37 44 21 105 f Transfers and other movements 1,482 1,086 6,963 9,747 216 At 31 December 2012 16,902 7,187 31,601 21,295 76,985 cost 23,457 11,027 58,827 23,820 117,131 accumulated depreciation and impairment 6,555 3,840 27,226 2,525 40,146 g Non-current assets held under finance leases 16 33 49 h Other non-current assets pledged as security 1,877 226 2,023 158 4,284 a Mining properties include deferred stripping costs of US$855 million 2012: US$1,188 million.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs of US$70 million 2012: US$105 million: 2011: US$62 million is included within Depreciation for the year.
b At 31 December 2013, the net book value amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$6,847 million 2012: US$7,071 million : long leasehold US$562 million 2012: US$93 million : and short leasehold US$1 million 2012: US$23 million.
c Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Groups cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable.
The Groups average borrowing rate used for capitalisation of interest is four per cent 2012: 4.6 per cent.
d Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are depreciated on a straight line basis as follows: Land and Buildings Land: Not depreciated Buildings: 5 to 50 years Plant and equipment Other plant and equipment: 3 to 35 years Power assets: 25 to 100 years Capital work in progress: Not depreciated e During 2013, impairment charges primarily relate to the aluminium and copper business.
During 2012, impairment charges primarily related to the aluminium businesses and Argyle.
During 2011 the impairment charge primarily related to the aluminium business.
Refer to note 6 for details.
f Transfers and other movements includes reclassifications between categories, including transfer to assets of disposal groups held for sale.
g The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 23. h Excludes assets held under finance leases.
Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$865 million 2012: US$996 million of loans, which are included in note 22.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 14 Property, plant and equipment continued 15 Investments in equity accounted units Mining Capital Restated properties Land and Plant and works in 2013 2012 a b Summary statement of financial position Rio Tinto share and leases buildings equipment progress Total US$m US$m Year ended 31 December 2012 restated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Rio Tintos share of assets Net book value Non-current assets 5,860 6,318 At 1 January 2012 16,440 6,261 28,414 15,266 66,381 Current assets 1,197 1,916 Adjustment on currency translation 223 103 598 249 1,173 7,057 8,234 Adjustments to capitalised closure costs note 26 3,005 3,005 Rio Tintos share of liabilities c Interest capitalised note 8 766 766 Current liabilities 791 1,342 Additions 280 172 1,136 15,735 17,323 Non-current liabilities 2,309 2,951 a d Depreciation for the year 904 357 3,057 4 4,314 3,100 4,293 e Impairment charges, net of reversals 136 310 3,053 1,187 4,686 a b Rio Tintos share of net assets 3,957 3,941 Disposals 2 8 91 11 112 a Further details of investments in equity accounted units are set out in notes 35 and 36.
Newly consolidated operations note 37 2,527 277 735 241 3,780 b The impact of impairment charges on the Groups investments in equity accounted units are summarised in note 6.
Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 3 37 44 21 105 f At 31 December 2013 and 2012 the Group had no investment in equity accounted units with shares listed on recognised stock exchanges.
Transfers and other movements 1,482 1,086 6,963 9,747 216 c At 31 December 2013, net debt of equity accounted units, excluding amounts due to Rio Tinto, was US$991 million 2012: US$814 million, none of which 2012: US$15 million At 31 December 2012 16,902 7,187 31,601 21,295 76,985 was with recourse to Rio Tinto.
cost 23,457 11,027 58,827 23,820 117,131 accumulated depreciation and impairment 6,555 3,840 27,226 2,525 40,146 16 Inventories Restated g Non-current assets held under finance leases 16 33 49 2013 2012 h US$m US$m Other non-current assets pledged as security 1,877 226 2,023 158 4,284 Raw materials and purchased components 1,116 1,421 a Mining properties include deferred stripping costs of US$855 million 2012: US$1,188 million.
Amortisation of deferred stripping costs of US$70 million 2012: US$105 million: Consumable stores 1,596 1,861 2011: US$62 million is included within Depreciation for the year.
Work in progress 1,721 1,982 b At 31 December 2013, the net book value amount for land and buildings includes freehold US$6,847 million 2012: US$7,071 million : long leasehold US$562 million 2012: US$93 million : and short leasehold US$1 million 2012: US$23 million.
Finished goods and goods for resale 1,815 1,534 c Interest is capitalised at a rate based on the Groups cost of borrowing or at the rate on project specific debt, where applicable.
The Groups average borrowing rate used for 6,248 6,798 capitalisation of interest is four per cent 2012: 4.6 per cent.
Comprising: d Assets within operations for which production is not expected to fluctuate significantly from one year to another or which have a physical life shorter than the related mine are Expected to be used within one year 5,737 6,375 depreciated on a straight line basis as follows: Expected to be used after more than one year 511 423 Land and Buildings Land: Not depreciated 6,248 6,798 Buildings: 5 to 50 years Inventory write downs, net of reversals, amounting to US$201 million 2012: US$208 million: 2011: US$184 million were recognised during the year.
Plant and equipment Other plant and equipment: 3 to 35 years Power assets: 25 to 100 years 17 Deferred taxation Capital work in progress: Not depreciated Restated e During 2013, impairment charges primarily relate to the aluminium and copper business.
2013 2012 During 2011 the impairment charge primarily related to the aluminium business.
US$m US$m f Transfers and other movements includes reclassifications between categories, including transfer to assets of disposal groups held for sale.
At 1 January 1,669 4,436 g The finance leases under which these assets are held are disclosed in note 23.
Adjustment on currency translation 201 60 h Excludes assets held under finance leases.
Non-current assets pledged as security represent amounts pledged as collateral against US$865 million 2012: US$996 million of loans, Credited to the income statement 1,676 3,298 which are included in note 22. a Charged credited to statement of comprehensive income 697 54 b Newly consolidated operations note 37 1 1,027 Transfer to asset held for sale note 19 93 c Other movements 95 409 At 31 December 585 1,669 Comprising: d e deferred tax liabilities 4,140 5,145 d f g deferred tax assets 3,555 3,476 Deferred tax balances for which there is a right of offset within the same jurisdiction are presented net on the face of the statement of financial position as permitted by IAS 12.
The closing deferred tax liabilities and assets, prior to this offsetting of balances, are shown in the table following.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 17 Deferred taxation continued Restated Total Total 2013 2012 US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities arising from: Capital allowances 6,391 7,777 Unremitted earnings 637 495 Capitalised interest 348 683 Unrealised exchange gains 91 738 Other temporary differences 761 954 8,228 10,647 Deferred tax assets arising from: Tax losses 2,496 2,101 Provisions 2,084 1,691 h Capital allowances 1,289 2,633 Post retirement benefits 1,036 1,781 Unrealised exchange losses 184 246 Other temporary differences 554 526 7,643 8,978 Credited charged to the income statement Unrealised exchange losses 566 58 Tax losses 563 426 Provisions 434 4 Decelerated capital allowances 44 3,092 Tax on unremitted earnings 3 26 Post retirement benefits 68 72 Other temporary differences 134 120 1,676 3,298 a The amounts credited directly to the Statement of comprehensive income relate to tax relief on share options, provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying for reporting as part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes, and on post retirement healthcare plans.
b Deferred tax relating to newly consolidated operations in 2012 is principally the result of deferred tax liabilities arising on the difference between the fair value and the tax base of the assets of Richards Bay Minerals and Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd.
Refer to note 37. c Other movements include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to which it relates.
d The deferred tax liability of US$4,140 million 2012: US$5,145 million includes US$4,139 million 2012: US$5,143 million due in more than one year.
The deferred tax asset of US$3,555 million 2012: US$3,476 million includes US$3,426 million 2012: US$3,331 million receivable in more than one year.
e Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the timing of the remittance and it is probable that there will be no remittance in the foreseeable future.
If these earnings were remitted, tax of US$183 million 2012: US$198 million would be payable.
f US$14,200 million 2012: US$15,154 million of potential deferred tax assets have not been recognised as assets in the financial statements.
US$10,664 million 2012: $12,631 million of the potential assets relate to temporary differences that are deductible for the purposes of Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT.
US$1,274 million 2012: US$1,034 million of the potential assets relate to trading losses in France, which were acquired as part of the Alcan acquisition.
US$652 million 2012: US$447 million of the potential assets relate to realised or unrealised capital losses, recovery of which depends on the existence of capital gains in future years.
There is a time limit, the shortest of which is one year, for the recovery of US$343 million of these potential assets 2012: US$116 million.
g There is a limited time period, the shortest of which is four years, for the recovery of US$1,384 million 2012: US$1,017 million of tax losses and other tax assets which have been recognised as deferred tax assets in the financial statements.
h Deferred tax assets arising from capital allowances include amounts arising following the introduction of the Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT on 1 July 2012.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 17 Deferred taxation continued 18 Trade and other receivables Restated Restated Restated Restated Total Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2013 2012 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m a Deferred tax liabilities arising from: Trade receivables 5 2,987 2,992 3,292 3,292 b Capital allowances 6,391 7,777 Other receivables 1,150 1,212 2,362 1,301 1,475 2,776 c Prepayment of tolling charges to jointly controlled entities 479 479 484 484 Unremitted earnings 637 495 Capitalised interest 348 683 Pension surpluses note 45 290 290 154 154 Unrealised exchange gains 91 738 Amounts due from equity accounted units 136 136 238 238 Other temporary differences 761 954 Other prepayments 216 332 548 326 336 662 8,228 10,647 2,140 4,667 6,807 2,265 5,341 7,606 a At 31 December 2013, trade and other receivables are stated net of provisions for doubtful debts of US$12 million 2012: US$23 million.
Amounts of US$10 million 2012: US$21 million were impaired: the majority of these receivable more than 90 days overdue.
Deferred tax assets arising from: b Non-current receivables at 31 December 2013 included a US$700 million 2012: US$700 million prepayment for an intangible asset, as a result of signing the agreement Tax losses 2,496 2,101 for the Simandou iron ore project in 2012.
Provisions 2,084 1,691 h c Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina.
These prepayments will be charged to Group operating Capital allowances 1,289 2,633 costs as processing takes place.
Post retirement benefits 1,036 1,781 There is no material element of trade and other receivables that is interest bearing.
Unrealised exchange losses 184 246 Other temporary differences 554 526 The fair value of current trade and other receivables, including the majority of amounts classified as non-current assets, approximates their carrying value.
7,643 8,978 As of 31 December 2013, trade and other receivables of US$178 million 2012: US$190 million were past due but not impaired.
The ageing of these receivables is as follows: Credited charged to the income statement 2013 2012 Unrealised exchange losses 566 58 US$m US$m Tax losses 563 426 less than 30 days overdue 57 117 Provisions 434 4 between 30 and 60 days overdue 71 22 Decelerated capital allowances 44 3,092 between 60 and 90 days overdue 47 19 Tax on unremitted earnings 3 26 more than 90 days overdue 3 32 Post retirement benefits 68 72 178 190 Other temporary differences 134 120 These relate to a number of customers for whom there is no recent history of default or other indicators of impairment.
1,676 3,298 a The amounts credited directly to the Statement of comprehensive income relate to tax relief on share options, provisions for tax on exchange differences on intragroup loans qualifying With respect to trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of the reporting date that the debtors will not meet for reporting as part of the net investment in subsidiaries, on cash flow hedges and on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes, and on post retirement healthcare plans.
19 Assets and liabilities held for sale c Other movements include deferred tax relating to tax payable recognised by subsidiary holding companies on the profits of the equity accounted units to which it relates.
At 31 December 2013 assets and liabilities held for sale comprise the Groups 50.1 per cent interest in the Clermont Joint Venture Clermont, its 71.2 per cent d The deferred tax liability of US$4,140 million 2012: US$5,145 million includes US$4,139 million 2012: US$5,143 million due in more than one year.
The deferred tax asset of interest in the Blair Athol Coal project Blair Athol, and Zululand Anthracite Colliery ZAC, which was acquired with Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique in 2011.
US$3,555 million 2012: US$3,476 million includes US$3,426 million 2012: US$3,331 million receivable in more than one year.
On 25 October 2013, Rio Tinto announced that it had reached a binding agreement to sell its interest in Clermont to GS Coal Pty Ltd, a company jointly owned e Deferred tax is not recognised on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and joint ventures where the Group is able to control the timing of the remittance and it is probable that there by Glencore Xstrata and Sumitomo Corporation, for US$1.015 billion.
The sale is conditional upon certain conditions precedent, including customary regulatory will be no remittance in the foreseeable future.
On 3 October, the Rio Tinto Coal Australia managed Blair Athol Coal Joint Venture signed a conditional Sale and Purchase Agreement to transfer its f US$14,200 million 2012: US$15,154 million of potential deferred tax assets have not been recognised as assets in the financial statements.
US$10,664 million 2012: $12,631 million interests in Blair Athol to New Emerald Coal Ltd NEC, a subsidiary of Linc Energy Ltd.
The transaction is expected to complete during the first half of 2014. of the potential assets relate to temporary differences that are deductible for the purposes of Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT.
US$652 million 2012: US$447 million of the potential assets relate to realised Rio Tinto ceased mining at Blair Athol in November 2012. or unrealised capital losses, recovery of which depends on the existence of capital gains in future years.
There is a time limit, the shortest of which is one year, for the recovery In relation to Clermont and Blair Athol, assets held for sale include: property, plant and equipment of US$807 million and other assets of US$81 million: liabilities of US$343 million of these potential assets 2012: US$116 million.
held for sale include: provisions of US$95 million and other liabilities of US$44 million.
At 31 December 2012 assets and liabilities held for sale comprised Palabora Mining Company Limited and ZAC.
The sale of Palabora to a consortium comprising h Deferred tax assets arising from capital allowances include amounts arising following the introduction of the Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT on 1 July 2012.
South African and Chinese entities led by the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa Limited and Hebei Iron & Steel Group completed on 31 July 2013.
At 31 December 2011 assets and liabilities held for sale comprised ZAC.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 20 Other financial assets Restated Restated Restated Current Non-current Current Total Non-current Total 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 403 63 466 414 29 443 Equity shares and quoted funds 157 122 279 298 71 369 Other investments, including loans 339 167 506 372 167 539 Loans to equity accounted units 1 93 94 13 269 282 Tax recoverable 83 265 348 86 153 239 983 710 1,693 1,183 689 1,872 Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 30.
21 Cash and cash equivalents Restated 2013 2012 Note US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 1,548 1,320 Other short term deposits 8,668 5,815 Balance per Group statement of financial position 10,216 7,135 Bank overdrafts repayable on demand unsecured 22 7 97 Cash and cash equivalents included in Assets held for sale 234 Balance per Group cash flow statement 10,209 7,272 US$570 million 2012: US$108 million of cash and cash equivalents is held in countries where there are restrictions on remittances.
Of this balance US$402 million 2012: US$87million could be used to repay subsidiaries third party borrowings.
There are also restrictions on a further US$652 million 2012: US$546 million of cash and cash equivalents, the majority of which is held by partially owned entities and is not available for use in the wider Group due to the legal and contractual restrictions currently in place.
Of this balance US$119 million 2012: US$199 million could be used to repay subsidiaries third party borrowings.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 20 Other financial assets 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Current Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total Non-current Total 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 Borrowings at 31 December Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 403 63 466 414 29 443 USD Commercial Paper 156 156 200 200 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 8.95% 2014 1,907 1,907 1,935 1,935 Equity shares and quoted funds 157 122 279 298 71 369 a Alcan Inc.
Global Notes 5.0% due 2015 499 499 501 501 Detailed information relating to other financial assets is given in note 30.
Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 2.500% 2016 698 698 696 696 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 2.250% 2016 498 498 497 497 21 Cash and cash equivalents Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 1.375% 2016 996 996 Restated Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds LIBOR plus 0.84% 2016 499 499 2013 2012 Note US$m US$m Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 2.0% 2017 499 499 499 499 Cash at bank and in hand 1,548 1,320 Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 1.625% 2017 1,243 1,243 1,241 1,241 a Other short term deposits 8,668 5,815 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 6.5% 2018 1,979 1,979 2,059 2,059 Balance per Group statement of financial position 10,216 7,135 Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 2.250% 2018 1,238 1,238 a Bank overdrafts repayable on demand unsecured 22 7 97 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 9.0% 2019 1,467 1,467 1,456 1,456 Cash and cash equivalents included in Assets held for sale 234 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.5% 2020 995 995 994 994 a b Balance per Group cash flow statement 10,209 7,272 Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.0% due 2020 999 999 971 971 Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 4.125% 2021 996 996 997 997 US$570 million 2012: US$108 million of cash and cash equivalents is held in countries where there are restrictions on remittances.
Of this balance US$402 million Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 3.750% 2021 1,145 1,145 1,143 1,143 2012: US$87million could be used to repay subsidiaries third party borrowings.
Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 3.5% 2022 992 992 992 992 There are also restrictions on a further US$652 million 2012: US$546 million of cash and cash equivalents, the majority of which is held by partially owned entities Rio Tinto Finance USA plc Bonds 2.875% 2022 985 985 984 984 a b and is not available for use in the wider Group due to the legal and contractual restrictions currently in place.
Of this balance US$119 million 2012: US$199 million Rio Tinto Finance plc Euro Bonds 2.875% due 2024 639 639 636 636 could be used to repay subsidiaries third party borrowings.
Global Notes 4.50% due 2013 498 498 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 5.875% 2013 595 595 a Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% 2013 100 100 Loans from equity accounting units 9 77 86 111 5 116 Other secured loans 651 214 865 918 78 996 Other unsecured loans 551 1,049 1,600 519 590 1,109 Finance leases 23 39 7 46 55 12 67 Bank overdrafts 21 7 7 97 97 c Total borrowings including overdrafts 24,544 3,916 28,460 24,477 2,175 26,652 a These borrowings are subject to the hedging arrangements summarised below.
b Rio Tinto has a US$10 billion 2012: US$10 billion European Debt Issuance Programme EDIP against which the cumulative amount utilised was US$2.6 billion equivalent at 31 December 2013 2012: US$2.4 billion.
The carrying value of these bonds after hedge accounting adjustments amounted to US$2.5 billion 2012: US$2.4 billion in aggregate.
c The Groups borrowings of US$28.5 billion 2012: US$26.7 billion include some US$3.3 billion 2012: US$4.1 billion which relates to subsidiary entity borrowings that are without recourse to the Group, of which US$0.7 billion 2012: US$0.8 billion are subject to various financial and general covenants with which the respective borrowers were in compliance as at 31 December 2013.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities continued Other financial liabilities Restated Restated Restated Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments 31 10 41 171 23 194 Other financial liabilities 50 50 58 58 Total other financial liabilities 81 10 91 229 23 252 Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 24,625 3,926 28,551 24,706 2,198 26,904 Detailed information relating to other financial liabilities is given in note 30.
Swap arrangements At 31 December 2013, US$4.2 billion 2012: US$5.4 billion US dollar notional of the fixed rate US dollar borrowings were swapped to floating US dollar rates, US$1.6 billion 2012: US$1.6 billion US dollar notional equivalent of Euro borrowings were fully swapped to floating US dollar rates and US$0.8 billion 2012: US$0.8billion US dollar notional equivalent of Pound Sterling borrowings were fully swapped to fixed US dollar rates.
The Rio Tinto Finance plc Sterling Bond 4.0% due 2029 has been designated as a cash flow hedge.
Other borrowings have been swapped to floating rates and fair value hedge accounting has been applied except for: US$250 million 2012: US$250 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 8.95% due 2014, US$750 million 2012: US$750 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 6.5% due 2018, US$75 million 2012: US$75 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2028, and US$200 million 2012: US$200 million of the Alcan Inc.
In addition, at 31 December 2012, US$100 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2013, and US$87 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 5.875% due 2013 were swapped but not in a fair value hedge.
The fair value of interest rate and cross currency interest rate swap assets and liabilities at 31 December 2013 was US$192 million 2012: US$347 million and US$14 million 2012: US$44 million, respectively.
These are included in other financial assets and other financial liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Details of the major interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps are shown in note 30.
US$0.7 billion 2012: US$0.8 billion of borrowings were subject to financial covenants.
23 Capitalised finance leases Restated 2013 2012 Note US$m US$m Present value of minimum lease payments Total minimum lease payments 48 69 Effect of discounting 2 2 14 46 67 Payments under capitalised finance leases Due within one year 7 12 Between 1 and 3 years 13 11 Between 3 and 5 years 11 13 More than 5 years 15 31 14 46 67 152 152 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities continued 24 Consolidated net debt Restated Other financial liabilities 2013 2012 Restated Restated Restated US$m US$m Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total Analysis of changes in consolidated net debt 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 Opening balance 19,192 8,342 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Adjustment on currency translation 2,051 411 Derivative financial instruments 31 10 41 171 23 194 a Exchange losses gains charged credited to the income statement 2,120 417 Other financial liabilities 50 50 58 58 Cash movements excluding exchange movements 1,076 10,412 Total other financial liabilities 81 10 91 229 23 252 Net funds debt of acquired companies 14 540 Other movements 116 96 Total borrowings and other financial liabilities 24,625 3,926 28,551 24,706 2,198 26,904 Closing balance 18,055 19,192 Detailed information relating to other financial liabilities is given in note 30.
Total borrowings in statement of financial position note 22 28,460 26,652 Swap arrangements Derivatives related to net debt included in Other financial assets liabilities note 30 173 294 At 31 December 2013, US$4.2 billion 2012: US$5.4 billion US dollar notional of the fixed rate US dollar borrowings were swapped to floating US dollar rates, b EAU funded balances excluded from net debt 16 31 US$1.6 billion 2012: US$1.6 billion US dollar notional equivalent of Euro borrowings were fully swapped to floating US dollar rates and US$0.8 billion Adjusted total borrowings 28,271 26,327 2012: US$0.8billion US dollar notional equivalent of Pound Sterling borrowings were fully swapped to fixed US dollar rates.
Cash and cash equivalents note 21 10,216 7,135 Consolidated net debt 18,055 19,192 Other borrowings have been swapped to floating rates and fair value hedge accounting has been applied except for: US$250 million 2012: US$250 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 8.95% due 2014, US$750 million 2012: US$750 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 6.5% due 2018, US$75 million 2012: US$75 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2028, and US$200 million 2012: US$200 million of the Alcan Inc.
Restated Restated Global Notes 5.2% due 2014.
In addition, at 31 December 2012, US$100 million of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 7.125% due 2013, and US$87 million 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m of the Rio Tinto Finance USA Limited Bonds 5.875% due 2013 were swapped but not in a fair value hedge.
Exchange losses gains on US dollar net debt and intragroup balances excluded from Underlying earnings The fair value of interest rate and cross currency interest rate swap assets and liabilities at 31 December 2013 was US$192 million 2012: US$347 million and Exchange losses gains on US dollar net debt 2,098 416 186 US$14 million 2012: US$44 million, respectively.
Exchange losses gains on intragroup balances 1,574 54 42 Details of the major interest rate and cross currency interest rate swaps are shown in note 30.
US$0.7 billion 2012: US$0.8 billion of borrowings were subject to Exchange gains losses on loans from equity accounted units 4 1 financial covenants.
Exchange gains losses on settlement of dividend 18 16 Charged credited to income statement 3,672 492 161 23 Capitalised finance leases a Exchange gains taken to the income statement include amounts excluded from Underlying earnings.
Restated b EAU funded balances are defined as amounts owed by partially owned subsidiaries to EAUs, where such funding was provided to the EAU by the Group.
2013 2012 Note US$m US$m Further information relating to the currency and interest rate exposures arising from net debt and related derivatives is given in note 30.
Present value of minimum lease payments Total minimum lease payments 48 69 25 Trade and other payables Effect of discounting 2 2 Restated Restated Restated 14 46 67 Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Payments under capitalised finance leases Trade payables 2 3,095 3,097 3,317 3,317 Due within one year 7 12 Accruals and deferred income 146 2,481 2,627 190 3,190 3,380 Between 1 and 3 years 13 11 a Other payables 164 1,112 1,276 226 1,129 1,355 Between 3 and 5 years 11 13 Employee entitlements 861 861 55 884 939 More than 5 years 15 31 Royalties and mining taxes 2 682 684 539 539 14 46 67 Amounts owed to equity accounted units 135 155 290 357 357 Government grants deferred 127 14 141 134 4 138 576 8,400 8,976 605 9,420 10,025 a Other payables include deferred consideration of US$54 million 2012: US$82 million relating to acquired assets.
All other accounts payable and accruals are non interest bearing.
Due to their short term maturities, the fair value of trade and other payables approximates their carrying value.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 26 Provisions including post retirement benefits Pensions and post Other Close down Restated retirement employee and restoration Total Total a b c d e f healthcare entitlements environmental Other 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 6,205 873 9,223 680 16,981 19,635 Adjustment on currency translation 188 102 749 42 1,081 371 f Adjustments to mining properties note 14 changes in estimate 391 391 1,869 change in discount rate 1,136 Charged credited to profit: increases to existing provisions 449 430 117 175 1,171 819 new provisions 111 2 342 455 339 change in discount rate 130 unused amounts reversed 7 144 18 169 137 exchange gains on provisions 8 8 5 amortisation of discount 3 374 377 451 Utilised in year 635 369 301 201 1,506 1,535 Actuarial losses recognised in equity 2,204 2,204 375 Newly consolidated operations note 37 1 17 18 87 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 24 8 247 19 260 93 Transfers to assets held for sale 4 97 3 104 135 Transfers and other movements 4 13 4 7 20 56 At 31 December 3,599 941 8,582 959 14,081 16,981 Statement of financial position analysis: Current 130 747 467 394 1,738 1,539 Non-current 3,469 194 8,115 565 12,343 15,442 Total 3,599 941 8,582 959 14,081 16,981 a The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding payments in respect of those arrangements, are given in note 45. b The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$314 million 2012: US$347 million, based on the relevant entitlements in certain Group operations and includes US$193 million 2012: US$77 million of provision for redundancy and severance payments.
c The Groups policy on close down and restoration costs is described in note 1 k and in paragraph v under critical accounting policies and estimates on pages 125 and 129.
Close down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the end of the relevant operation.
Remaining lives of mines and infrastructure range from one to over 50 years with an average, weighted by closure provision, of around 21 years 2012: 21 years.
Although the ultimate cost to be incurred is uncertain, the Groups businesses estimate their respective costs based on feasibility and engineering studies using current restoration standards and techniques.
Provisions of US$8,582 million 2012: US$9,223 million for close down and restoration costs and environmental clean up obligations include estimates of the effect of future inflation and have been adjusted to reflect risk.
These estimates have been discounted to their present value at an average nominal rate of approximately four per cent per annum, based on an estimate of the long term, risk free, pre-tax cost of borrowing.
Before discounting, this provision is equivalent to some US$12.9 billion 2012: US$13.7 billion.
d Non-current provisions for close down and restoration environmental expenditure include amounts relating to environmental clean-up of US$327 million 2012: US$507 million expected to take place between one and five years from the statement of financial position date, and US$909 million 2012: US$793 million expected to take place later than five years after the statement of financial position date.
e Close down and restoration environmental liabilities at 31 December 2013 have not been adjusted for amounts of US$142 million 2012: US$198 million relating to insurance recoveries and other financial assets held for the purposes of meeting these obligations.
f Close down and restoration environmental remediation provisions decreased during 2012 following a Group wide review of estimated liabilities.
The review included a re-evaluation of the estimates of risk free discount rates in light of the impact of fiscal interventions and, where appropriate, of the probability weighting for the different remediation, closure or other activities required to achieve relinquishment.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 26 Provisions including post retirement benefits 27 Share capital Rio Tinto plc Pensions 2013 2012 2011 and post Other Close down Restated Number Number Number 2013 2012 2011 retirement employee and restoration Total Total million million million US$m US$m US$m a b c d e f healthcare entitlements environmental Other 2013 2012 Issued and fully paid up share capital of 10p each US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 1,425.376 1,453.400 1,529.004 230 234 246 At 1 January 6,205 873 9,223 680 16,981 19,635 a c Ordinary shares issued 0.001 Adjustment on currency translation 188 102 749 42 1,081 371 b Ordinary shares purchased but uncancelled on 1 January 1.800 f Adjustments to mining properties note 14 b Own shares purchased and cancelled 26.224 75.604 4 12 changes in estimate 391 391 1,869 At 31 December 1,425.377 1,425.376 1,453.400 230 230 234 change in discount rate 1,136 Charged credited to profit: Shares held by public increases to existing provisions 449 430 117 175 1,171 819 At 1 January 1,411.257 1,436.542 1,526.305 new provisions 111 2 342 455 339 a Shares reissued from treasury 1.437 0.939 0.875 change in discount rate 130 b Shares purchased and cancelled 26.224 75.604 unused amounts reversed 7 144 18 169 137 c Shares purchased and held in treasury 13.234 exchange gains on provisions 8 8 5 b Shares purchased and awaiting cancellation 1.800 amortisation of discount 3 374 377 451 a c Ordinary shares issued during 2013 0.001 Utilised in year 635 369 301 201 1,506 1,535 At 31 December 1,412.695 1,411.257 1,436.542 Actuarial losses recognised in equity 2,204 2,204 375 Newly consolidated operations note 37 1 17 18 87 b Shares repurchased and held in treasury 12.682 14.119 15.058 Subsidiaries no longer consolidated 24 8 247 19 260 93 b Shares repurchased and awaiting cancellation 1.800 Transfers to assets held for sale 4 97 3 104 135 Shares held by public 1,412.695 1,411.257 1,436.542 Transfers and other movements 4 13 4 7 20 56 Total share capital 1,425.377 1,425.376 1,453.400 At 31 December 3,599 941 8,582 959 14,081 16,981 Statement of financial position analysis: Other share classes Current 130 747 467 394 1,738 1,539 d Special Voting Share of 10p each 1 only 1 only 1 only Non-current 3,469 194 8,115 565 12,343 15,442 d DLC Dividend Share of 10p each 1 only 1 only 1 only Total 3,599 941 8,582 959 14,081 16,981 d Equalisation Share of 10p each 1 only 1 only 1 only a The main assumptions used to determine the provision for pensions and post retirement healthcare, and other information, including the expected level of future funding payments a 951 Ordinary shares were issued in 2013 under the Global Employee Share Plan.
1,436,542 Ordinary shares were reissued from treasury during the year resulting from the exercise in respect of those arrangements, are given in note 45. of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans, with exercise prices between 10.43p and 35.76p per share 2012: no new ordinary shares were issued, and b The provision for other employee entitlements includes a provision for long service leave of US$314 million 2012: US$347 million, based on the relevant entitlements in certain 939,423 Ordinary shares reissued from treasury with exercise prices between 10.43p and 39.46p per share: 2011: no new ordinary shares issued and 875,057 Ordinary shares Group operations and includes US$193 million 2012: US$77 million of provision for redundancy and severance payments.
reissued from treasury with exercise prices between 10.43p and 47.12p per share.
Close b The authority for the Company to buy back its Ordinary shares was renewed at the 2013 annual general meeting.
From January to March 2012 26,223,910 shares were bought down and restoration costs are a normal consequence of mining, and the majority of close down and restoration expenditure is incurred at the end of the relevant operation.
Remaining back and cancelled and 1,800,000 shares purchased and awaiting cancellation at 31 December 2012 were cancelled.
No shares were bought back and held in treasury in 2013. lives of mines and infrastructure range from one to over 50 years with an average, weighted by closure provision, of around 21 years 2012: 21 years.
Provisions c The aggregate consideration for new shares issued under the Global Employee Share Plan was US$45 million 2012: US$39 million: 2011: US$48 million.
The difference between of US$8,582 million 2012: US$9,223 million for close down and restoration costs and environmental clean up obligations include estimates of the effect of future inflation and have the nominal value and the issue price of the shares issued was credited to the share premium account.
The aggregate consideration received for treasury shares reissued was been adjusted to reflect risk.
These estimates have been discounted to their present value at an average nominal rate of approximately four per cent per annum, based on an estimate US$80 million.
No new shares were issued as a result of the exercise of options under Rio Tinto plc employee share based payment plans in 2013, 2012 and 2011. of the long term, risk free, pre-tax cost of borrowing.
d The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited on Joint Decisions, following the DLC merger.
Directors have d Non-current provisions for close down and restoration environmental expenditure include amounts relating to environmental clean-up of US$327 million 2012: US$507 million the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
The DLC Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient expected to take place between one and five years from the statement of financial position date, and US$909 million 2012: US$793 million expected to take place later than five management of funds within the DLC structure.
years after the statement of financial position date.
During 2013, US$42 million of shares and ADRs 2012: US$41 million of shares: 2011: US$86 million of shares were purchased by employee share ownership e Close down and restoration environmental liabilities at 31 December 2013 have not been adjusted for amounts of US$142 million 2012: US$198 million relating to insurance trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc to satisfy future share options and awards as they vest.
At 31 December 2013 715,300 shares and 4,184 ADRs were held in the recoveries and other financial assets held for the purposes of meeting these obligations.
employee share ownership trusts on behalf of Rio Tinto plc.
The review included a re-evaluation of the estimates of risk free discount rates in light of the impact of fiscal interventions and, where appropriate, of the probability weighting for the different remediation, closure or other Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 44 on share based payments.
activities required to achieve relinquishment.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 28 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 2013 2012 2011 Number Number Number 2013 2012 2011 million million million US$m US$m US$m Issued and fully paid up share capital At 1 January 435.76 435.76 435.76 5,715 5,582 5,601 Adjustment on currency translation 804 133 19 At 31 December 435.76 435.76 435.76 4,911 5,715 5,582 a Special Voting Share 1 only 1 only 1 only a DLC Dividend Share 1 only 1 only 1 only a Total share capital 435.76 435.76 435.76 a The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC merger.
Directors have the ability to issue an Equalisation Share if that is required under the terms of the DLC Merger Sharing Agreement.
The DLC Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient management of funds within the DLC structure.
Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2013 under various Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied by the on-market purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Groups behalf.
Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 44 on share based payments.
29 Other reserves and retained earnings Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m a Capital redemption reserve At 1 January 28 24 12 Own shares purchased and cancelled 4 12 At 31 December 28 28 24 b Hedging reserves At 1 January 68 44 155 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 149 60 84 Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge gains losses transferred to the income statement 69 47 81 Net movement on equity accounted units cash flow hedges 2 Tax on the above 9 11 56 At 31 December 3 68 44 c Available for sale revaluation reserves At 1 January 179 193 427 Losses on available for sale securities 67 25 238 Losses gains on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 146 355 19 Tax on the above 17 8 23 At 31 December 117 179 193 d Other reserves At 1 January 11,778 11,765 11,785 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options 77 62 71 Employee share options: value of services 64 78 71 Deferred tax on share options 1 3 20 At 31 December 11,766 11,778 11,765 e Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 3,309 2,807 3,574 Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 2,138 664 878 Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments 44 158 55 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 81 3 46 Tax on the above 17 1 10 At 31 December 1,191 3,309 2,807 Total other reserves per statement of financial position 12,871 14,868 14,745 156 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 2013 2012 2011 28 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited US$m US$m US$m 2013 2012 2011 f Retained earnings Number Number Number 2013 2012 2011 million million million US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 21,496 27,430 32,499 Issued and fully paid up share capital Adjustment in relation to IFRS restatements 441 At 1 January 435.76 435.76 435.76 5,715 5,582 5,601 Parent and subsidiaries profit loss for the year 2,796 3,859 4,923 Adjustment on currency translation 804 133 19 Equity accounted units profit after tax for the year 869 831 912 g At 31 December 435.76 435.76 435.76 4,911 5,715 5,582 Actuarial gains losses 2,211 311 1,799 a Special Voting Share 1 only 1 only 1 only Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 631 72 479 a DLC Dividend Share 1 only 1 only 1 only Total comprehensive income loss for the year 5,245 3,267 4,515 a Total share capital 435.76 435.76 435.76 Share buyback scheme 764 6,210 Dividends paid 3,322 3,038 2,236 a The Special Voting Share was issued to facilitate the joint voting by shareholders of Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc on Joint Decisions following the DLC merger.
The DLC Dividend Share was issued to facilitate the efficient Change in equity interest held by Rio Tinto 102 1,128 793 management of funds within the DLC structure.
h Own shares purchased treasury shares reissued for share options and other items 11 38 10 Share options exercised during the year to 31 December 2013 under various Rio Tinto Limited employee share option schemes were satisfied by the on-market Employee share options and other IFRS 2 charges taken to the income statement 73 45 86 purchase of Rio Tinto Limited shares by a third party on the Groups behalf.
At 31 December 23,605 21,496 27,430 Information relating to share options and other share based incentive schemes is given in note 44 on share based payments.
a The capital redemption reserve was set up to comply with section 733 of the Companies Act 2006 previously 170 of the Companies Act 1985 when shares of a company are redeemed or purchased wholly out of the companys profits.
Balances reflect the amount by which the Companys issued share capital is diminished in accordance with this section.
29 Other reserves and retained earnings b The hedging reserve records gains or losses on cash flow hedges that are recognised initially in equity, as described in note 1 p iii.
Restated Restated c The available for sale revaluation reserves record fair value gains or losses relating to available for sale securities, as described in note 1 p i d. 2013 2012 2011 d Other reserves include the cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in Rio Tinto Limited, less, where applicable, US$m US$m US$m the cost of shares purchased to satisfy share options exercised.
The cumulative amount recognised under IFRS 2 in respect of options granted but not exercised to acquire shares in a Capital redemption reserve Rio Tinto plc is recorded in retained earnings.
At 1 January 28 24 12 Other reserves also include US$11,936 million which represents the difference between the nominal value and issue price of the shares issued arising from Rio Tinto plcs rights issue completed in July 2009.
No share premium was recorded in the Rio Tinto plc financial statements through the operation of the merger relief provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
Own shares purchased and cancelled 4 12 e Exchange differences arising on the translation of the Groups net investment in foreign controlled companies are taken to the foreign currency translation reserve, as described in At 31 December 28 28 24 note 1 d. The cumulative differences relating to an investment are transferred to the income statement when the investment is disposed of.
f Retained earnings and movements in reserves of subsidiaries include those arising from the Groups share of joint operations.
b Hedging reserves g In 2013, there were no actuarial losses relating to equity accounted units 2012: US$nil: 2011: US$5 million.
At 1 January 68 44 155 h In 2011, this is stated net of a US$95 million reclassification between share premium and retained earnings, relating to the weighted average cost of shares held that was applied Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge fair value gains losses 149 60 84 to the sale of shares in Rio Tinto plc to Rio Tinto Limited, and for the satisfaction of share options, in prior periods.
Parent and subsidiaries net cash flow hedge gains losses transferred to the income statement 69 47 81 Net movement on equity accounted units cash flow hedges 2 Tax on the above 9 11 56 At 31 December 3 68 44 c Available for sale revaluation reserves At 1 January 179 193 427 Losses on available for sale securities 67 25 238 Losses gains on available for sale securities transferred to the income statement 146 355 19 Tax on the above 17 8 23 At 31 December 117 179 193 d Other reserves At 1 January 11,778 11,765 11,785 Own shares purchased from Rio Tinto Limited shareholders to satisfy share options 77 62 71 Employee share options: value of services 64 78 71 Deferred tax on share options 1 3 20 At 31 December 11,766 11,778 11,765 e Foreign currency translation reserve At 1 January 3,309 2,807 3,574 Parent and subsidiaries currency translation and exchange adjustments 2,138 664 878 Equity accounted units currency translation adjustments 44 158 55 Currency translation reclassified on disposal 81 3 46 Tax on the above 17 1 10 At 31 December 1,191 3,309 2,807 Total other reserves per statement of financial position 12,871 14,868 14,745 157 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and joint operations, and excludes those of equity accounted units.
The information is grouped in the following sections: A Financial assets and liabilities by categories B Derivative financial instruments C Fair values A a Financial assets and liabilities by categories Held to maturity assets other Loans and Available for Held at fair financial Total receivables sale securities value liabilities At 31 December 2013 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 21 10,216 10,216 a Trade and other receivables 5,412 5,412 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 279 279 Other investments, including loans 20 506 179 322 5 b Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges 20 21 21 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: b not designated as hedges 20 253 253 b Derivatives related to net debt 20,22,24 192 192 Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 370 370 Total financial assets 17,249 16,177 279 788 5 Financial liabilities c Trade and other payables 6,899 6,899 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 3,916 3,916 Medium and long term borrowings 22 24,544 24,544 b Derivatives related to net debt 22,24 19 19 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated b as hedges 22 22 22 Other financial liabilities 22 50 50 Total financial liabilities 35,450 41 35,409 158 158 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management Held to maturity Except where stated, the information given below relates to the financial instruments of the parent companies and their subsidiaries and joint operations, assets other and excludes those of equity accounted units.
The information is grouped in the following sections: Loans and Available for Held at fair financial Total receivables sale securities value liabilities A Financial assets and liabilities by categories At 31 December 2012 restated Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets B Derivative financial instruments Cash and cash equivalents 21 7,135 7,135 C Fair values a Trade and other receivables 6,201 6,201 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 369 369 A a Financial assets and liabilities by categories Other investments, including loans 20 539 172 367 Held to b maturity Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges 20 10 10 assets other Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: Loans and Available for Held at fair financial b Total receivables sale securities value liabilities not designated as hedges 20 86 86 b At 31 December 2013 Note US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivatives related to net debt 20,22,24 347 347 Financial assets Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 675 675 Cash and cash equivalents 21 10,216 10,216 Total financial assets 15,362 14,183 369 810 a Trade and other receivables 5,412 5,412 Equity shares and quoted funds 20 279 279 Financial liabilities Other investments, including loans 20 506 179 322 5 c Trade and other payables 7,944 7,944 b Currency and commodity contracts: designated as hedges 20 21 21 Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 2,175 2,175 Derivatives and embedded derivatives not related to net debt: Medium and long term borrowings 22 24,477 24,477 b not designated as hedges 20 253 253 b Derivatives related to net debt 22,24 53 53 b Derivatives related to net debt 20,22,24 192 192 Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated Loans to equity accounted units including quasi equity loans 370 370 b as hedges 22 141 141 Total financial assets 17,249 16,177 279 788 5 Other financial liabilities 22 58 58 Total financial liabilities 34,848 194 34,654 Financial liabilities a This excludes pension surpluses, prepayment of tolling charges to joint operations, other prepayments and specific items within other receivables and will therefore not agree c Trade and other payables 6,899 6,899 to note 18 Trade and other receivables.
Short term borrowings and bank overdrafts 22 3,916 3,916 b These financial assets and liabilities in aggregate agree to total derivative financial instruments disclosed in notes 20 Other financial assets and 22 Borrowings and other Medium and long term borrowings 22 24,544 24,544 financial liabilities.
b Derivatives related to net debt 22,24 19 19 c Trade and other payables excludes deferred income, Government grants, royalties, mining taxes and employee entitlements and will therefore not agree to note 25 Trade and other payables.
Other derivatives and embedded derivatives not designated b as hedges 22 22 22 A b Financial risk management Other financial liabilities 22 50 50 Funding and exposure management Total financial liabilities 35,450 41 35,409 The Groups policies on financial risk management are clearly defined and consistently applied.
They are a fundamental part of the Groups long term strategy covering areas such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, commodity price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital management.
The Group mainly sells commodities it has produced and also enters into third party transactions and physical swaps on alumina to balance the regional positions and to balance the loading on production facilities.
The Group has a diverse portfolio of commodities and operates in a number of markets, which have varying responses to the economic cycle.
The relationship between commodity prices and the currencies of most of the countries in which the Group operates provides a further natural hedge in the long term.
Production of minerals, aluminium and alumina is an important contributor to the Gross Domestic Products of Australia and Canada, countries in which the Group has a large presence.
As a consequence, the Australian and Canadian currencies have historically tended to strengthen when commodity prices are high.
In addition, US dollar floating interest rates have historically also tended to be high when commodity prices are high, and vice versa, and hence the Groups interest rate policy is to generally borrow and invest, after the impact of hedging, at floating interest rates.
However, in some circumstances, the Group elects to maintain a higher proportion of fixed rate funding.
These natural hedges significantly reduce the necessity for using derivatives or other forms of synthetic hedging.
Such hedging is therefore undertaken to a strictly limited degree, as described below.
Treasury operations Treasury operates as a service to the businesses of the Group and not as a profit centre.
Strict limits on the size and type of transactions permitted are laid down by the Board and are subject to rigorous internal controls.
Senior management is advised of corporate cash and debt positions, as well as commodity, currency interest rate and interest rate derivatives through a monthly reporting framework.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued Treasury policy Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has material exposure to such trading or speculative holdings through its investments in joint arrangements and associates.
Derivatives are used to separate funding and cash management decisions from currency exposure and interest rate management.
Bank counterparty exposures are managed within allocated credit limits.
Investment, funding and cash management activities are managed and co-ordinated by Treasury.
i Foreign exchange risk Management policy The Groups shareholders equity, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups sales and the countries in which it operates.
The US dollar, however, is the currency in which the majority of the Groups sales are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies of those countries where the Groups mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment and services are determined.
The Australian and Canadian dollars are the most important currencies apart from the US dollar influencing costs.
In any particular year, currency fluctuations may have a significant impact on Rio Tintos financial results.
A strengthening of the US dollar against the currencies in which the Groups costs are partly determined has a positive effect on Rio Tintos Underlying earnings.
Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Groups affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented both internally and externally.
It is also the most appropriate currency for financing the Groups operations.
Borrowings and cash are predominantly denominated in US dollars, either directly or through the use of derivatives.
Certain US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities, including intragroup balances, are not held in the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
This results in an accounting exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currency of the subsidiary that holds those assets and liabilities.
These exchange gains and losses are recorded in the Groups income statement except to the extent that they can be taken to equity under the Groups accounting policy which is explained in note 1 d. Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and on intragroup balances are excluded from Underlying earnings.
Other exchange gains and losses are included in Underlying earnings.
See section B for the details of cross currency interest rate and interest rate swaps relating to borrowings.
After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all of the Groups net debt is denominated in US dollars.
The table below summarises, by currency, the net debt, after taking into account relevant currency swaps: EAU funded Total Derivatives balances Restated Cash and cash borrowings related to excluded from Net debt Net debt equivalents in note 22 net debt net debt 2013 2012 Net debt funds by currency US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m United States dollar 9,110 26,642 173 17,359 18,629 Australian dollar 561 953 16 376 217 Euro 64 282 218 177 South African rand 193 394 201 258 Canadian dollar 70 185 115 153 Pound sterling 96 1 95 100 Other 122 3 119 142 Total 10,216 28,460 173 16 18,055 19,192 Hedging strategy Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long term benefits to shareholders.
The Group reviews its exposure on a regular basis and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial stability.
Currency protection measures may be deemed appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, typically hedging of significant financial items such as acquisitions, disposals, tax and dividends, and are subject to strict limits laid down by the Board.
A monthly treasury report is provided to senior management which summarises corporate debt exposed to currency risks after the impact of derivatives.
Refer to section B for the details of currency forward, cross currency interest rate and option contracts used to manage the currency risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2013.
Sensitivities The table below gives the estimated retranslation effect on financial assets and financial liabilities of a ten per cent strengthening in the closing exchange rate of the US dollar against significant currencies.
The sensitivity associated with a ten per cent weakening of a particular currency would be equal and opposite to the figures presented.
The impact is expressed in terms of the effect on net earnings, Underlying earnings and equity, assuming that each exchange rate moves in isolation.
The sensitivities are based on financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December 2013, where balances are not denominated in the functional currency of the subsidiary or joint operation, and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity accounted units.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2014, and therefore the following information should be used with care.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued At 31 December 2013 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued Gains losses associated with 10% strengthening of the US dollar Treasury policy Of which Rio Tinto does not acquire or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes: nor does it believe that it has material exposure to such amount trading or speculative holdings through its investments in joint arrangements and associates.
Derivatives are used to separate funding and cash management impacting Impact decisions from currency exposure and interest rate management.
Investment, funding Closing Effect on underlying directly and cash management activities are managed and co-ordinated by Treasury.
exchange rate net earnings earnings on equity Currency Exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m i Foreign exchange risk Australian dollar 89 1,442 21 20 Management policy Canadian dollar 94 3,077 30 The Groups shareholders equity, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the Groups sales and the South African rand 12 4 1 2 countries in which it operates.
Operating costs are influenced by Euro 138 372 22 6 the currencies of those countries where the Groups mines and processing plants are located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported equipment New Zealand dollar 82 51 and services are determined.
A strengthening of the US dollar against the currencies in which the Groups At 31 December 2012 restated costs are partly determined has a positive effect on Rio Tintos Underlying earnings.
Gains losses associated with 10% strengthening of the US dollar Given the dominant role of the US currency in the Groups affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which financial results are presented both internally and externally.
Of which It is also the most appropriate currency for financing the Groups operations.
Borrowings and cash are predominantly denominated in US dollars, either directly or amount through the use of derivatives.
impacting Impact Closing Effect on underlying directly Certain US dollar debt and other financial assets and liabilities, including intragroup balances, are not held in the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
exchange rate net earnings earnings on equity Currency Exposure US cents US$m US$m US$m This results in an accounting exposure to exchange gains and losses as the financial assets and liabilities are translated into the functional currency of the subsidiary Australian dollar 104 799 90 1 that holds those assets and liabilities.
These exchange gains and losses are recorded in the Groups income statement except to the extent that they can be taken Canadian dollar 100 1,436 32 1 to equity under the Groups accounting policy which is explained in note 1 d. Gains and losses on US dollar net debt and on intragroup balances are excluded from South African rand 12 3 1 Underlying earnings.
Euro 132 28 31 See section B for the details of cross currency interest rate and interest rate swaps relating to borrowings.
New Zealand dollar 82 54 After taking into account relevant swap instruments, almost all of the Groups net debt is denominated in US dollars.
The table below summarises, by currency, Ten per cent is the maximum annual exchange rate movement that management deems to be reasonably probable on an annual basis over the long run for one of the net debt, after taking into account relevant currency swaps: the Groups significant currencies and as such provides an appropriate representation.
EAU funded ii Interest rate risk Total Derivatives balances Restated Cash and cash borrowings related to excluded from Net debt Net debt Management policy equivalents in note 22 net debt net debt 2013 2012 Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of a financial instrument or cash flows associated with the instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market Net debt funds by currency US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m interest rates.
The Groups interest rate management policy is generally to borrow and invest at floating interest rates.
This approach is based on historical United States dollar 9,110 26,642 173 17,359 18,629 correlation between interest rates and commodity prices.
In some circumstances, the Group may consider a higher proportion of fixed rate funding to be appropriate.
Australian dollar 561 953 16 376 217 Hedging strategy Euro 64 282 218 177 As noted above, the Group may hedge its interest rate risk by entering into interest rate derivatives to achieve its policies.
The market value of such instruments South African rand 193 394 201 258 moves in alignment with the market and at times can act as an alternative source of funding.
The Group reviews the positions on a regular basis and may act to Canadian dollar 70 185 115 153 monetise in-the-money instruments either to take advantage of favourable market conditions or manage counterparty credit risk.
During 2013, no interest rate Pound sterling 96 1 95 100 swaps were closed out.
During 2012, the Group closed out interest rate swaps with a notional principal of US$200 million giving rise to a net cash inflow of US$3 Other 122 3 119 142 million including accrued interest of US$3 million.
The interest rate swaps closed out in 2012 were in fair value hedge relationships prior to close out.
See section Total 10,216 28,460 173 16 18,055 19,192 B for the details of currency and interest rate swaps relating to borrowings.
Hedging strategy At the end of 2013, US$20.4 billion 2012: US$17.7 billion of the Groups adjusted total borrowings was at fixed rates after taking into account interest and currency Under normal market conditions, the Group does not generally believe that active currency hedging of transactions would provide long term benefits to shareholders.
interest rate swaps, resulting in a fixed to floating debt ratio of 72 per cent fixed to 28 per cent floating 2012: 67 per cent fixed to 33 per cent floating.
On a net The Group reviews its exposure on a regular basis and reserves the right to enter into hedges to maintain financial stability.
Currency protection measures may debt basis, the fixed to floating debt ratio was 111 per cent fixed liability to 11 per cent floating asset 2012: 91 per cent fixed liability to 9 per cent floating liability.
be deemed appropriate in specific commercial circumstances, typically hedging of significant financial items such as acquisitions, disposals, tax and dividends, The weighted average interest rate on total adjusted borrowings as at 31 December 2013 was 3.8 per cent 2012: 4 per cent and the weighted average maturity was and are subject to strict limits laid down by the Board.
A monthly treasury report is provided to senior management which summarises corporate debt exposed 8 years 2012: 9 years.
Weighted average effective interest rate is based on interest rates and carrying value of gross borrowings at the year end.
Current interest to currency risks after the impact of derivatives.
Refer to section B for the details of currency forward, cross currency interest rate and option contracts used to rates are applied for debt at floating rates.
manage the currency risk exposures of the Group at 31 December 2013.
The net debt ratio at the end of 2013 and 2012 reflects the high level of cash, cash equivalents and other liquid resources held by the Group and the impact Sensitivities of borrowings held at fixed rates.
The table below gives the estimated retranslation effect on financial assets and financial liabilities of a ten per cent strengthening in the closing exchange rate of the See note 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities for the details of debt outstanding at 31 December 2013.
US dollar against significant currencies.
Sensitivities The sensitivities are based on financial assets and financial liabilities held at 31 December 2013, where balances are not denominated in the functional currency of Based on the Groups net debt refer to note 24 and other floating rate financial instruments outstanding as at 31 December 2013, the effect on net earnings the subsidiary or joint operation, and exclude financial assets and liabilities held by equity accounted units.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2014, of a half percentage point increase in US dollar LIBOR interest rates, with all other variables held constant, would be an increase of US$9 million 2012: decrease and therefore the following information should be used with care.
of US$9 million reflecting the high level of cash at the period end.
The Group has an exposure to interest rate volatility within shareholders equity arising from fair value movements on derivatives in the cash flow reserve.
The derivatives have an underlying exposure to Pound sterling and US dollar rates.
With all factors remaining constant and based on the composition of derivatives impacting the cash flow reserve at 31 December 2013, the sensitivity of a 100 basis point increase in interest rates in each of the currencies in isolation would impact equity, before tax, by US$106 million charge 2012: US$126 million charge for Pound sterling and US$101 million credit 2012: US$125 million credit for US dollar.
A 100 basis point decrease would have broadly the same impact in the opposite direction.
These balances will not remain constant throughout 2014, and therefore this information should be used with care.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued iii Commodity price risk Management policy The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the board and to rigid internal controls.
Metals such as copper and aluminium are generally sold under contracts which vary in tenure and pricing mechanisms, with some volumes sold in the spot market.
The prices are determined by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange LME and COMEX in New York.
Prices fluctuate widely in response to changing levels of supply and demand but, in the long run, prices are related to the marginal cost of supply.
Gold is also priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and sought.
Newly mined gold is only one source of supply: investment and disinvestment can be important elements of supply and demand.
Contract prices for many other natural resource products including coal are generally agreed quarterly or for longer periods with customers, although volume commitments vary by product.
Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate, are provisionally priced, that is the selling price is determined normally 30 to 180 days after delivery to the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is recognised on provisionally priced sales based on estimates of fair value of the consideration receivable which is based on forward market prices.
At each reporting date provisionally priced metal sales are marked to market based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose the selling price can be measured reliably for those products such as copper concentrate for which the price is directly related to the price of copper for which an active and freely traded commodity market exists, such as the LME, and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
At the end of 2013, the Group had 254 million pounds of copper sales 2012: 249 million pounds that were provisionally priced at US 333 cents per pound 2012: US 360 cents per pound.
The final price of these sales will be determined during the first half of 2014.
A ten per cent change in the price of copper realised on the provisionally priced sales would increase or reduce net earnings by US$49 million 2012: US$56 million.
Hedging strategy Rio Tintos exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad commodity base and the Group does not generally believe commodity price hedging would provide a long term benefit to shareholders.
The Group may hedge certain commitments with some of its customers or suppliers.
Details of commodity derivatives held at 31 December 2013 are set out in section B. Sensitivities The Groups commodity derivatives are impacted by changes in market prices and include those aluminium forward and option contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December 2013.
A ten per cent increase in market prices would reduce net earnings by US$164 million 2012: US$144 million and a ten per cent decrease in prices would increase net earnings by US$93 million 2012: US$125 million.
A ten per cent change in prices would impact equity, before tax, by US$8 million 2012: US$13 million.
The Groups own use contracts are excluded from the sensitivity analysis as they are outside the scope of IAS 39.
Such contracts to buy or sell non financial items can be net settled but were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non financial item in accordance with the business units expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
The sensitivity does not include the impact arising from derivatives held by equity accounted units.
Including equity accounted units primarily impacts the sensitivity to a 10 per cent increase in aluminium prices and would result in a US$59 million reduction in net earnings 2012: US$59 million.
iv Credit risk Treasury management policy Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily from customer receivables and from its financing activities, including investments in government securities, deposits with banks and financial institutions, other short term investments, interest rate and currency derivative contracts and other financial instruments.
Credit risks related to receivables Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk management.
Credit limits are established for all customers based on internal or external rating criteria.
Where customers are rated by an independent credit rating agency, these ratings are used to set credit limits.
In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, the credit quality of the customer is assessed based on an extensive credit rating scorecard.
Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored and any credit concerns highlighted to senior management.
High risk shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
At 31 December 2013, the Group had approximately 120 customers 2012: 80 customers that owed the Group more than US$5 million each and these balances accounted for approximately 93 per cent 2012: 68 per cent of all receivables owing.
There were 46 customers 2012: 25 customers with balances greater than US$20 million accounting for just over 65 per cent 2012: just over 48 per cent of total amounts receivable.
Details of trade and other receivables past due but not impaired are provided in Note 18.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets refer to table of financial assets and liabilities reported above.
The Group does not hold collateral as security for any trade receivables.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Credit risk related to financial instruments and cash deposits 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued Credit risk from investments in government securities primarily US Government treasuries and funds or AAA rated money market funds and balances with banks iii Commodity price risk and financial institutions is managed by Group Treasury in accordance with a board approved policy.
Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved Management policy counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty mainly based upon specific assessment criteria.
Counterparty credit limits are reviewed by The Groups normal policy is to sell its products at prevailing market prices.
Exceptions to this rule are subject to strict limits laid down by the board and to rigid the Rio Tinto board at least annually.
The limits are set to minimise the concentration of credit risk and therefore mitigate the potential for financial loss through internal controls.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the Groups financial assets at the balance sheet date is as follows: The prices are determined by reference to prevailing market prices on terminal markets, such as the London Metal Exchange LME and COMEX in New York.
Gold is also Restated priced in an active market in which prices respond to daily changes in quantities offered and sought.
Newly mined gold is only one source of supply: investment 2013 2012 Note US$m US$m and disinvestment can be important elements of supply and demand.
Contract prices for many other natural resource products including coal are generally agreed Cash and cash equivalents 21 10,216 7,135 quarterly or for longer periods with customers, although volume commitments vary by product.
Trade and other receivables 5,412 6,201 Certain products, predominantly copper concentrate, are provisionally priced, that is the selling price is determined normally 30 to 180 days after delivery to Investments 20 506 539 the customer, based on the market price at the relevant quotation point stipulated in the contract.
Revenue is recognised on provisionally priced sales based on Derivative assets 20 466 443 estimates of fair value of the consideration receivable which is based on forward market prices.
At each reporting date provisionally priced metal sales are marked Total 16,600 14,318 to market based on the forward selling price for the period stipulated in the contract.
For this purpose the selling price can be measured reliably for those products such as copper concentrate for which the price is directly related to the price of copper for which an active and freely traded commodity market exists, such as the v Liquidity and Capital risk management LME, and the value of product sold by the Group is directly linked to the form in which it is traded on that market.
Management policy The marking to market of provisionally priced sales contracts is recorded as an adjustment to sales revenue.
The Groups overriding objective when managing capital is to safeguard the business as a going concern whilst maximising returns for shareholders.
In practice, this involves regular reviews by the board and senior management.
These reviews take into account the Groups strategic priorities, economic and business conditions At the end of 2013, the Group had 254 million pounds of copper sales 2012: 249 million pounds that were provisionally priced at US 333 cents per pound and opportunities that are identified to invest across all points of the commodities cycle, and the focus on the progressive dividend policy, whilst also striving to 2012: US 360 cents per pound.
A ten per cent change in the price of copper realised maintain the Groups Acredit rating.
The resulting capital structure provides the Group with a high degree of financial flexibility at a low cost of capital.
on the provisionally priced sales would increase or reduce net earnings by US$49 million 2012: US$56 million.
To maintain an Acredit rating, the Group considers various financial metrics including the overall level of borrowings and their maturity profile, liquidity levels, Hedging strategy total capital, cash flow, EBITDA and interest cover ratios either on a statutory reported basis or as expected to be adjusted by the credit rating agencies.
Rio Tintos exposure to commodity prices is diversified by virtue of its broad commodity base and the Group does not generally believe commodity price hedging would provide a long term benefit to shareholders.
Details The Groups total capital, which is defined as equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus equity attributable to non-controlling interests plus net debt, amounted of commodity derivatives held at 31 December 2013 are set out in section B. to US$71.6 billion at 31 December 2013 2012: US$76.9 billion.
Restated Sensitivities 2013 2012 The Groups commodity derivatives are impacted by changes in market prices and include those aluminium forward and option contracts embedded in electricity Total capital US$m US$m purchase contracts outstanding at 31 December 2013.
A ten per cent increase in market prices would reduce net earnings by US$164 million 2012: US$144 million Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto see Group statement of financial position 45,886 46,553 and a ten per cent decrease in prices would increase net earnings by US$93 million 2012: US$125 million.
A ten per cent change in prices would impact equity, Equity attributable to non-controlling interests see Group statement of financial position 7,616 11,187 before tax, by US$8 million 2012: US$13 million.
Net debt note 24 18,055 19,192 The Groups own use contracts are excluded from the sensitivity analysis as they are outside the scope of IAS 39.
Such contracts to buy or sell non financial items Total capital 71,557 76,932 can be net settled but were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of the non financial item in accordance with the business units expected purchase, sale or usage requirements.
Including Net debt is a measure used by management and the board of directors to manage the Groups capital structure and therefore is linked to the Groups financial equity accounted units primarily impacts the sensitivity to a 10 per cent increase in aluminium prices and would result in a US$59 million reduction in net earnings and operational excellence strategic driver.
Net debt is disclosed and defined in note 24.
Net debt decreased from US$19.2 billion at 31 December 2012 to 2012: US$59 million.
US$18.1 billion at 31 December 2013 as operating cash inflows and divestment proceeds were partly offset by outflows relating to capital expenditure and the increase in the dividend.
Net debt to total capital was 25 per cent at 31 December 2013 2012: 25 per cent and interest cover was 13 times 2012: 13 times.
iv Credit risk Treasury management policy The unified credit status of the Group is maintained through cross guarantees whereby contractual obligations of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited are Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss.
automatically guaranteed by the other.
The table below summarises the credit ratings attributed to the Group as at 31 December.
The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities primarily from customer receivables and from its financing activities, including investments 2013 2012 in government securities, deposits with banks and financial institutions, other short term investments, interest rate and currency derivative contracts and Standard & Poors S&P other financial instruments.
Long term rating AACredit risks related to receivables Short term rating A-2 A-2 Customer credit risk is managed by each business unit subject to the Groups established policy, procedures and controls relating to customer credit risk a Outlook Negative Stable management.
In circumstances where no independent credit rating exists, the credit quality of the customer is assessed based Moodys on an extensive credit rating scorecard.
Long term rating A3 A3 High risk shipments to major customers are generally covered by letters of credit or other forms of credit insurance.
Short term rating P-2 P-2 At 31 December 2013, the Group had approximately 120 customers 2012: 80 customers that owed the Group more than US$5 million each and these balances Outlook Stable Stable accounted for approximately 93 per cent 2012: 68 per cent of all receivables owing.
There were 46 customers 2012: 25 customers with balances greater than a On 27 February 2014, S&P revised its Rio Tinto outlook to stable.
US$20 million accounting for just over 65 per cent 2012: just over 48 per cent of total amounts receivable.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued The Group has access to various forms of financing including but not limited to, Capital markets as well as the bank market.
In June 2013, under its US Shelf Programme, the Group issued four Rio Tinto Finance USA plc bonds: US$1,000 million 1.375% bond due 2016, US$1,250 million 2.250% bond due 2018, US$250 million LIBOR plus 0.55% bond due 2015 and US$500 million LIBOR plus 0.840% bond due 2016.
In March 2012, under its US Shelf Programme, the Group issued four Rio Tinto Finance USA plc bonds: US$500 million 1.125% bond due 2015, US$500 million 2.000% bond due 2017, US$1,000 million 3.500% bond due 2022 and US$500 million 4.750% bond due 2042.
In August 2012, the Group issued three Rio Tinto Finance USA plc bonds: US$1,250 million 1.625% bond due 2017, US$1,000 million 2.875% bond due 2022 and US$750 million 4.125% bond due 2042.
In December 2012, under its European Debt Issuance Programme, the Group issued three Rio Tinto Finance plc bonds: EUR750 million 2.00% bond due 2020, EUR500 million 2.875% bond due 2024 and GBP500 million 4.00% bond due 2029.
The Euro denominated bonds were swapped using cross currency interest rate swaps to US dollar floating rate bonds and the GBP bond was swapped to a US dollar fixed rate bond.
Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited entered into new facility agreements for the aggregate amount of US$7.5 billion on 15 November 2013 as borrowers with a syndicate of banks.
The facilities are guaranteed by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
The facilities comprise a US$1,875 million three-year multicurrency revolving credit facility and a US$5,625 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility including a US$ denominated same day access swingline facility.
Both facilities could be extended for one year on the first anniversary and for a further year on the second anniversary of the date of the facility agreements by mutual agreement of the parties to the agreement.
The funds made available under the facility agreements may be used for general corporate purposes of the Group.
The new facilities replace the US$6 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility dated 12 November 2010 and the US$2 billion bilateral bank facility agreements entered in the last quarter of 2012 which were closed out on 15 November 2013.
Advances under the revolving facilities bear an interest rate per annum equal to the margin which is dependent on the Groups long-term credit rating as determined by Moodys and Standard & Poors and the level of drawdown plus LIBOR or EURIBOR, CDOR or BBSW in relation to any Euro, Canadian dollar or Australian dollar loans plus a margin.
The facility agreements contain no financial covenants.
At 31 December 2013, the facilities were undrawn.
During the last quarter of 2012, the Group entered into bilateral bank facility agreements amounting to US$2 billion in aggregate.
The facilities were denominated in US dollars and had a term of one year that was extendable, at the Groups option, by a further 364 days.
Any borrowings under each facility were at prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group.
The facilities were not subject to financial covenants.
At 31 December 2012, the facilities were undrawn and subsequently closed out on 15 November 2013.
In November 2010, the Group entered into a US$6 billion multi-currency committed revolving credit facility maturing in November 2015 with its relationship banks.
Any borrowings under this facility were at prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group.
The facility was not subject to any financial covenants.
The overall agreement also enabled same day access to a US$ swing-line facility.
The funds available under the facility agreement could have been used for general corporate purposes of the Group.
At 31 December 2012, the facility was undrawn and subsequently closed out on 15 November 2013.
Further details of the Groups credit facilities are set out in note 22 of the 2013 financial statements.
In February 2011, the Group commenced a US$5 billion share buy-back programme.
During 2012, 26 million Rio Tinto plc shares were bought back at a total cost of US$1.5 billion which completed the programme in March 2012.
A c Financial liability analysis The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities by relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, these balances will not necessarily agree with the amounts disclosed in the statement of financial position.
At 31 December 2013 Within 1 Between Between Between Between year or on 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 After demand years years years years 5 years Total Outflows Inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 6,585 314 6,899 Borrowings before swaps 4,011 1,926 2,844 1,984 3,022 14,684 28,471 a Expected future interest payments 1,007 928 889 857 804 6,164 10,649 Other financial liabilities 39 67 18 1 1 126 b Derivative financial liabilities a Derivatives related to net debt net settled 5 5 a Derivatives related to net debt gross settled : gross inflows 516 20 20 20 20 797 1,393 gross outflows 510 12 12 12 12 720 1,278 Total 11,636 3,227 3,743 2,833 3,819 20,777 46,035 164 164 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued At 31 December 2012 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued Within 1 Between Between Between Between The Group has access to various forms of financing including but not limited to, Capital markets as well as the bank market.
In June 2013, under its US Shelf year or on 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 After Programme, the Group issued four Rio Tinto Finance USA plc bonds: US$1,000 million 1.375% bond due 2016, US$1,250 million 2.250% bond due 2018, demand years years years years 5 years Total US$250 million LIBOR plus 0.55% bond due 2015 and US$500 million LIBOR plus 0.840% bond due 2016.
In March 2012, under its US Shelf Programme, the Outflows Inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Group issued four Rio Tinto Finance USA plc bonds: US$500 million 1.125% bond due 2015, US$500 million 2.000% bond due 2017, US$1,000 million 3.500% Non-derivative financial liabilities bond due 2022 and US$500 million 4.750% bond due 2042.
In August 2012, the Group issued three Rio Tinto Finance USA plc bonds: US$1,250 million 1.625% Trade and other payables 7,737 207 7,944 bond due 2017, US$1,000 million 2.875% bond due 2022 and US$750 million 4.125% bond due 2042.
In December 2012, under its European Debt Issuance Borrowings before swaps 2,169 2,628 1,799 1,343 2,055 16,340 26,334 Programme, the Group issued three Rio Tinto Finance plc bonds: EUR750 million 2.00% bond due 2020, EUR500 million 2.875% bond due 2024 and GBP500 a Expected future interest payments 1,075 972 880 848 823 6,919 11,517 million 4.00% bond due 2029.
The Euro denominated bonds were swapped using cross currency interest rate swaps to US dollar floating rate bonds and Other financial liabilities 49 73 21 9 129 281 the GBP bond was swapped to a US dollar fixed rate bond.
b Derivative financial liabilities Rio Tinto Finance plc and Rio Tinto Finance Limited entered into new facility agreements for the aggregate amount of US$7.5 billion on 15 November 2013 as a b Derivatives related to net debt net settled borrowers with a syndicate of banks.
The facilities comprise a US$1,875 million three-year multia Derivatives related to net debt gross settled : currency revolving credit facility and a US$5,625 million five-year multi-currency revolving credit facility including a US$ denominated same day access swingline gross inflows 80 80 80 80 80 1,359 1,759 facility.
Both facilities could be extended for one year on the first anniversary and for a further year on the second anniversary of the date of the facility agreements gross outflows 71 71 71 71 71 1,297 1,652 by mutual agreement of the parties to the agreement.
The funds made available under the facility agreements may be used for general corporate purposes of the Total 11,021 3,871 2,691 2,182 2,878 23,326 45,969 Group.
The new facilities replace the US$6 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility dated 12 November 2010 and the US$2 billion bilateral bank facility agreements entered in the last quarter of 2012 which were closed out on 15 November 2013. a Interest payments have been projected using interest rates applicable at 31 December 2013.
Where debt is subject to variable interest rates, future interest payments are subject to change in line with market rates.
Advances under the revolving facilities bear an interest rate per annum equal to the margin which is dependent on the Groups long-term credit rating as b The maturity grouping is based on the earliest payment date.
determined by Moodys and Standard & Poors and the level of drawdown plus LIBOR or EURIBOR, CDOR or BBSW in relation to any Euro, Canadian dollar c The maximum carrying value of borrowings repayable, after the impact of swaps, maturing in any financial year is US$3.2 billion 2012: US$2.7 billion.
or Australian dollar loans plus a margin.
Offsetting and enforceable master netting agreements During the last quarter of 2012, the Group entered into bilateral bank facility agreements amounting to US$2 billion in aggregate.
Any borrowings under each facility were at prevailing Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group.
There were no material At 31 December 2012, the facilities were undrawn and subsequently closed out on 15 November 2013. amounts offset in the statement of financial position and no material enforceable master netting agreements.
B Derivative financial instruments Any borrowings under this facility were at prevailing LIBOR rates plus an agreed margin dependent on the amount of drawdown and the credit rating of the Group.
The Groups derivatives, including embedded derivatives, as at 31 December 2013, are summarised below: The facility was not subject to any financial covenants.
The funds available under Total fair Value the facility agreement could have been used for general corporate purposes of the Group.
At 31 December 2012, the facility was undrawn and subsequently closed Restated Restated out on 15 November 2013.
2013 2013 2012 2012 Asset Liability Asset Liability Further details of the Groups credit facilities are set out in note 22 of the 2013 financial statements.
Derivatives designated as hedges US$m US$m US$m US$m a In February 2011, the Group commenced a US$5 billion share buy-back programme.
During 2012, 26 million Rio Tinto plc shares were bought back at a total cost Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 21 10 of US$1.5 billion which completed the programme in March 2012. b Interest rate swaps 138 346 c Cross currency interest rate swaps 54 14 44 A c Financial liability analysis Total derivatives designated as hedges 213 14 356 44 The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities by relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period from the statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date.
Derivatives not designated as hedges US$m US$m US$m US$m Currency forward contracts and swaps 4 1 4 4 At 31 December 2013 d Aluminium forward contracts 6 19 29 57 Within 1 Between Between Between Between a year or on 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 After Aluminium options embedded in electricity purchase contracts 85 2 52 69 demand years years years years 5 years Total a Aluminium forward contracts embedded in electricity purchase contracts 128 Outflows Inflows US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Other commodity contracts 1 Non-derivative financial liabilities Other embedded derivatives 30 11 Trade and other payables 6,585 314 6,899 b Interest rate swaps 1 Borrowings before swaps 4,011 1,926 2,844 1,984 3,022 14,684 28,471 a Currency options embedded in borrowing contracts 5 9 Expected future interest payments 1,007 928 889 857 804 6,164 10,649 Total derivatives not designated as hedges 253 27 87 150 Other financial liabilities 39 67 18 1 1 126 b Derivative financial liabilities a Total derivative instruments 466 41 443 194 Derivatives related to net debt net settled 5 5 a Derivatives related to net debt gross settled : Analysed by maturity: gross inflows 516 20 20 20 20 797 1,393 Less than 1 year 63 10 29 23 gross outflows 510 12 12 12 12 720 1,278 Between 1 and 5 years 109 11 80 11 Total 11,636 3,227 3,743 2,833 3,819 20,777 46,035 More than 5 years 294 20 334 182 Total 466 41 443 194 Total net derivative instruments 425 249 164 165 165 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued 2012 2013 Reconciliation to statement of financial position US$m US$m non-current assets note 20 403 414 current assets note 20 63 29 current liabilities note 22 10 23 non-current liabilities note 22 31 171 Total net derivatives instruments, detailed above 425 249 a Aluminium embedded derivatives forward contracts and options are contained within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts.
These contracts reduce the Groups exposure to movements in the aluminium price.
b The interest rate swaps are used to convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate.
For further details, see note 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities.
c The cross currency interest rate swaps are used to convert non US dollar denominated borrowings to either fixed or floating US dollar borrowings.
For further details see note 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities.
d The aluminium forward contracts are entered into to convert aluminium sales made at a fixed price to LME cash and to hedge the sales from high cost smelters.
No ineffective portion arising from cash flow hedges was recognised in the income statement in 2013 2012: gain of US$6 million pre tax.
The aluminium forward contracts which were taken out to convert aluminium sales made as a fixed price to LME cash are not designated as hedges as they largely offset.
C Fair values The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates their fair value at 31 December are shown in the following table.
The fair values of the Groups cash, short term borrowings and loans to equity accounted units approximate their carrying values as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest see note 1 p. Restated 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value US$m US$m US$m US$m Short term borrowings note 22 3,916 3,924 2,175 2,194 Medium and long term borrowings note 22 24,544 25,746 24,477 27,274 Borrowings with a carrying value of US$25.2 billion 2012: US$24.3 billion relate to listed bonds with a fair value of US$26.2 billion 2012: US$26.8 billion and are categorised as level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
The remaining borrowings have a fair value measured by discounting estimated cash flows with an applicable market quoted yield and are categorised as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
C a Valuation hierarchy The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2013: Not held at a b c Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value Assets Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 279 139 79 15 46 d Other investments, including loans note 20 506 106 1 215 184 785 245 80 230 230 e Derivatives Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B 21 21 Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges Section B 231 2 19 210 Derivatives related to net debt Section B 173 173 1,210 247 272 461 230 166 166 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2012 restated : 30 Financial instruments and risk management continued 2012 2013 Not held at a b c Reconciliation to statement of financial position US$m US$m Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value non-current assets note 20 403 414 Assets current assets note 20 63 29 Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 369 289 27 12 41 current liabilities note 22 10 23 Other investments, including loans note 20 539 136 6 225 172 non-current liabilities note 22 31 171 908 425 33 237 213 e Total net derivatives instruments, detailed above 425 249 Derivatives Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B 10 10 a Aluminium embedded derivatives forward contracts and options are contained within certain aluminium smelter electricity purchase contracts.
Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges Section B 55 3 58 b The interest rate swaps are used to convert certain fixed rate borrowings to a floating rate.
Derivatives related to net debt Section B 294 294 c The cross currency interest rate swaps are used to convert non US dollar denominated borrowings to either fixed or floating US dollar borrowings.
For further details see note 22 1,157 425 330 189 213 Borrowings and other financial liabilities.
a Valuation is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial instruments.
This category includes listed equity shares and other quoted funds.
No ineffective portion b Valuation is based on inputs that are observable for the financial instruments which includes quoted prices for similar instruments or identical instruments in markets which arising from cash flow hedges was recognised in the income statement in 2013 2012: gain of US$6 million pre tax.
are not considered to be active or either directly or indirectly based on observable market data.
The aluminium forward contracts which were taken out to convert aluminium sales made as a fixed price to LME cash are not designated as hedges as they c Valuation is based on inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
d Other Investments, including loans comprise cash deposits in rehabilitation funds, government bonds, contingent consideration receivable from divested businesses and royalty amounts receivable.
The royalty receivables are valued based on an estimate of future production subject to the royalty agreement.
C Fair values e The net asset or liability derivative balance for the three different categories reconcile to the net asset and liability balances presented in section B.
The carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates their fair value at f Interest rate and currency interest rate swaps are valued using applicable market quoted swap yield curves adjusted for relevant basis and credit default spreads.
Currency interest 31 December are shown in the following table.
The fair values of the Groups cash, short term borrowings and loans to equity accounted units approximate rate swap valuations also use market quoted foreign exchange rates.
A discounted cash flow approach is applied to the cash flows derived from the inputs to determine fair value.
their carrying values as a result of their short maturity or because they carry floating rates of interest see note 1 p. g Level 3 derivatives consist of embedded derivatives in electricity purchase contracts linked to the LME with terms expiring between 2014 and 2040.
The embedded derivatives are measured using discounted cash flows and option model valuation techniques.
Long-term embedded derivatives with a fair value of US$196 million at 31 December 2013 is valued Restated using significant unobservable inputs as the term of the derivatives extends beyond the forward curve for aluminium.
31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Aluminium prices are flatlined beyond the market forward curve and increased by projected inflation up to the date of expiry of the contract.
The range of market prices are value value value value US$2,413 per metric tonne in 2024 to US$3,157 in 2040.
The other contracts with a fair value of US$35 million at 31 December 2013 are categorised as level 3 as the market premium US$m US$m US$m US$m assumptions used represent material unobservable inputs.
Short term borrowings note 22 3,916 3,924 2,175 2,194 h There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 and between Level 2 and Level 3 in 2013.
Medium and long term borrowings note 22 24,544 25,746 24,477 27,274 C b Level 3 Financial assets and Financial liabilities Borrowings with a carrying value of US$25.2 billion 2012: US$24.3 billion relate to listed bonds with a fair value of US$26.2 billion 2012: US$26.8 billion and The table below shows the summary of changes in the fair value of the Groups level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities for the year ended 31 December 2013 are categorised as level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.
The remaining borrowings have a fair value measured by discounting estimated cash flows with an applicable and 31 December 2012. market quoted yield and are categorised as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.
Restated 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 C a Valuation hierarchy Level 3 financial Level 3 financial The table below shows the financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method at 31 December 2013: assets and financial assets and financial liabilities liabilities Not held at a b c Opening balance 189 95 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 fair value Currency translation adjustments 8 2 Total realised gains or losses included in: Assets Consolidated sales revenue 20 Equity shares and quoted funds note 20 279 139 79 15 46 d Net operating costs 150 46 Other investments, including loans note 20 506 106 1 215 184 Total unrealised gains or losses included in: 785 245 80 230 230 e Consolidated sales revenue 2 Derivatives Net operating costs 127 36 Forward contracts: designated as hedges Section B 21 21 Total unrealised gains or losses transferred into other comprehensive income 21 18 Forward contracts and option contracts, not designated as hedges Section B 231 2 19 210 Additions 107 Derivatives related to net debt Section B 173 173 Disposals 75 1,210 247 272 461 230 Closing balance 461 189 Total gains for the year included in the income statement for assets and liabilities held at year end 130 46 Sensitivity analysis in respect of level 3 derivatives The carrying value of forward contracts valued using unobservable inputs is calculated using appropriate discounted cash flow and option model valuation techniques.
The most significant assumptions relate to internal long term aluminium prices beyond 10 years.
A 10 per cent increase in long term aluminium prices would result in a US$165 million 2012: US$205 million decrease in carrying value.
A 10 per cent decrease in long term aluminium prices would result in a US$94 million 2012: US$181 million increase in carrying value.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 31 Contingencies and commitments Restated 2013 2012 US$m US$m Capital commitments excluding the Groups share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments Within 1 year 5,098 10,671 Between 1 and 3 years 364 829 Between 3 and 5 years 6 108 After 5 years 31 31 Total 5,499 11,639 Groups share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments Within 1 year 831 796 Between 1 and 3 years 789 444 Between 3 and 5 years 127 19 After 5 years Total 1,747 1,259 Unrecognised commitments to contribute funding or resources to joint ventures For Minera Escondida Limitada, Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. and Rio Tinto Benga Mauritius Limited the Group, along with the other joint venturers, has made various commitments to provide shareholder funding as required, subject to approved thresholds.
In particular, Minera Escondida Limitada holds a shareholder line of credit for US$225 million Rio Tinto share which is currently undrawn.
This line of credit was also available in 2012.
The Group has a commitment to purchase and market a portion which may be different to the Groups ownership interest of the output of both Sohar Aluminium Company LLC and Sor-Norge Aluminium A. S. aluminium smelters in which the Group is a joint venturer.
Purchases are at market prices and the Group subsequently sells the purchased products to third parties.
Operating leases The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases are as follows: Restated 2013 2012 US$m US$m Within 1 year 439 417 Between 1 and 3 years 667 691 Between 3 and 5 years 540 555 After 5 years 832 855 2,478 2,518 168 168 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Purchase obligations 31 Contingencies and commitments The aggregate amount of future payment commitments for the next five years under purchase obligations outstanding at 31 December was: Restated 2013 2012 a Restated US$m US$m 2013 2012 Capital commitments excluding the Groups share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments US$m US$m Within 1 year 5,098 10,671 Within 1 year 3,178 2,908 Between 1 and 3 years 364 829 Between 1 and 2 years 2,434 2,694 Between 3 and 5 years 6 108 Between 2 and 3 years 2,202 2,758 After 5 years 31 31 Between 3 and 4 years 1,865 2,529 Total 5,499 11,639 Between 4 and 5 years 1,743 2,234 After 5 years 14,359 13,931 Groups share of Joint Venture Capital Commitments 25,781 27,054 Within 1 year 831 796 a Purchase obligations are agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities Between 1 and 3 years 789 444 to be purchased: fixed, minimum or variable price provisions: and the approximate timing of the transactions.
The definition of purchase obligations has been further clarified for 2013 and comparatives restated accordingly.
In particular, purchase obligations between subsidiaries and joint arrangements are now included to the extent that they relate to Between 3 and 5 years 127 19 other venturers.
After 5 years a Restated Total 1,747 1,259 2013 2012 US$m US$m Unrecognised commitments to contribute funding or resources to joint ventures Contingent liabilities subsidiaries and joint operations a b For Minera Escondida Limitada, Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. and Rio Tinto Benga Mauritius Limited the Group, along with the other joint venturers, Indemnities and other performance guarantees 489 728 has made various commitments to provide shareholder funding as required, subject to approved thresholds.
In particular, Minera Escondida Limitada holds a Indemnities and other performance guarantees represent the potential outflow of funds from the Group for the satisfaction of obligations including those under contractual a shareholder line of credit for US$225 million Rio Tinto share which is currently undrawn.
This line of credit was also available in 2012. arrangements for example undertakings related to rehabilitation activities and supplier agreements not provided for in the statement of financial position, where the likelihood of the guarantees or indemnities being called is assessed as possible rather than probable or remote.
The comparative for indemnities and other performance guarantees for 2012 The Group has a commitment to purchase and market a portion which may be different to the Groups ownership interest of the output of both Sohar Aluminium has been restated for consistency.
Company LLC and Sor-Norge Aluminium A. S. aluminium smelters in which the Group is a joint venturer.
Purchases are at market prices and the Group subsequently b There were no contingent liabilities arising in relation to the Groups joint ventures and associates.
sells the purchased products to third parties.
There are a number of legal claims currently outstanding against the Group.
No material loss to the Group is expected to result from these claims.
Operating leases The aggregate amount of minimum lease payments under non cancellable operating leases are as follows: Contingent assets The Group has various insurance claims outstanding with reinsurers including claims relating to the Manefay slide at Kennecott Utah Copper in April 2013.
Restated An interim progress payment was received on this claim in 2013.
Further receipts are considered probable but the amount cannot currently be reliably estimated.
Employee numbers for joint operations and equity accounted units are proportional to the Groups interest.
Average employee numbers include a part year effect for companies acquired or disposed of during the year.
Part time employees are included on a full time equivalent basis.
Temporary employees are included in employee numbers.
People employed by contractors are not included.
Discontinued operations employees of 782 2012: 787: 2011: 790, all of whom are located in Africa, are not included in the above numbers.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 33 Principal subsidiaries At 31 December 2013 NonCompany and country of Class of Proportion of Group controlling incorporation operation Principal activities shares held class held % interest % interest % Australia Argyle Diamond Limited Mining and processing of diamonds Ordinary 100 100 a Coal & Allied Industries Limited Coal mining Ordinary 80 80 20 Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary 68.36 68.36 31.64 Energy Resources of Australia Limited Uranium mining Class A 68.39 68.39 31.61 Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 b Queensland Coal Pty Limited Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited Bauxite mining: alumina production: primary Ordinary 100 100 aluminium smelting c Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd Iron ore mining Class A 40 60 40 } Class B 76.36 c North Mining Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 Brazil d Alcan Alumina Ltda.
Alumina production Quota 100 100 Canada Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation Uranium projects Common shares 100 100 e Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc. Iron ore mining: iron ore pellets Common shares 58.72 58.72 41.28 Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock: Common shares 100 100 high purity iron and steel Class B preference shares 100 100 CAD 0.01 preferred shares 100 100 Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining: alumina refining: production of Common shares 100 100 specialty alumina: aluminium smelting f Diavik Diamond Mines Inc Diamond mining and processing Class A, B, C 100 100 Class P1 preferred 100 100 Guinea g Simfer Jersey Limited Iron ore project Ordinary 53 53 47 Madagascar h QIT Madagascar Minerals SA Ilmenite mining Common shares 80 80 15 Investment certificates n a 5 Mongolia Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd including Copper and gold mining Common shares 50.79 50.79 49.21 Oyu Tolgoi LLC and SouthGobi i Resources Ltd Mozambique j Riversdale Mining Limited Coal mining and exploration Common shares 100 100 Namibia k Rssing Uranium Limited Uranium mining B N$1 71.16 68.58 31.42 } C N10c 70.59 South Africa l Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited Titanium dioxide high purity iron production B Ordinary 100 B preference 100 74 26 } BHP Billiton preference 100 Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited Ilmenite, rutile and zircon mining B Ordinary 100 B Preference 100 74 26 } BHP Billiton preference 100 United States of America Kennecott Holdings Corporation including Copper and gold mining, smelting and refining, Common US$0.01 100 100 Kennecott Utah Copper, Kennecott Land land development and exploration activities and Kennecott Exploration U. S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of borates Common US$0.10 100 100 170 170 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued The Group comprises a large number of companies and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those companies that 33 Principal subsidiaries have a more significant impact on the profit or assets of the Group.
At 31 December 2013 NonThe Groups principal subsidiaries are mostly held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
Company and country of Class of Proportion of Group controlling a Of the Groups 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied Industries Limited, an indirect share of 4.29 per cent is held through its investment in an equity accounted unit.
Coal & Allied forms incorporation operation Principal activities shares held class held % interest % interest % part of the Rio Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
Australia Through a series of intermediate companies Coal & Allied holds interests in Bengalla 40 per cent, Mount Thorley 80 per cent and Warkworth 55.6 per cent.
The Groups beneficial Argyle Diamond Limited Mining and processing of diamonds Ordinary 100 100 interests are therefore: Bengalla: 32 per cent: Mount Thorley: 64 per cent: Warkworth: 44.5 per cent.
These are unincorporated arrangements that are not entities: the Group recognises a Coal & Allied Industries Limited Coal mining Ordinary 80 80 20 its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to these arrangements.
Coal & Allied also owns 100 per cent of Hunter Valley Operations.
Dampier Salt Limited Salt production Ordinary 68.36 68.36 31.64 b Queensland Coal Pty Limited is the main legal entity that holds the Groups interests in Hail Creek 82 per cent, Blair Athol 71.2 per cent, Clermont 50.1 per cent and Kestrel Energy Resources of Australia Limited Uranium mining Class A 68.39 68.39 31.61 80 per cent.
These are unincorporated arrangements that are not entities: the Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to these arrangements.
Queensland Coal forms part of the Rio Tinto Coal Australia business unit.
Hamersley Iron Pty Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 b c Robe River Mining Company Pty Limited which is 60 per cent owned by the Group holds a 30 per cent interest in Robe River Iron Associates Robe River.
North Mining Ltd which Queensland Coal Pty Limited Coal mining Ordinary 100 100 is wholly owned by the Group holds a 35 per cent interest in Robe River.
Through these companies the Group recognises a 65 per cent share of the assets, liabilities, revenues and Rio Tinto Aluminium Holdings Limited Bauxite mining: alumina production: primary Ordinary 100 100 expenses of Robe River, with a 12 per cent non-controlling interest.
The Group therefore has a 53 per cent beneficial interest in Robe River.
aluminium smelting d Alcan Alumina Ltda holds the Groups 10 per cent interest in Consrcio fide Alumnio Do Maranho, a joint operation in which Group participates but is not a joint operator.
c Robe River Mining Co Pty Ltd Iron ore mining Class A 40 The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to this arrangement.
60 40 } Class B 76.36 e This entity is incorporated in the United States of America but operates in Canada.
c North Mining Limited Iron ore mining Ordinary 100 100 f Diavik Diamond Mines Inc. is the legal entity that owns the Groups 60 per cent interest in the Diavik diamond mine Diavik, an unincorporated arrangement that is not an entity.
The Group recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses relating to this arrangement.
Brazil d g Simfer Jersey, a company incorporated in Jersey in which the Group has a 53 per cent interest, has a 95 per cent interest in Simfer S. A. the company that operates the Simandou Alcan Alumina Ltda.
Alumina production Quota 100 100 mining project in Guinea.
The Group therefore has a 50.4 per cent indirect interest in Simfer S. A.
These entities are consolidated as subsidiaries and together referred to as the Canada Simandou iron ore project.
Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation Uranium projects Common shares 100 100 h The Groups shareholding in QIT Madagascar Minerals SA carries an 80 per cent economic interest and 80 per cent of the total voting rights, a further 5 per cent economic interest is e Iron Ore Company of Canada Inc. Iron ore mining: iron ore pellets Common shares 58.72 58.72 41.28 held through non-voting investment certificates to give an economic interest of 85 per cent.
The non-controlling interests have a 15 per cent economic interest and 20 per cent of the total voting rights.
Rio Tinto Fer et Titane Inc. Titanium dioxide feedstock: Common shares 100 100 i The Group obtained a controlling interest in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited on 24 January 2012.
Ivanhoe was renamed Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. high purity iron and steel Class B preference shares 100 100 Turquoise Hill on 2 August 2012.
Refer to note 37 for further details relating to the consolidation of Turquoise Hill.
The Group has a 50.79 per cent interest in Turquoise Hill which CAD 0.01 preferred shares 100 100 holds a 66 per cent interest in Oyu Tolgoi OT and a 55.95 per cent interest in SouthGobi Resources Ltd SouthGobi : these companies are subsidiaries of Turquoise Hill.
The Group therefore has a 33.5 per cent indirect interest in OT and a 28.4 per cent indirect interest in SouthGobi.
Rio Tinto Alcan Inc. Bauxite mining: alumina refining: production of Common shares 100 100 specialty alumina: aluminium smelting This entity is incorporated in Canada but operates in Mongolia.
f Diavik Diamond Mines Inc Diamond mining and processing Class A, B, C 100 100 j This entity is incorporated in Australia but operates in Mozambique.
Class P1 preferred 100 100 k The Groups shareholding in Rssing Uranium Limited carries 35.54 per cent of the total voting rights: the non-controlling interests hold 64.46 per cent of the total voting rights.
Rssing is consolidated by virtue of board control.
The Government of Namibia has the ability to veto matters that are considered not to be in the interest of Namibia, this is considered Guinea g to be a protective right.
Rio Tinto therefore has control of Rssing and consolidates it as a subsidiary.
Simfer Jersey Limited Iron ore project Ordinary 53 53 47 l Additional classes of shares issued by Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited representing non-controlling interests are not shown.
Madagascar The Groups total legal and beneficial interest in Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited and Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited is 74 per cent.
h QIT Madagascar Minerals SA Ilmenite mining Common shares 80 80 15 Investment certificates n a 5 Mongolia Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd including Copper and gold mining Common shares 50.79 50.79 49.21 Oyu Tolgoi LLC and SouthGobi i Resources Ltd Mozambique j Riversdale Mining Limited Coal mining and exploration Common shares 100 100 Namibia k Rssing Uranium Limited Uranium mining B N$1 71.16 68.58 31.42 } C N10c 70.59 South Africa l Richards Bay Titanium Proprietary Limited Titanium dioxide high purity iron production B Ordinary 100 B preference 100 74 26 } BHP Billiton preference 100 Richards Bay Mining Proprietary Limited Ilmenite, rutile and zircon mining B Ordinary 100 B Preference 100 74 26 } BHP Billiton preference 100 United States of America Kennecott Holdings Corporation including Copper and gold mining, smelting and refining, Common US$0.01 100 100 Kennecott Utah Copper, Kennecott Land land development and exploration activities and Kennecott Exploration U. S. Borax Inc. Mining, refining and marketing of borates Common US$0.10 100 100 170 171 171 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 33 Principal subsidiaries continued Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the subsidiaries financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments, and before intercompany eliminations.
This reduced Rio Tintos interest from 95 per cent to 50.35 per cent.
During 2013 Chalco sold its interest to Chinalco, its parent company.
These figures represent the consolidated position of both Simfer Jersey and Simfer S. A. which together form the Simandou Iron Ore project.
b Turquoise Hill holds controlling interests in a number of companies, including OT and SouthGobi.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Other Other 33 Principal subsidiaries continued Robe River Robe River Companies Companies Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests that are material to the Group Mining Co Mining Co and and c c This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the subsidiaries financial statements prepared in Pty Pty eliminations eliminations Robe River Robe River 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments, and before intercompany eliminations.
a On 24 April 2012 the Chalco consortium acquired a 47 per cent equity interest in Simfer Jersey Limited.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 34 Principal joint operations At 31 December 2013 Group interest Name and country of operation Principal activities % Australia Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 Clermont Coal Coal mining 50.1 Kestrel Coal mining 80 Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 a b Queensland Alumina Limited Alumina production 80 New Zealand a b New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 79.4 Canada Alouette Aluminium production 40 Indonesia Grasberg expansion Copper and gold mining 40 United States of America b c Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc Aluminium smelting 50.3 The Group comprises a large number of operations, and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those joint operations that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups joint operations are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Although the Group has a 79.4 per cent interest in New Zealand Aluminium Smelters and an 80 per cent interest in Queensland Alumina Limited, decisions about activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of both parties to the arrangements, giving rise to joint control.
b Queensland Alumina Limited, New Zealand Aluminium Smelters and Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc. are joint arrangements that are primarily designed for the provision of output to the parties sharing joint control: this indicates that the parties have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets.
It is these facts and circumstances that give rise to the classification for these entities as Joint Operations.
c Pechiney Reynolds Quebec has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie fide Becancour aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
35 Principal joint ventures At 31 December 2013 Proportion of Group Number of Class of class held interest Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held % % Chile a Minera Escondida Limitada Copper mining and refining 30 30 Mozambique b Rio Tinto Benga Mauritius Limited Coal mining and exploration 474,591,847 Class A 65 65 65 Management 65 65 Norway Sor-Norge Aluminium A. S. Aluminium smelting Ordinary A shares 50 } 500,000 Ordinary B shares 100 Oman c Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. Aluminium smelting power generation 37,500 Ordinary 20 20 The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those joint ventures that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
The Groups principal joint ventures are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
a Although the Group has a 30 per cent interest in this entity, participant and management agreements allow for an Owners Council whereby significant commercial and operational decisions about the relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require the joint approval of both Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton holders of a 57.5 per cent interest.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto participates in joint control.
The year end of Minera Escondida Limitada is 30 June.
The amounts included in the consolidated financial statements of Rio Tinto are however based on accounts of Minera Escondida Limitada that are coterminous with those of the Group.
b Although the Group holds a 65 per cent interest in this entity, decisions about the relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of both parties to the arrangement.
This entity is incorporated in Mauritius but operates mainly in Mozambique, where it has a 100 per cent interest in Riversdale Mozambique Limitada, a coal mine located in Tete, Mozambique.
c Although the Group holds a 20 per cent interest in this entity, decisions about relevant activities that significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of all parties to the arrangement.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Summary information for joint ventures that are material to the Group 34 Principal joint operations This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the joint ventures financial statements prepared At 31 December 2013 in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including fair value adjustments and amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Group interest Rio Tinto Rio Tinto Name and country of operation Principal activities % Minera Minera Benga Benga Australia Escondida Escondida Mauritius Mauritius d d e e Limitada Limitada Limited Limited Tomago Aluminium Joint Venture Aluminium smelting 51.6 2013 2012 2013 2012 Clermont Coal Coal mining 50.1 Revenue 8,553 8,553 135 15 Kestrel Coal mining 80 Gladstone Power Station Power generation 42.1 Depreciation and amortisation 720 830 43 45 Hope Downs Joint Venture Iron ore mining 50 e Impairment charges 354 2,592 a b Queensland Alumina Limited Alumina production 80 Other operating costs 3,697 3,230 289 123 New Zealand Operating profit loss 4,136 4,493 551 2,745 a b New Zealand Aluminium Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 79.4 Canada Interest expense 17 30 3 Alouette Aluminium production 40 Income tax 1,543 1,697 22 828 Indonesia Profit loss after tax 2,610 2,766 532 1,917 Grasberg expansion Copper and gold mining 40 United States of America Total comprehensive income loss 2,610 2,766 532 1,917 b c Pechiney Reynolds Quebec Inc Aluminium smelting 50.3 The Group comprises a large number of operations, and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those joint operations Non-current assets 9,823 7,387 389 623 that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
Current assets 2,653 2,987 166 102 Current liabilities 1,031 1,417 136 78 The Groups joint operations are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
Non-current liabilities 2,152 1,410 328 100 a Although the Group has a 79.4 per cent interest in New Zealand Aluminium Smelters and an 80 per cent interest in Queensland Alumina Limited, decisions about activities that Net assets 9,293 7,547 91 547 significantly affect the returns that are generated require agreement of both parties to the arrangements, giving rise to joint control.
The liabilities of the arrangements are in substance Assets and liabilities above include: satisfied by cash flows received from the parties: this dependence indicates that the parties effectively have obligations for the liabilities.
It is these facts and circumstances that give Cash and cash equivalents 319 457 rise to the classification for these entities as Joint Operations.
Current financial liabilities 56 183 54 11 c Pechiney Reynolds Quebec has a 50.1 per cent interest in the Aluminerie fide Becancour aluminium smelter, which is located in Canada.
Non-current financial liabilities 1,084 460 223 28 35 Principal joint ventures Dividends received from Joint Venture Rio Tinto share 432 270 At 31 December 2013 Proportion of Group Reconciliation of the above amounts to the Investment recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Number of Class of class held interest Group interest 30% 30% 65% 65% Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held % % Chile a Net assets 9,293 7,547 91 547 Minera Escondida Limitada Copper mining and refining 30 30 Groups ownership interest 2,788 2,264 59 356 Mozambique b Other adjustments 2 4 26 Rio Tinto Benga Mauritius Limited Coal mining and exploration 474,591,847 Class A 65 65 65 Management 65 65 Norway Carrying value of Groups interest 2,790 2,268 59 330 Sor-Norge Aluminium A. S. Aluminium smelting Ordinary A shares d In addition to its Investment in Equity Accounted Unit, the Group recognises deferred tax liabilities of US$511million 2012: US$421 million relating to tax on unremitted earnings.
50 } 500,000 Ordinary B shares 100 e The Group has recognised a US$216 million 2012: US$1,147 million post tax impairment of its investment in Rio Tinto Benga Mauritius Limited.
The investment was recognised at fair value on acquisition and it is this investment that has been impaired.
Oman c Sohar Aluminium Company L. L. C. Aluminium smelting power generation 37,500 Ordinary 20 20 The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 36 Principal associates At 31 December 2013 Proportion of Group Number of Class of class held interest Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held % % Australia a Boyne Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 Brazil b Minerao Rio do Norte S. A. Bauxite mining 25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 12 } } 47,000,000 Preferred 11.8 Cameroon Compagnie Camerounaise fide lAluminum Aluminium smelting 1,623,127 Ordinary 46.7 46.7 United States of America Halco Mining Inc c 4,500 Common 45 45 The Groups principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
The Group comprises a large number of operations and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore only includes those associates that have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
a The parties that collectively control this entity do so through decisions that are determined on an aggregate voting interest that can be achieved by several combinations of the parties: although each combination requires Rio Tintos approval, this is not joint control as defined under IFRS 11.
Rio Tinto is therefore determined to have significant influence over this company.
b Although the Group holds only 12 per cent of this entity, it has representation on its board of directors and a consequent ability to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions.
It is therefore determined that Rio Tinto has significant influence.
c Halco has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
Summary information for associates that are material to the Group This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
It represents the amounts shown in the associates financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS under Group accounting policies, including amounts due to and from Rio Tinto.
Boyne Boyne Smelters Smelters d d Limited Limited 2013 2012 Revenue Loss after tax 47 564 e Other comprehensive loss 12 Total comprehensive loss 47 576 Non-current assets 1,086 1,234 Current assets 111 162 Current liabilities 101 108 Non-current liabilities 1,697 1,939 Net assets 601 651 d Boyne Smelters Limited is a tolling operation: as such it is dependent on its participants for funding which is provided through cash calls.
Rio Tinto Aluminium has made certain prepayments to Boyne for toll processing of alumina: these are charged to Group operating costs as processing takes place.
e Other comprehensive loss is net of amounts recognised by subsidiaries in relation to quasi equity loans.
Group interest 59% 59% Net assets 601 651 Groups ownership interest 357 387 Loans to equity accounted units 276 393 Carrying value of Groups interest 81 6 176 176 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Summary information for joint ventures and associates that are not individually material to the Group 36 Principal associates Joint Joint At 31 December 2013 Ventures Ventures Associates Associates Proportion of Group 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number of Class of class held interest Carrying value of Groups interest 405 422 784 915 Company and country of incorporation operation Principal activities shares held shares held % % Australia a Profit after tax 29 182 102 99 Boyne Smelters Limited Aluminium smelting 153,679,560 Ordinary 59.4 59.4 Brazil b Other comprehensive loss income 7 33 38 117 Minerao Rio do Norte S. A. Bauxite mining 25,000,000 Ordinary 12.5 12 } } Total comprehensive loss income 36 149 64 18 47,000,000 Preferred 11.8 Cameroon 37 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses Compagnie Camerounaise fide lAluminum Aluminium smelting 1,623,127 Ordinary 46.7 46.7 2013 Acquisitions United States of America There were no material acquisitions during the year ended 31 December 2013.
Halco Mining Inc c 4,500 Common 45 45 The Groups principal associates are held by intermediate holding companies and not directly by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited.
2012 Acquisitions Consolidation of Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd.
The list therefore only includes those associates that On 24 January 2012, Rio Tinto increased its ownership of shares in Turquoise Hill to a controlling 51.01 per cent interest.
The acquisition gave Rio Tinto control have a more significant impact on the profit or operating assets of the Group.
of the assets in Turquoise Hill other than those relating to Oyu Tolgoi OT, control of which the Group had previously gained in 2010. a The parties that collectively control this entity do so through decisions that are determined on an aggregate voting interest that can be achieved by several combinations of the Total consideration to acquire the controlling interest in Turquoise Hill amounted to US$839 million, comprising US$678 million relating to the fair value of the parties: although each combination requires Rio Tintos approval, this is not joint control as defined under IFRS 11.
Groups interest in Turquoise Hill prior to the acquisition date, and US$161 million of cash price paid to acquire the controlling interest after adjusting for amounts b Although the Group holds only 12 per cent of this entity, it has representation on its board of directors and a consequent ability to participate in the financial and operating policy attributable to OT and net intragroup balances between Rio Tinto and Turquoise Hill.
Fair values on acquisition of Turquoise Hill were determined and finalised decisions.
during 2012. c Halco has a 51 per cent indirect interest in Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine, a bauxite mine, the core assets of which are located in Guinea.
Consolidation of Richards Bay Minerals Summary information for associates that are material to the Group On 7 September 2012, Rio Tinto increased its holding in Richards Bay Minerals RBM to 74 per cent with consolidation effective from 3 September 2012, following the completion of its acquisition of BHP Billitons entire interests including BHP Billitons 37 per cent indirect equity voting interests in the RBM operating companies.
This summarised financial information is shown on a 100 per cent basis.
The acquisition price was US$1.9 billion before contractual adjustments for cash payments made by RBM to BHP Billiton since the acquisition trigger date of 1 February 2012.
This price included US$0.6 billion for BHP Billitons 37 per cent equity interest in RBM, US$1.0 billion for a 50 per cent interest in outstanding Boyne Boyne Smelters Smelters RBM shareholder financing arrangements and US$0.3 billion for a royalty stream.
d d Limited Limited 2013 2012 Provisional fair values recognised on acquisition were finalised by 3 September 2013, 12 months after the consolidation date.
No adjustments were made to provisional fair values as a result of finalisation.
Revenue Loss after tax 47 564 2011 Acquisitions Rio Tinto Mozambique formerly Riversdale Mining Limited e Other comprehensive loss 12 During 2011, between January and July, Rio Tinto acquired a 100 per cent interest in Riversdale Mining Limited.
The purchase was accounted for as an acquisition Total comprehensive loss 47 576 taking place in two stages: first the acquisition of a 52.6 per cent controlling interest on 8 April 2011 the acquisition date for US$1,713 million net of cash acquired, and record the purchase of additional interest for US$1,977 million after the acquisition date.
Non-current assets 1,086 1,234 Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation formerly Hathor Exploration Limited Current assets 111 162 During 2011, between April and December, Rio Tinto acquired an 88 per cent controlling interest in Hathor Exploration Limited Hathor.
By 12 January 2012 the Current liabilities 101 108 remaining 12 per cent was acquired and Hathor was subsequently delisted from the Toronto Stock Exchange and renamed Rio Tinto Canada Uranium Corporation.
Non-current liabilities 1,697 1,939 Goodwill arising on acquisition comprised US$150 million, being Rio Tintos 88 per cent share of the amount calculated in accordance with IFRS to recognise a Net assets 601 651 deferred tax liability on the difference between the provisional fair value of newly consolidated assets and liabilities with their tax base.
d Boyne Smelters Limited is a tolling operation: as such it is dependent on its participants for funding which is provided through cash calls.
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. formerly Ivanhoe Mines Limited e Other comprehensive loss is net of amounts recognised by subsidiaries in relation to quasi equity loans.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, Rio Tinto increased its ownership of shares in Ivanhoe Mines Limited by 132.7 million, for aggregate consideration of US$1,860 million, increasing its ownership from 40.3 per cent to 49.0 per cent.
Group interest 59% 59% Net assets 601 651 Groups ownership interest 357 387 Loans to equity accounted units 276 393 Carrying value of Groups interest 81 6 176 177 177 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 37 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses continued 2013 Disposals Significant divestments and disposals of interests in businesses during the year ended 31 December 2013 are summarised below.
Palabora Eagle Inova Northparkes Mining nickel-copper Altynalmas Resources Mine Constellium Company project Gold Limited a Rio Tinto ownership per cent 80 36.6 57.7 100 50 57 Buyer China Molybdenum b c Lundin Mining Sumeru Gold B. V. Shanxi Donghui Co. Ltd Corporation Coal Coking & Chemicals Group Co.
Date completed 1 December Three tranche 31 July 17 July 29 November 1 November sell down d Consideration US$m 820 671 373 315 235 81 a For Altynalmas Gold and Inova Resources Limited, ownership percentages represent interests divested by Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd, a 50.8 per cent owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto.
All other amounts reflect Rio Tintos effective interest divested.
b On 23 May, the initial public offering of Constellium formerly Alcan Engineered Products was launched, resulting in Rio Tinto reducing its holding from 36.6 per cent to 27.5 per cent.
Rio Tinto subsequently divested the remainder of its holding in two further tranches.
Total consideration from these transactions was US$671 million, inclusive of a special dividend and proceeds from sale of Rio Tintos equity shareholding, which are included within dividends from equity accounted units and sales of financial assets respectively in the Groups statement of cash flows.
c The purchaser of Palabora was a consortium comprising South African and Chinese entities led by the Industrial Development Corporation of South Africa and Hebei Iron & Steel Group.
d Consideration represents total cash proceeds.
Disposals in the statement of cash flows are presented net of cash on disposal of US$338 million, and after adjusting for working capital and other items as specified under the sale agreements.
2012 Disposals Chalco Joint Venture and Settlement Agreement with Government of Guinea GoG for the Simandou Iron Ore Project On 24 April 2012, Rio Tinto and Chalco, a listed subsidiary of The Aluminium Corporation of China Chinalco, completed the formation of their joint venture to develop and operate the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea, following the completion of all Chinese regulatory approvals.
To complete earn in to a 44.65 per cent net economic interest in the Simandou project, a consortium led by Chalco made a payment to Rio Tinto of US$1.35 billion, in line with an agreement reached with Rio Tinto on 29 July 2010.
In late 2013 Chalco completed the transfer of 65 per cent of their interest in Simandou to their holding company, Chinalco, who now holds the Simandou interest directly.
Under the Settlement Agreement signed by Rio Tinto and the Government of Guinea on 22 April 2011, GoG has an option to take an interest of up to 35 per cent in Simfer S. A. Simfer, the Rio Tinto subsidiary that will undertake the mining portion of the Simandou project.
The Settlement Agreement provides for the transfer of ownership of railway and port infrastructure from Simfer to a newly formed Infrastructure entity InfraCo in which GoG had indicated its intention to fund a 51 per cent interest.
Amendment to Simfers mining convention and the terms of a new infrastructure convention, required to give effect to the Settlement Agreement including the GoG participation in the Project, need to be finalised and will require legislative ratification.
The eventual basis of accounting for InfraCo remains to be determined pending finalisation of the detailed infrastructure agreements.
Other disposals During 2012, Rio Tinto completed the sale of Alcan Cable, the Specialty Alumina businesses, and the Lynemouth Power Station.
Finalisation of working capital adjustments took place where applicable and did not result in a material impact on the Group.
2011 Disposals Constellium formerly Alcan Engineered Products On 4 January 2011, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of 61 per cent of Alcan Engineered Products AEP to certain investment funds affiliated with Apollo Global Management, LLC Apollo and the Fonds Stratgique dinvestissement FSI.
The terms of the transaction are confidential.
AEP was rebranded as Constellium on 3 May 2011.
Divestment of the talc business On 1 August 2011, Rio Tinto completed the divestment of its talc business to Imerys for gross consideration based on an enterprise value of US$340 million before any deductions or tax.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 37 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and other interests in businesses continued 38 Directors and key management remuneration 2013 Disposals Aggregate remuneration, calculated in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, of the directors of the parent companies was as follows: Significant divestments and disposals of interests in businesses during the year ended 31 December 2013 are summarised below.
2013 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 Palabora Eagle Inova Northparkes Mining nickel-copper Altynalmas Resources Emoluments 14,061 11,165 10,145 Mine Constellium Company project Gold Limited Long term incentive plans 3,719 3,215 a Rio Tinto ownership per cent 80 36.6 57.7 100 50 57 17,780 11,165 13,360 Pension contributions: defined contribution plans 108 66 61 Buyer China Molybdenum b c Lundin Mining Sumeru Gold B. V. Shanxi Donghui Gains made on exercise of share options 5,888 1,668 Co. Ltd Corporation Coal Coking & Chemicals The Group defines key management personnel as the directors and members of the Executive committee.
The Executive committee comprises the executive Group Co. directors, product group chief executive officers PGCEOs and Group executives.
The aggregate remuneration incurred by Rio Tinto plc in respect of its directors was US$11,451,000 2012: US$7,357,000: 2011: US$9,059,000.
The aggregate Date completed 1 December Three tranche 31 July 17 July 29 November 1 November pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$44,000 2012: US$nil, 2011: US$nil.
The aggregate remuneration, including pension contributions and sell down d other retirement benefits, incurred by Rio Tinto Limited in respect of its directors was US$6,437,000 2012: US$3,874,000: 2011: US$4,362,000.
The aggregate Consideration US$m 820 671 373 315 235 81 pension contribution to defined contribution plans was US$64,000 2012: US$66,000: 2011: US$61,000.
a For Altynalmas Gold and Inova Resources Limited, ownership percentages represent interests divested by Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd, a 50.8 per cent owned subsidiary of Rio Tinto.
During 2013, three directors 2012: three: 2011 three accrued retirement benefits under defined benefit arrangements, and two directors 2012: one: 2011: one accrued retirement benefits under defined contribution arrangements.
Total consideration from these transactions was US$671 million, inclusive of a special dividend Emoluments included in the table above have been translated from local currency at the average rate for the year with the exception of bonus payments which, and proceeds from sale of Rio Tintos equity shareholding, which are included within dividends from equity accounted units and sales of financial assets respectively in the Groups statement of cash flows.
together with amounts payable under long term incentive plans, have been translated at the year end rate.
Detailed information concerning directors remuneration, shareholdings and options is shown in the Remuneration Report, including tables 1 to 3, on pages 98 d Consideration represents total cash proceeds.
Disposals in the statement of cash flows are presented net of cash on disposal of US$338 million, and after adjusting for working capital to 108 of the 2013 Annual report.
and other items as specified under the sale agreements.
Aggregate compensation, representing the expense recognised under EU IFRS, of the Groups key management, including directors, was as follows: 2012 Disposals 2013 2012 2011 Chalco Joint Venture and Settlement Agreement with Government of Guinea GoG for the Simandou Iron Ore Project US$000 US$000 US$000 On 24 April 2012, Rio Tinto and Chalco, a listed subsidiary of The Aluminium Corporation of China Chinalco, completed the formation of their joint venture to Short term employee benefits and costs 30,696 27,164 25,122 develop and operate the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea, following the completion of all Chinese regulatory approvals.
To complete earn in to a 44.65 per cent Post employment benefits 2,741 5,121 4,542 net economic interest in the Simandou project, a consortium led by Chalco made a payment to Rio Tinto of US$1.35 billion, in line with an agreement reached with Share based payments 26,392 32,435 28,190 Rio Tinto on 29 July 2010.
In late 2013 Chalco completed the transfer of 65 per cent of their interest in Simandou to their holding company, Chinalco, who now holds 59,829 64,720 57,854 the Simandou interest directly.
Under the Settlement Agreement signed by Rio Tinto and the Government of Guinea on 22 April 2011, GoG has an option to take an interest of up to 35 per cent The figures shown above include employment costs which comprise social security and accident premiums in the UK and US and payroll taxes in Australia paid by in Simfer S. A. Simfer, the Rio Tinto subsidiary that will undertake the mining portion of the Simandou project.
the employer as a direct additional cost of hire.
In total, they amount to US$2,897,000 2012: US$2,863,000: 2011: US$2,010,000 and although disclosed here, are not included in table 1 of the Remuneration Report.
In 2012, Alan Davies received an interest free advance of A$55,600 net for home sale assistance in accordance with the terms and conditions of his international secondment, prior to his appointment to the Executive Committee.
The advance was reimbursable to Rio Tinto if Mr Davies had not sold his home by 30 August Amendment to Simfers mining convention and the terms of a new infrastructure convention, required to give effect to the Settlement Agreement including the 2014.
Mr Davies met the conditions associated with the advance during 2013 and has no further obligation in respect of this matter.
GoG participation in the Project, need to be finalised and will require legislative ratification.
More detailed information concerning the remuneration of key management is shown in the Remuneration Report, including tables 1 to 3 on pages 98 to 108 The eventual basis of accounting for InfraCo remains to be determined pending finalisation of the detailed infrastructure agreements.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 39 Auditors remuneration 2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m a Group Auditors remuneration Audit of the company 3.8 3.1 2.8 Audit of subsidiaries 11.5 14.1 11.6 Total audit 15.3 17.2 14.4 Audit related assurance services 1.2 1.5 1.1 b Other assurance services 3.0 3.8 3.3 Total assurance services 4.2 5.3 4.4 c Tax compliance 0.5 0.3 0.3 c Tax advisory services 0.4 0.4 1.2 Services related to corporate finance transactions not covered above services in connection with bond issues capital raising 0.4 0.6 0.5 services in connection with divestment programme 0.5 0.3 2.0 Other non-audit services not covered above 0.4 0.5 1.1 Total non-audit services 2.2 2.1 5.1 21.7 24.6 23.9 Audit fees payable to other accounting firms Audit of the accounts of the Groups subsidiaries 3.0 2.9 2.6 Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.3 0.1 0.1 3.3 3.0 2.7 a The remuneration payable to PwC, the Group Auditors, is approved by the Audit committee.
The committee sets the policy for the award of non audit work to the auditors and approves the nature and extent of such work, and the amount of the related fees, to ensure that independence is maintained.
The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to member firms of PwC by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the payments made by joint operations.
Non-audit services arise largely from assurance and or regulation related work.
b Other assurance services are mainly related to carve-out financial statements, sustainability assurance and limited assurance over the Taxes paid report.
c Taxation services includes tax compliance and advisory services.
Tax compliance involves the preparation or review of returns for corporation, income, sales and excise taxes.
Tax advisory services includes advice on non recurring acquisitions and disposals, advice on transfer pricing and advice on employee global mobility.
40 Related party transactions Information about material related party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: Subsidiary companies and joint operations Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 33.
Information relating to joint operations can be found in note 34.
Equity accounted units Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below.
Purchases, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables relate largely to amounts charged by equity accounted units for toll processing of alumina and purchases of bauxite and aluminium.
Sales relate largely to charges for supply of coal to jointly controlled marketing entities for onward sale to third party customers.
Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 Income statement items US$m US$m US$m Purchases from equity accounted units 1,953 2,283 2,781 Sales to equity accounted units 1,569 1,742 2,075 Statement of cash flow items US$m US$m US$m Cash movement on equity accounted units funded balances note 24 1,683 Net funding of equity accounted units 88 223 657 Statement of financial position items US$m US$m US$m a Investments in equity accounted units note 15 3,957 3,941 7,548 Loans to equity accounted units 94 282 584 Loans from equity accounted units 86 116 3,405 Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units note 18 615 722 801 Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units note 25 290 357 550 a Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 35 and 36.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Pension funds 39 Auditors remuneration Information relating to pension fund arrangements is disclosed in note 45.
2013 2012 2011 US$m US$m US$m a Directors and key management Group Auditors remuneration Details of directors and key management remuneration are set out in note 38 and in the Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 108.
Audit of the company 3.8 3.1 2.8 Audit of subsidiaries 11.5 14.1 11.6 41 Exchange rates in US$ Total audit 15.3 17.2 14.4 The principal exchange rates used in the preparation of the 2013 financial statements are: Audit related assurance services 1.2 1.5 1.1 b Other assurance services 3.0 3.8 3.3 Annual average Year end Total assurance services 4.2 5.3 4.4 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 c Sterling 1.56 1.58 1.60 1.65 1.62 1.54 Tax compliance 0.5 0.3 0.3 c Tax advisory services 0.4 0.4 1.2 Australian dollar 0.97 1.04 1.03 0.89 1.04 1.01 Canadian dollar 0.97 1.00 1.01 0.94 1.00 0.98 Services related to corporate finance transactions not covered above services in connection with bond issues capital raising South African rand 0.104 0.122 0.138 0.096 0.122 0.122 0.4 0.6 0.5 services in connection with divestment programme 0.5 0.3 2.0 Euro 1.33 1.29 1.39 1.38 1.32 1.30 Other non-audit services not covered above 0.4 0.5 1.1 42 Bougainville Copper Limited BCL Total non-audit services 2.2 2.1 5.1 21.7 24.6 23.9 The Group owns 53.8 per cent of the issued share capital of BCL.
Mining has been suspended at the Panguna mine since 1989.
Safe access by company employees has not been possible since that time and an accurate assessment of the condition of the assets cannot therefore be made.
Considerable funding would be required Audit fees payable to other accounting firms to recommence operations to the level which applied at the time of the mines closure in 1989.
An Order of Magnitude Study completed by BCL in 2013 indicated Audit of the accounts of the Groups subsidiaries 3.0 2.9 2.6 an estimated capital requirement of US$5.2 billion to reopen the mine assuming all site infrastructure is replaced.
Rio Tinto does not have control over BCL under Fees in respect of pension scheme audits 0.3 0.1 0.1 IFRS as it does not have the current ability to direct the activities that affect its returns, being the mining and sale of ore from the Panguna mine: it is therefore not 3.3 3.0 2.7 a subsidiary.
a The remuneration payable to PwC, the Group Auditors, is approved by the Audit committee.
The fees disclosed above consolidate all payments made to member 43 Events after the statement of financial position date firms of PwC by the Companies and their subsidiaries, together with the Groups share of the payments made by joint operations.
On 13 January 2014, Rio Tintos 50.8 per cent subsidiary Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd closed its rights offering.
Rio Tinto exercised all of its rights under the basic b Other assurance services are mainly related to carve-out financial statements, sustainability assurance and limited assurance over the Taxes paid report.
subscription, with holders of the non-controlling interest subscribing for 495,133,382 shares at a price of C$2.53 per share.
Rio Tintos share in Turquoise Hill remained unchanged at 50.8 per cent of common shares as a result of the offering.
On 12 February 2014, the Group announced that it had entered into an option agreement for LNG Canada to acquire or lease a wharf and associated land at Rio Tintos port facility at Kitimat, British Columbia, Canada.
40 Related party transactions Other than the items above, no events were identified after the statement of financial position date which could be expected to have a material impact on the Information about material related party transactions of the Rio Tinto Group is set out below: consolidated financial statements.
Subsidiary companies and joint operations Details of investments in principal subsidiary companies are disclosed in note 33.
44 Share based payments Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited the Companies have a number of share based payment plans, which are described in detail in the Remuneration Report.
Equity accounted units These plans have been accounted for in accordance with the fair value recognition provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
Transactions and balances with equity accounted units are summarised below.
Sales relate largely to charges for supply The charge credit that has been recognised in the income statement for Rio Tintos share-based compensation plans, and the related liability for cash-settled of coal to jointly controlled marketing entities for onward sale to third party customers.
plans, is set out in the table below.
Charge credit Liability at the Restated Restated recognised for the year end of the year 2013 2012 2011 Income statement items US$m US$m US$m 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Purchases from equity accounted units 1,953 2,283 2,781 Equity-settled plans 142 243 157 Sales to equity accounted units 1,569 1,742 2,075 Cash-settled plans 3 1 1 2 Total 142 240 156 1 2 Statement of cash flow items US$m US$m US$m Cash movement on equity accounted units funded balances note 24 1,683 The 2012 share based payment charge included one off costs associated with management changes at Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd. TRQ of US$76 million.
These costs were incurred on TRQs own share based payment plans.
These charges did not recur in 2013 and are not expected to recur in future years.
Net funding of equity accounted units 88 223 657 The main Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans are as follows: Statement of financial position items US$m US$m US$m Share Savings Plans a Investments in equity accounted units note 15 3,957 3,941 7,548 Awards under these plans are settled in equity and accounted for accordingly.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant was estimated using a lattice-based Loans to equity accounted units 94 282 584 option valuation model, including allowance for the exercise price being at a discount to market price.
Loans from equity accounted units 86 116 3,405 Awards are no longer granted under the Share Savings Plans as these plans were replaced by the Global Employee Share Plan in 2012.
Charges will continue Trade and other receivables: amounts due from equity accounted units note 18 615 722 801 to be incurred until prior period awards have vested.
Trade and other payables: amounts due to equity accounted units note 25 290 357 550 a Further information about investments in equity accounted units is set out in notes 35 and 36.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 44 Share based payments continued Share Option Plan The Group has a policy of settling awards made under the Share Option Plan in equity, although the directors at their discretion can offer a cash alternative.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled, share-based payment transactions.
The performance conditions in relation to Total Shareholder Return TSR have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for these awards by modelling the correlation between Rio Tintos TSR and that of the HSBC Global Mining Index.
The relationship between Rio Tintos TSR and the index was simulated many thousands of times to derive a distribution which, in conjunction with the lattice-based option valuation model, was used to determine the fair value of the options.
No awards were granted under the Share Option Plans in 2013 as the LTIP arrangements have been simplified and awards are now only made under the Performance Share Plan.
Charges will continue to be incurred until prior period awards have vested.
UK Share Plan formerly the Share Ownership Plan The fair values of awards of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto are taken to be the market value of the shares on the date of purchase.
These awards are settled in equity.
The total fair value of shares awarded during the year was US$2 million 2012: US$3 million.
Performance Share Plan Participants are generally assigned shares in settlement of their awards and therefore the Plan is accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
For the awards or parts of awards with TSR performance conditions, the fair value FV of the awards was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the TSR performance conditions.
In each case fair values were adjusted for non receipt of dividends between grant date and date of vesting excluding awards for executive directors and product group CEOs.
One-third of the 2013 awards must satisfy an earnings target relative to ten global mining comparators for vesting.
As this is a non-market related performance condition, under IFRS 2, the fair value recognised is reviewed at each accounting date based on the directors expectations for the proportion vesting.
As at 31 December 2013 it was assumed 100 per cent of awards subject to the condition would vest.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards except for the 2009 awards which applied to senior executives only with no allowance for forfeitures.
Management Share Plan The Management Share Plan was introduced during 2007 to provide conditional share-based awards to management.
The vesting of these awards is dependent on service and or performance based conditions being met.
In general, the awards will be settled in equity including the dividends accumulated from date of award to vesting.
The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at five per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
Bonus Deferral Plan The Bonus Deferral Plan was originally introduced during 2009 for the mandatory deferral of the 2008 bonuses for executive directors, product group executives and for other executives.
Additional Bonus Deferral Awards were made in 2010, 2011 and 2012 for the mandatory deferral of 50 per cent of the bonuses for executive directors and product group executives and 10 per cent of the bonuses for other executives.
The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions being met.
The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends vesting.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
Global Employee Share Plan The Global Employee Share Plan was introduced during 2012.
The company provides matching shares for each share purchased.
The vesting of these matching awards is dependent on service conditions being met.
The fair value of each matching share on the day of grant is equal to share price on the date of purchase.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Summary of options outstanding 44 Share based payments continued A summary of the status of the Companies equity-settled share option plans at 31 December 2013 is presented below.
Share Option Plan The Group has a policy of settling awards made under the Share Option Plan in equity, although the directors at their discretion can offer a cash alternative.
Weighted Weighted Aggregate The awards are accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying to equity-settled, share-based payment transactions.
The performance conditions average average intrinsic exercise price remaining value in relation to Total Shareholder Return TSR have been incorporated in the measurement of fair value for these awards by modelling the correlation between per option contractual life 2013 Rio Tintos TSR and that of the HSBC Global Mining Index.
The relationship between Rio Tintos TSR and the index was simulated many thousands of times to Options outstanding at 31 December 2013 Number A$ Years US$m derive a distribution which, in conjunction with the lattice-based option valuation model, was used to determine the fair value of the options.
Rio Tinto plc Share Savings Plan FV 21 29 699,504 27.07 1.2 8 No awards were granted under the Share Option Plans in 2013 as the LTIP arrangements have been simplified and awards are now only made under the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plan FV A$48 A$67 984,551 54.77 1.7 12 Performance Share Plan.
Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan FV 10 43 1,962,541 28.12 5.3 26 Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan FV A$18 A$77 569,935 48.32 4.1 11 UK Share Plan formerly the Share Ownership Plan 4,216,531 57 The fair values of awards of Matching and Free Shares made by Rio Tinto are taken to be the market value of the shares on the date of purchase.
As at 31 December 2012 there were 7,042,815 options outstanding with an aggregate intrinsic value of US$122 million.
Performance Share Plan Options exercisable at 31 December 2013 Participants are generally assigned shares in settlement of their awards and therefore the Plan is accounted for in accordance with the requirements applying Rio Tinto plc Share Option Plan FV 10 38 1,360,884 23.44 4.2 26 to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Rio Tinto Limited Share Option Plan FV A$18 A$77 569,935 48.32 4.1 11 1,930,819 37 For the awards or parts of awards with TSR performance conditions, the fair value FV of the awards was calculated using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the TSR performance conditions.
In each case fair values were adjusted for non receipt of dividends between grant date and date of vesting excluding As at 31 December 2013, there were no options 2012: no options exercisable under either the Rio Tinto plc or the Rio Tinto Limited Share Savings Plans.
awards for executive directors and product group CEOs.
One-third of the 2013 awards must satisfy an earnings target relative to ten global mining comparators The Performance Share Plan, Management Share Plan, Bonus Deferral Plan, Global Employee Share Plan and UK Share Plan together represent 91 per cent 2012: for vesting.
As this is a non-market related performance condition, under IFRS 2, the fair value recognised is reviewed at each accounting date based on the 83 per cent of the total IFRS 2 charge for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited plans in 2013. directors expectations for the proportion vesting.
Forfeitures are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards except for the 2009 awards which applied to senior executives only with no Performance Share Plan allowance for forfeitures.
Rio Tinto plc Awards Rio Tinto Ltd Awards Management Share Plan Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average The Management Share Plan was introduced during 2007 to provide conditional share-based awards to management.
The vesting of these awards is dependent fair value at fair value at fair value at fair value at on service and or performance based conditions being met.
In general, the awards will be settled in equity including the dividends accumulated from date of award grant date grant date grant date grant date to vesting.
2013 2013 2012 2012 2013 2013 2012 2012 Number Number Number A$ Number A$ The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends.
Forfeitures are Non-vested shares at 1 January 2,705,545 30.40 2,473,203 33.67 1,541,776 60.46 1,204,561 71.24 assumed prior to vesting at five per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
Additional Bonus Deferral Awards were made in 2010, 2011 and 2012 for the mandatory deferral of 50 per cent of the bonuses for executive Vested 176,103 13.91 76,708 35.08 29,861 32.74 43,430 82.61 directors and product group executives and 10 per cent of the bonuses for other executives.
Non-vested shares at 31 December 3,161,952 27.91 2,705,545 30.40 2,023,519 53.29 1,541,776 60.46 The vesting of these awards is dependent only on service conditions being met.
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted The fair value of each award on the day of grant is equal to share price on the day of grant less a small adjustment for the timing of dividends vesting.
Forfeitures average average average average share price share price share price share price are assumed prior to vesting at three per cent per annum of outstanding awards.
2013 2013 2012 2012 2013 2013 2012 2012 Number Number Number A$ Number A$ Global Employee Share Plan Shares issued in respect of vested The Global Employee Share Plan was introduced during 2012.
The vesting of these matching awards during the year 176,103 34.69 76,708 36.40 29,861 69.03 43,430 67.01 awards is dependent on service conditions being met.
In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 2,811 Rio Tinto plc cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2013.
The total liability for these awards at 31 December 2013 was less than US$1 million 2012: less than US$1 million.
45 Post retirement benefits Description of plans The Group operates a number of pension and post retirement healthcare plans around the world.
Some of these plans are defined contribution and some are defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
Defined benefit pension and post retirement healthcare plans expose the Group to a number of risks: Uncertainty in benefit payments The value of the Groups liabilities for post retirement benefits will ultimately depend on the amount of benefits paid out.
This in turn will depend on the future pay increases, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to some form of inflation protection and how long individuals live.
Volatility in asset values The Group is exposed to future movements in the values of assets held in pension plans to meet future benefit payments.
Uncertainty in cash funding Movements in the values of the obligations or assets may result in the Group being required to provide higher levels of cash funding, although changes in the level of cash required can often be spread over a number of years.
In some countries control over the rate of cash funding or over the investment policy for pension assets might rest to some extent with a trustee body or other body that is not under the Groups direct control.
In addition the Group is also exposed to adverse changes in pension regulation.
For these reasons the Group has a policy of moving away from defined benefit pension provision and towards defined contribution arrangements instead.
The defined benefit pension plans for salaried employees are closed to new entrants in almost all countries.
For unionised employees some plans remain open but others are closed.
The Group does not usually participate in multiemployer plans in which the risks are shared with other companies using those plans.
The Groups participation in such plans is immaterial and consequently no detailed disclosures are provided in this note.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Pension plans 44 Share based payments continued The majority of the Groups defined benefit pension obligations are in Canada, the UK, the US, Switzerland and the Eurozone.
Management Share Plan, Bonus Deferral Plan, Global Employee Share Plan and UK Share Plan combined Rio Tinto Plc Awards Rio Tinto Ltd Awards In Canada the benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay and are closed to new entrants.
Benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted in negotiation with unions and are typically either linked to final average pay or to a flat monetary amount per year of service.
Some of these plans have been average average average average closed to new entrants but some remain open at present.
The plans are subject to the regulatory requirements that apply to Canadian pension plans in the relevant fair value at fair value at fair value at fair value at provinces and territories predominantly Quebec.
Pension Committees are responsible for ensuring that the plans operate in a manner that is compliant with the grant date grant date grant date grant date 2013 2013 2012 2012 2013 2013 2012 2012 relevant regulations.
The Pension Committees generally have a number of members appointed by the sponsor and a number appointed by the plan participants.
Number Number Number A$ Number A$ In some cases there is also an independent Committee member.
Non-vested awards at 1 January 2,073,129 37.21 2,565,372 30.05 1,574,153 71.73 1,574,088 65.23 The defined benefit sections of the UK arrangements are linked to final pay and are closed to new members.
The plans are subject to the regulatory requirements that apply to UK pension plans.
Trustees are responsible for ensuring that the plans operate in a Forfeited 237,265 34.13 135,133 37.68 165,591 62.36 62,583 71.73 manner that is compliant with UK regulations.
Trustee boards have a number of directors appointed by the sponsor and a number appointed by the plan participants.
Benefits for salaried staff are generally linked to final average pay and closed to new Non-vested awards at 31 December 2,277,219 32.72 2,073,129 37.21 2,058,902 61.64 1,574,153 71.73 entrants, while benefits for bargaining employees are reviewed in negotiation with unions and are typically a flat monetary amount per year of service.
A Benefits Comprising of Governance Committee is responsible for ensuring that the plans are compliant with US regulations.
Members of that Committee are appointed by the sponsor.
Management Share Plan 1,708,472 33.38 1,838,633 37.12 1,505,507 62.93 1,409,513 71.96 In Europe, there are defined benefit plans in Switzerland, the Netherlands, Germany and France.
The largest single plan is in Switzerland and provides benefits Bonus Deferral Plan 206,336 32.20 234,496 37.90 205,242 59.10 164,640 69.74 linked to final average pay.
The Swiss plan is overseen by a Foundation Board which is responsible for ensuring that the plan complies with Swiss regulations.
Global Employee Share Plan 353,049 29.93 348,153 57.57 Foundation Board members are appointed by the plan sponsor, by employees and by retirees.
UK Share Plan 9,362 29.11 In Australia, the main arrangements are principally defined contribution in nature but there are sections providing defined benefits linked to final pay, typically paid in lump sum form.
The defined benefit sections are closed to new entrants.
Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average The Group also operates a number of unfunded defined benefit plans, which are included in the figures below.
share price share price share price share price 2013 2013 2012 2012 2013 2013 2012 2012 Post retirement healthcare plans Number Number A$ Number A$ Number A$ Certain subsidiaries of the Group, mainly in the US and Canada, provide health and life insurance benefits to retired employees and in some cases to their Shares issued in respect of vested awards during the year including dividend shares applied on vesting beneficiaries and covered dependants.
Eligibility for cover is dependent upon certain age and service criteria.
These arrangements are generally unfunded, Management Share Plan 843,009 33.82 1,251,063 35.63 582,493 65.09 697,695 65.30 and are included in the figures below.
Bonus Deferral Plan 106,335 32.23 7,533 33.87 65,297 64.77 372 69.74 Global Employee Share Plan Plan assets 12,335 30.92 10,324 60.34 UK Share Plan The assets of the pension plans are invested predominantly in a diversified range of equities, bonds and property.
Consequently the funding level of the pension 35,250 29.72 plans is affected by movements in the level of equity markets and also by movements in interest rates.
The Group monitors its exposure to changes in interest rates In addition to the equity-settled awards shown above, there were 10,506 Rio Tinto plc cash-settled awards outstanding at 31 December 2013.
The total liability and equity markets and also measures its statement of financial position pension risk using a Value at Risk approach.
These measures are considered when deciding for these awards at 31 December 2013 was less than US$1 million 2012: less than US$1 million.
whether significant changes in investment strategy are required.
Asset-liability studies are conducted on a periodic basis for the main pension plans to determine the optimal investment mix bearing in mind the Groups tolerance for risk, the risk tolerance of the local sponsor companies and the views of the Pension Committees 45 Post retirement benefits and Trustee boards who are legally responsible for the investments of the plans.
In Canada, the UK and Switzerland the Group works with the trustees to ensure that Description of plans the investment policy adopted is consistent with the Groups tolerance for risk.
In the US the Group has direct control over the investment policy, subject to the local The Group operates a number of pension and post retirement healthcare plans around the world.
Some of these plans are defined contribution and some are investment regulations.
defined benefit, with assets held in separate trusts, foundations and similar entities.
The proportions of the total fair value of assets in the pension plans for each asset class at the statement of financial position date were: Defined benefit pension and post retirement healthcare plans expose the Group to a number of risks: Restated Uncertainty in benefit payments The value of the Groups liabilities for post retirement benefits will ultimately depend on the amount of benefits paid out.
2013 2012 This in turn will depend on the future pay increases, the level of inflation for those benefits that are subject to some form Equities 45.3% 49.2% of inflation protection and how long individuals live.
Quoted 42.1% 46.4% Volatility in asset values The Group is exposed to future movements in the values of assets held in pension plans to meet future benefit payments.
Private 3.2% 2.8% Uncertainty in cash funding Movements in the values of the obligations or assets may result in the Group being required to provide higher levels of Bonds 40.4% 37.8% cash funding, although changes in the level of cash required can often be spread over a number of years.
In some countries Government fixed income 10.7% 10.7% control over the rate of cash funding or over the investment policy for pension assets might rest to some extent with a trustee Government inflation-linked 10.3% 9.6% body or other body that is not under the Groups direct control.
In addition the Group is also exposed to adverse changes in Corporate and other publicly quoted 18.5% 16.2% pension regulation.
Private 0.9% 1.3% Property 8.7% 8.0% For these reasons the Group has a policy of moving away from defined benefit pension provision and towards defined contribution arrangements instead.
Quoted property funds 4.6% 2.4% The defined benefit pension plans for salaried employees are closed to new entrants in almost all countries.
Unquoted property funds 4.0% 3.6% Directly held property 0.1% 2.0% The Group does not usually participate in multiemployer plans in which the risks are shared with other companies using those plans.
The Groups participation Qualifying Insurance Policies 1.7% 1.8% in such plans is immaterial and consequently no detailed disclosures are provided in this note.
Cash & Other 3.9% 3.2% 100.0% 100.0% The assets of the plans are managed on a day-to-day basis by external specialist fund managers.
These managers may invest in the Groups securities subject to limits imposed by the relevant fiduciary committees and local legislation.
The approximate total holding of Group securities within the plans is US$40 million 2012: US$47 million.
The holdings of quoted equities are invested either in pooled funds or segregated accounts held in the name of the relevant pension funds.
These equity portfolios are well diversified in terms of the geographic distribution and market sectors.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 45 Post retirement benefits continued The holdings of government bonds are generally invested in the debt of the country in which a pension plan is situated.
Corporate and other quoted bonds are usually of investment grade.
Private debt is mainly in North America.
The quoted property funds are invested in a diversified range of properties.
The directly held property is owned by the Swiss pension fund and is predominantly invested in properties in and around Zurich.
The holdings of Cash and Other are predominantly cash and short-term money market instruments.
Investments in private equity, private debt, unquoted property funds and directly held property are less liquid than the other investment classes listed above and therefore the Groups investment in those asset classes is restricted to a level that does not endanger the liquidity of the pension plans.
The Group does not currently utilise derivatives to manage risk in its pension plans.
However, fund managers may use derivatives to hedge currency movements within their portfolios and, in the case of bond managers, to take positions that could be taken using direct holdings of bonds but more efficiently.
Maturity of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the maturity of the obligations is given in the table below: Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Proportion relating to current employees 25% 22% 25% 29% 30% Proportion relating to former employees not yet retired 12% 4% 11% 11% 10% Proportion relating to retirees 63% 74% 64% 60% 60% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Duration of obligations years 13.4 12.3 13.3 14.1 13.3 Geographical distribution of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the geographic distribution of the obligations is given in the table below: Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits % % % Canada 46% 41% 45% 49% 46% UK 28% 2% 27% 23% 24% US 12% 55% 14% 15% 16% Switzerland 6% 0% 6% 5% 5% Eurozone 5% 0% 5% 5% 5% Australia 2% 0% 2% 2% 3% Other 1% 2% 1% 1% 1% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Total expense recognised in the income statement Restated Restated 2013 2012 2011 Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans 267 17 284 270 251 Past service cost 1 1 4 12 Curtailment gains 27 17 44 59 20 Settlement gains 2 2 Net interest cost on defined benefit liability 161 48 209 240 226 Non-investment expenses paid from the plans 22 22 20 20 Total defined benefit expense 420 48 468 475 465 Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans 335 2 337 348 288 Total expense recognised in the income statement 755 50 805 823 753 The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net operating costs.
In 2013, US$21 million pre-tax of curtailment and settlement gains relating to the sale of businesses have been excluded from Underlying earnings 2012: US$34 million, 2011: US$20 million.
The curtailments shown in the table above relate primarily to headcount reductions at various operations during 2013 and divestments.
The settlements in 2013 relate mainly to an exercise in the US in which deferred vested participants were offered a one-time lump sum payment in place of their future pension payments.
The settlements also include amounts paid to insurance companies to take on the obligations for two relatively small pension plans which were then wound-up.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income before tax 45 Post retirement benefits continued Restated Restated The holdings of government bonds are generally invested in the debt of the country in which a pension plan is situated.
Corporate and other quoted bonds 2013 2012 2011 are usually of investment grade.
US$m US$m US$m The quoted property funds are invested in a diversified range of properties.
The directly held property is owned by the Swiss pension fund and is predominantly Actuarial gains losses 1,092 1,235 1,627 invested in properties in and around Zurich.
Return on assets net of interest on assets 1,212 903 216 Loss on application of asset ceiling 44 The holdings of Cash and Other are predominantly cash and short-term money market instruments.
Total gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 2,260 332 1,843 Investments in private equity, private debt, unquoted property funds and directly held property are less liquid than the other investment classes listed above and therefore the Groups investment in those asset classes is restricted to a level that does not endanger the liquidity of the pension plans.
Amounts recognised in the Statement of financial position The following amounts were measured in accordance with IAS 19 at 31 December: The Group does not currently utilise derivatives to manage risk in its pension plans.
Restated 2013 2012 Maturity of defined benefit obligations Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m An approximate analysis of the maturity of the obligations is given in the table below: Total fair value of plan assets 15,527 15,527 14,671 Restated Restated Present value of obligations funded 16,699 16,699 18,415 2013 2012 2011 Pension Other Total Total Total Present value of obligations unfunded 999 1,094 2,093 2,307 benefits benefits % % % Present value of obligations total 17,698 1,094 18,792 20,722 Proportion relating to current employees 25% 22% 25% 29% 30% Effect of asset ceiling 44 44 Proportion relating to former employees not yet retired 12% 4% 11% 11% 10% Aggregate deficit to be shown in the statement of financial position 2,215 1,094 3,309 6,051 Proportion relating to retirees 63% 74% 64% 60% 60% Comprising: Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Deficits 2,505 1,094 3,599 6,205 Surpluses 290 290 154 Duration of obligations years 13.4 12.3 13.3 14.1 13.3 Net deficits on pension plans 2,215 2,215 4,801 Unfunded post retirement healthcare obligation 1,094 1,094 1,250 Geographical distribution of defined benefit obligations An approximate analysis of the geographic distribution of the obligations is given in the table below: The surplus amounts shown above are included in the statement of financial position as Trade and other receivables.
Restated Restated Deficits are shown in the statement of financial position within Provisions including post retirement benefits.
2013 2012 2011 Pension Other Total Total Total Funding policy and contributions to plans benefits benefits % % % The Group reviews the funding position of its major pension plans on a regular basis and considers whether to provide funding above the minimum level required in Canada 46% 41% 45% 49% 46% each country.
In Canada and the US the minimum level is prescribed by legislation.
In the UK and Switzerland the minimum is negotiated with the local Trustee or UK 28% 2% 27% 23% 24% Foundation in accordance with the funding guidance issued by the local regulators.
In deciding whether to provide funding above the minimum level the Group takes US 12% 55% 14% 15% 16% into account other possible uses of cash within the Group, the tax situation of the local sponsoring entity and any strategic advantage that the Group might obtain by Switzerland 6% 0% 6% 5% 5% accelerating contributions.
The Group does not generally pre-fund post-retirement healthcare arrangements.
Eurozone 5% 0% 5% 5% 5% Restated Restated Australia 2% 0% 2% 2% 3% 2013 2012 2011 Other 1% 2% 1% 1% 1% Pension Other Total Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Contributions Total expense recognised in the income statement Contributions to defined benefit plans 667 67 734 727 681 Restated Restated Contributions to defined contribution plans 315 2 317 328 272 2013 2012 2011 Contributions to industry-wide plans 20 20 20 16 Pension Other Total Total Total Total 1,002 69 1,071 1,075 969 benefits benefits US$m US$m US$m Current employer service cost for defined benefit plans 267 17 284 270 251 Contributions to defined benefit pension plans for 2014 are estimated to be around US$400 million.
This is kept under regular review and actual contributions will Past service cost 1 1 4 12 be determined in line with the Groups wider financing strategy.
Healthcare plans are generally unfunded and contributions for future years will be equal to benefit Curtailment gains 27 17 44 59 20 payments, which are expected to be similar to the amounts paid in 2013.
Settlement gains 2 2 Net interest cost on defined benefit liability 161 48 209 240 226 Non-investment expenses paid from the plans 22 22 20 20 Total defined benefit expense 420 48 468 475 465 Current employer service cost for defined contribution and industry-wide plans 335 2 337 348 288 Total expense recognised in the income statement 755 50 805 823 753 The above expense amounts are included as an employee cost within net operating costs.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 45 Post retirement benefits continued Movements in the net defined benefit liability A summary of the movement in the net defined benefit liability is shown in the first table below.
The subsequent tables provide a more detailed analysis of the movements in the present value of the obligations, the fair value of assets and the effect of the asset ceiling.
The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who participate in the plans and who are employed in associates and joint arrangements.
Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses may not correspond directly to the amounts disclosed above in respect of the Group.
Defined contribution plans and industry-wide plans are excluded from the movements below.
Restated 2013 2012 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in the net defined benefit liability: Net defined benefit liability at start of the year 4,801 1,250 6,051 5,890 Amounts recognised in Income 420 48 468 475 Amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 2,164 96 2,260 332 Employer contributions 667 67 734 732 Divestments newly included arrangements 20 1 19 41 Currency exchange rate movements 155 42 197 127 Net defined benefit liability at end of the year 2,215 1,094 3,309 6,051 Restated 2013 2012 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in present value of obligation: Present value of obligation at start of the year 19,472 1,250 20,722 19,024 Current employer service cost 267 17 284 270 Past service cost 1 1 4 Curtailments 27 17 44 59 Settlements 131 131 6 Interest on obligations 728 48 776 827 Contributions by plan participants 37 4 41 44 Benefits paid 1,015 71 1,086 1,085 Experience gain 54 36 90 91 Changes in financial assumptions gain loss 892 73 965 1,233 Changes in demographic assumptions gain loss 50 13 37 93 Arrangements divested 95 1 94 70 Inclusion of arrangements 16 Currency exchange rate gain loss 541 42 583 522 Present value of obligation at end of the year 17,698 1,094 18,792 20,722 Restated 2013 2012 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 14,671 14,671 13,134 Settlements 129 129 6 Interest on assets 567 567 587 Contributions by plan participants 37 4 41 44 Contributions by employer 667 67 734 732 Benefits paid 1,015 71 1,086 1,085 Non-investment expenses 22 22 20 Return on plan assets net of interest on assets 1,212 1,212 903 Arrangements divested 75 75 13 Currency exchange rate loss gain 386 386 395 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 15,527 15,527 14,671 188 188 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued Restated 45 Post retirement benefits continued 2013 2012 Movements in the net defined benefit liability Pension Other Total Total A summary of the movement in the net defined benefit liability is shown in the first table below.
The subsequent tables provide a more detailed analysis of the benefits benefits US$m US$m movements in the present value of the obligations, the fair value of assets and the effect of the asset ceiling.
Change in the effect of the asset ceiling: Effect of the asset ceiling at the start of the year The amounts shown below include, where appropriate, 100 per cent of the costs, contributions, gains and losses in respect of employees who participate in the plans Movement in the effect of the asset ceiling 44 44 and who are employed in associates and joint arrangements.
Consequently, the costs, contributions, gains and losses may not correspond directly to the amounts Effect of the asset ceiling at the end of the year 44 44 disclosed above in respect of the Group.
Restated In determining the extent to which the asset ceiling has an effect, the Group considers the funding legislation in each country and the rules specific to each pension 2013 2012 plan.
Where the plan rules and legislation both permit the employer to take a refund of surplus the asset ceiling may have no effect, although it may be the case Pension Other Total Total that a refund will only be available many years in the future.
In situations where no refund would be available the effect of the asset ceiling is calculated taking into benefits benefits US$m US$m account the availability of a reduction in the employers future contributions.
Change in the net defined benefit liability: Net defined benefit liability at start of the year 4,801 1,250 6,051 5,890 Main assumptions rates per annum Amounts recognised in Income 420 48 468 475 The main assumptions for the valuations of the plans under IAS 19 are set out below.
Amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income 2,164 96 2,260 332 Other Employer contributions 667 67 734 732 mainly a b Canada UK US Switzerland Eurozone Australia Africa Divestments newly included arrangements 20 1 19 41 At 31 December 2013 Currency exchange rate movements 155 42 197 127 Rate of increase in salaries 3.3% 5.0% 3.8% 2.3% 2.6% 4.4% 9.0% Net defined benefit liability at end of the year 2,215 1,094 3,309 6,051 Rate of increase in pensions 0.8% 3.0% 0.2% 1.5% 2.7% 7.0% Discount rate 4.6% 4.4% 4.6% 2.2% 3.4% 4.1% 9.1% Restated c Inflation 2.0% 3.4% 2.3% 1.3% 1.9% 2.7% 7.0% 2013 2012 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m At 31 December 2012 Change in present value of obligation: Rate of increase in salaries 3.3% 4.5% 3.9% 2.3% 2.7% 3.9% 8.7% Present value of obligation at start of the year 19,472 1,250 20,722 19,024 Rate of increase in pensions 0.8% 2.4% 1.5% 2.2% 6.7% Current employer service cost 267 17 284 270 Discount rate 3.9% 4.3% 4.0% 1.7% 3.1% 2.9% 8.3% Past service cost 1 1 4 c Inflation 2.0% 2.9% 2.4% 1.3% 2.1% 2.2% 6.7% Curtailments 27 17 44 59 a The discount rate shown for Australia is before tax for 2013 and after tax for 2012.
Settlements 131 131 6 b The assumptions vary by location for the Other plans.
Assumptions shown are for Southern Africa.
Interest on obligations 728 48 776 827 c The inflation assumption shown for the UK is for the Retail Price Index.
The assumption for the Consumer Price Index at 31 December 2013 was 2.4 per cent 2012: 2.2 per cent.
Contributions by plan participants 37 4 41 44 The main financial assumptions used for the healthcare plans, which are predominantly in the US and Canada, were: discount rate: 4.6 per cent 2012: 4.0 per cent, Benefits paid 1,015 71 1,086 1,085 medical trend rate: 6.8 per cent reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year 2022 broadly on a straight line basis 2012: 6.7 per cent, reducing to 5.1 per cent by the year Experience gain 54 36 90 91 2018, claims costs based on individual company experience.
Changes in financial assumptions gain loss 892 73 965 1,233 Changes in demographic assumptions gain loss 50 13 37 93 For both the pension and healthcare arrangements the post retirement mortality assumptions allow for future improvements in longevity.
The mortality tables used Arrangements divested 95 1 94 70 imply that a man aged 60 at the statement of financial position date has a weighted average expected future lifetime of 25 years 2012: 25 years and that a man aged 60 in 2033 would have a weighted average expected future lifetime of 27 years 2012: 27 years.
Inclusion of arrangements 16 Currency exchange rate gain loss 541 42 583 522 Present value of obligation at end of the year 17,698 1,094 18,792 20,722 Restated 2013 2012 Pension Other Total Total benefits benefits US$m US$m Change in plan assets: Fair value of plan assets at the start of the year 14,671 14,671 13,134 Settlements 129 129 6 Interest on assets 567 567 587 Contributions by plan participants 37 4 41 44 Contributions by employer 667 67 734 732 Benefits paid 1,015 71 1,086 1,085 Non-investment expenses 22 22 20 Return on plan assets net of interest on assets 1,212 1,212 903 Arrangements divested 75 75 13 Currency exchange rate loss gain 386 386 395 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 15,527 15,527 14,671 188 189 189 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 45 Post retirement benefits continued Sensitivity The values reported for the defined benefit obligations are sensitive to the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payments and discounting those payments.
In order to estimate the sensitivity of the obligations to changes in assumptions we calculate what the obligations would be if we were to make small changes to each of the key assumptions in isolation.
The difference between this figure and the figure calculated using our stated assumptions is an indication of the sensitivity to changes in each assumption.
The results of this sensitivity analysis are summarised in the table below.
Note that this approach is valid for small changes in the assumptions but will be less accurate for larger changes in the assumptions.
2013 2012 restated Approximate increase Approximate increase decrease in obligations decrease in obligations Pensions Other Pensions Other Assumption Change in assumption US$m US$m US$m US$m Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 1,095 62 1,283 79 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 1,169 66 1,375 85 Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points 626 32 683 38 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 594 29 652 35 Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points 100 3 140 4 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 97 2 136 4 Demographic allowance for future participants assumed to have the mortality rates of improvements in longevity individuals who are one year older 437 16 506 25 participants assumed to have the mortality rates of individuals who are one year younger 437 16 506 25 Medical cost trend rates increase of 1.0 percentage points 59 74 decrease of 1.0 percentage points 54 67 Information on the sensitivity of the Groups earnings to the main assumptions is set out in the sensitivity section on page 131.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 45 Post retirement benefits continued 46 Impact of new accounting standards Sensitivity As explained in note 1 Principal Accounting Policies on pages 118 to 119, there have been a number of significant changes to accounting requirements for 2013.
The impact of these changes in accounting requirements on the Groups statement of financial position as at 1 January 2012 together with the impact on the The values reported for the defined benefit obligations are sensitive to the actuarial assumptions used for projecting future benefit payments and discounting those Groups income statement for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2012 are set out below.
The difference between this figure and the figure calculated using our stated assumptions is an indication of Group statement of financial position the sensitivity to changes in each assumption.
Note that this approach is valid for small As reported at IFRIC 20 IFRS 11 IAS 19R As restated at changes in the assumptions but will be less accurate for larger changes in the assumptions.
1 January 2012 restatement restatement restatement 1 January 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2013 2012 restated Non-current assets Approximate increase Approximate increase decrease in obligations decrease in obligations Goodwill 8,187 1,371 9,558 Pensions Other Pensions Other Intangible assets 7,955 87 8,042 Assumption Change in assumption US$m US$m US$m US$m Property, plant and equipment 64,967 224 1,638 66,381 Discount rate increase of 0.5 percentage points 1,095 62 1,283 79 Investments in equity accounted units 9,833 176 2,109 7,548 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 1,169 66 1,375 85 Inventories 381 381 Deferred tax assets 1,875 60 74 3 1,864 Inflation increase of 0.5 percentage points 626 32 683 38 Trade and other receivables 2,365 323 2,042 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 594 29 652 35 Other financial assets including tax recoverable and loans to equity accounted units 1,996 16 2,012 Salary increases increase of 0.5 percentage points 100 3 140 4 97,559 340 606 3 97,828 decrease of 0.5 percentage points 97 2 136 4 Current assets Inventories 5,307 2 233 5,538 Demographic allowance for future participants assumed to have the mortality rates of Trade and other receivables 6,058 2 6,060 improvements in longevity individuals who are one year older 437 16 506 25 Other financial assets including tax recoverable and loans participants assumed to have the mortality rates of to equity accounted units 863 13 876 individuals who are one year younger 437 16 506 25 Cash and cash equivalents 9,670 92 9,762 21,898 2 340 22,236 Medical cost trend rates increase of 1.0 percentage points 59 74 Assets of disposal groups held for sale 88 88 decrease of 1.0 percentage points 54 67 Total assets 119,545 342 946 3 120,152 Information on the sensitivity of the Groups earnings to the main assumptions is set out in the sensitivity section on page 131.
Current liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities 1,447 32 1,415 Trade and other payables 9,381 201 9,582 Tax payable 2,651 11 2,662 Provisions including post retirement benefits 1,487 10 6 1,503 14,966 190 6 15,162 Non-current liabilities Borrowings and other financial liabilities 20,357 172 20,529 Trade and other payables 719 11 708 Tax payable 382 22 404 Deferred tax liabilities 6,210 33 123 6,300 Provisions including post retirement benefits 17,670 - 450 12 18,132 45,338 33 756 12 46,073 Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 33 33 Total liabilities 60,337 33 946 18 61,268 Net assets 59,208 309 15 58,884 Capital and reserves Share capital Rio Tinto plc 234 234 Rio Tinto Limited 5,582 5,582 Share premium account 4,208 4,208 Other reserves 14,731 14 14,745 Retained earnings 27,784 325 29 27,430 Equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto 52,539 325 15 52,199 Attributable to non-controlling interests 6,669 16 6,685 Total equity 59,208 309 15 58,884 190 191 191 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 46 Impact of new accounting standards continued Group Income Statement restatement of full year 2012 and 2011 As reported As restated Year ended Year ended a b 31 December IFRIC 20 IFRS 11 IAS 19R 31 December 2012 restatement restatement restatement 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loss profit before taxation 2,568 33 176 72 2,431 Taxation 429 6 179 25 589 Loss profit from continuing operations 2,997 27 3 47 3,020 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 7 7 Loss profit for the year 3,004 27 3 47 3,027 attributable to non-controlling interests 14 16 1 1 attributable to owners of Rio Tinto Net earnings losses 2,990 11 3 46 3,028 As reported As restated Year ended Year ended a b 31 December IFRIC 20 IFRS 11 IAS 19R 31 December restatement restatement restatement 2011 2011 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Profit loss before taxation 13,214 187 15 144 13,272 Taxation 6,439 63 15 45 6,472 Profit loss from continuing operations 6,775 124 99 6,800 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 10 10 Profit loss for the year 6,765 124 99 6,790 attributable to non-controlling interests 939 17 1 955 attributable to owners of Rio Tinto Net earnings 5,826 107 98 5,835 a The IFRIC 20 restatement impact to net earnings reflects additional capitalisation partly offset by additional depreciation.
b There was a post tax credit within Other comprehensive income of US$61 million in the year ended 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: US$77 million for actuarial gains and losses offsetting the reduced return on assets.
The net impact to Rio Tinto equity of US$15 million in the year ended 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: US$21 million loss relates to changes in timing of recognition of past service cost under IAS 19R.
Interim information In the interim Financial Statements for the six months ended 30 June 2013, a balance of US$1,080 million was included in Trade and other receivables which should have been offset against an amount of US$1,080 million included in Trade and other payables to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Comparative figures for the six months ended 30 June 2014 will be revised accordingly.
com reportingcentre2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Notes to the 2013 financial statements continued 46 Impact of new accounting standards continued 47 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures Group Income Statement restatement of full year 2012 and 2011 2013 2012 As at 31 December A$m A$m As reported As restated Year ended Year ended Assets a b 31 December IFRIC 20 IFRS 11 IAS 19R 31 December Current assets 1,490 4,710 2012 restatement restatement restatement 2012 Non-current assets 11,480 11,297 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Total assets 12,970 16,007 Loss profit before taxation 2,568 33 176 72 2,431 Taxation 429 6 179 25 589 Liabilities Loss profit from continuing operations 2,997 27 3 47 3,020 Current liabilities 1,336 1,116 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 7 7 Non-current liabilities 329 100 Loss profit for the year 3,004 27 3 47 3,027 Total liabilities 1,665 1,216 attributable to non-controlling interests 14 16 1 1 attributable to owners of Rio Tinto Net earnings losses 2,990 11 3 46 3,028 Net assets 11,305 14,791 As reported As restated Shareholders equity Year ended Year ended a b 31 December IFRIC 20 IFRS 11 IAS 19R 31 December Share capital 4,113 4,113 restatement restatement restatement 2011 2011 Available-for-sale investment revaluation reserve 1 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Share based payments reserves 265 222 Profit loss before taxation 13,214 187 15 144 13,272 Capital reserves 536 536 Taxation 6,439 63 15 45 6,472 Retained earnings 6,920 10,364 Profit loss from continuing operations 6,775 124 99 6,800 Total equity 11,305 14,791 Loss after tax from discontinued operations 10 10 Profit loss for the year 6,765 124 99 6,790 Profit of the parent company 4,861 8,215 attributable to non-controlling interests 939 17 1 955 attributable to owners of Rio Tinto Net earnings 5,826 107 98 5,835 Total comprehensive income of the parent company 4,861 8,215 a The IFRIC 20 restatement impact to net earnings reflects additional capitalisation partly offset by additional depreciation.
b There was a post tax credit within Other comprehensive income of US$61 million in the year ended 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: US$77 million for actuarial gains and losses Contingent liabilities offsetting the reduced return on assets.
The net impact to Rio Tinto equity of US$15 million in the year ended 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: US$21 million loss b relates to changes in timing of recognition of past service cost under IAS 19R.
Bank and other performance guarantees 34,910 27,307 a Prepared under Australian Accounting Standards AAS.
In relation to Rio Tinto Limited there are no significant measurement differences between AAS and EU IFRS.
Interim information b Bank and other performance guarantees relate principally to the obligations of subsidiary companies.
In the interim Financial Statements for the six months ended 30 June 2013, a balance of US$1,080 million was included in Trade and other receivables which should Pursuant to the DLC merger, both Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited issued deed poll guarantees by which each company guaranteed contractual obligations incurred by the other have been offset against an amount of US$1,080 million included in Trade and other payables to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Comparative figures or guaranteed by the other.
These guarantees are excluded from the figures above.
for the six months ended 30 June 2014 will be revised accordingly.
