STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Rio Tinto financial information by business unit continued Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief Business units have been classified according to the Groups management structure.
Pursuant to section 340 of the Corporations Act 2001 Corporations Act, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission issued an order dated 22 December 2010 as amended on 17 February 2012 that granted relief to Rio Tinto Limited from certain requirements of the Corporations Act in relation to the a Includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries sales revenue and the Groups share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for sales to subsidiaries.
Companys financial statements and associated reports.
The order essentially continues the relief that has applied to Rio Tinto Limited since the formation of the b EBITDA of subsidiaries and the Groups share of EBITDA relating to equity accounted units represents profit before: tax, net finance items, depreciation and amortisation charged Groups Dual Listed Companies DLC structure in 1995.
The order applies to Rio Tinto Limiteds financial reporting obligations for financial years and half-years to the income statement in the year.
Underlying EBITDA excludes the same items that are excluded from Underlying earnings.
ending between 31 December 2010 and 30 June 2014 inclusive.
c Represents profit after tax attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto.
Business unit earnings are stated before finance items but after the amortisation of discount related to provisions.
Earnings attributed to business units do not include amounts that are excluded in arriving at Underlying earnings.
In essence, instead of being required under the Corporations Act to prepare consolidated financial statements covering only itself and its controlled entities, the d The Group holds 65 per cent of Robe River Iron Associates, of which 30 per cent is held through a 60 per cent owned subsidiary.
The Groups net beneficial interest is, therefore, order allows Rio Tinto Limited to prepare consolidated financial statements in which it, Rio Tinto plc and their respective controlled entities are treated as a single 53 per cent.
In addition, those consolidated financial statements are to be prepared: e Reflects the results of the integrated production of aluminium, splitting activities between Bauxite and Alumina, Primary Metal by region and Other integrated operations.
Following reintegration into Rio Tinto Alcan in 2013, the four aluminium smelters and the Gove bauxite mine, previously grouped within Pacific Aluminium in Other Operations, are now included in accordance with the principles and requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union EU IFRS rather than within the Aluminium product group.
The Gove alumina refinery continues to be reported within Other Operations.
Other integrated operations relate to internal sales of technology, the Australian Accounting Standards AAS except for one limited instance in the case of any concise report, and in accordance with United Kingdom financial smelter equipment and engineering services as well as sales of carbon products.
Other product group items relate to alumina and aluminium trading in excess of production, and reporting obligations generally: external sales of technology, smelter equipment and engineering services.
on the basis that the transitional provisions of International Financial Reporting Standard 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards f Under the terms of a joint venture agreement, Rio Tinto is entitled to 40 per cent of additional material mined as a consequence of expansions and developments of the Grasberg facilities since 1998. should be applied using the combined financial statements previously prepared for Rio Tinto Limited, Rio Tinto plc and their respective controlled entities under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United Kingdom, under which the DLC merger between Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc was accounted for g Rio Tintos interest in Oyu Tolgoi LLC is held indirectly through its 50.8 per cent investment in Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd which in turn owns 66 per cent of Oyu Tolgoi.
using merger, rather than acquisition, accounting reflecting that neither Rio Tinto Limited nor Rio Tinto plc was acquired by, or is controlled by, the other, and h Rio Tinto completed the divestments of its 57.7 per cent interest in Palabora on 31 July 2013 and of its 80 per cent interest in Northparkes on 1 December 2013. meaning that the existing carrying amounts, rather than fair values, of assets and liabilities at the time of the DLC merger were used to measure those assets and i Includes Rio Tintos 80 per cent interest in Coal & Allied through which Rio Tinto holds its beneficial interests in Bengalla, Mount Thorley and Warkworth of 32 per cent, 64 per cent liabilities at formation : and 44.5 per cent respectively.
j Principal interests are the Benga mine, a 65:35 joint venture with Tata Steel Limited, which is equity accounted, and the wholly owned Zambeze coal project.
on the basis that Rio Tinto Limited and Rio Tinto plc are a single company with their respective shareholders being the shareholders in that single company : and k Includes Rio Tintos interests in Argyle 100 per cent, Diavik 60 per cent and Murowa 77.8 per cent.
with a reconciliation, from EU IFRS to AAS, of the following amounts: consolidated profit for the financial year, total consolidated income for the financial year and l Includes Rio Tintos interests in Rio Tinto Fer et Titane RTFT 100 per cent, QMM 80 per cent and Richards Bay Minerals RBM, attributable interest of 74 per cent.
total consolidated equity at the end of the financial year see page 117. m Other Operations include Rio Tintos 100 per cent interest in the Gove alumina refinery refer to note e and Rio Tinto Marine.
During 2013, Rio Tinto completed the sale of its interests Those consolidated financial statements must also be audited in accordance with relevant Australian and United Kingdom requirements.
Rio Tinto Limited must in Constellium and the Sebree aluminium smelter.
also prepare a Directors report which satisfies the content requirements of the Corporations Act applied on the basis that for these purposes the consolidated entity n Comprises the net cash outflow on purchases less disposals of property, plant and equipment, capitalised evaluation costs and purchases less disposals of other intangible assets.
is the Group, and the consolidated financial statements cover the Group.
This includes a Remuneration Report see pages 68 to 108 prepared in accordance with Includes 100 per cent of subsidiaries capital expenditure and Rio Tintos share of the capital expenditure of equity accounted units.
requirements of the Corporations Act.
o Comprises net assets excluding post retirement assets and liabilities, net of tax, before deducting net debt.
Operating assets are stated after deduction of non-controlling interests, which are calculated by reference to the net assets of the relevant companies i. e. inclusive of such companies debt and amounts due to or from Rio Tinto Group companies.
Rio Tinto Limited is also required to comply generally with the lodgement and distribution requirements of the Corporations Act including timing requirements p Comprising Rio Tintos interests in the Clermont and Blair Athol thermal coal mines and the Zululand Anthracite Colliery ZAC.
Net assets held for sale at 31 December 2012 in relation to those consolidated financial statements including any concise financial statements, the Auditors report and the Directors report.
The Corporations comprised Palabora and ZAC.
Amounts are presented after deducting non-controlling interests, including the non-controlling interests share of third party net debt and balances Act also requires that a non-binding resolution to adopt the Remuneration Report be voted on by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting.
owed with Rio Tinto Group subsidiaries.
q Comparative information for the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 has been restated to reflect a number of new accounting policies.
Rio Tinto Limited is not required to prepare separate consolidated financial statements solely for it and its controlled entities.
Rio Tinto Limited is also not required to prepare and lodge parent entity financial statements for itself in respect of each relevant financial year.
However, Rio Tinto Limited must in accordance with the Corporations Act include in the consolidated financial statements for the Group, as a note, various parent entity information regarding Rio Tinto Limited including in relation to assets, liabilities, shareholders equity, profit and loss, income, guarantees, contingent liabilities, and contractual commitments prepared in accordance with AAS see page 193.
