Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 137 ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION Foreign exchange ii accounting rules require certain income and costs relating to Foreign exchange rate movements influence the reported income our commercial activities to be eliminated from, or added to, statement, the cash flow and closing net cash balance.
The average the aggregate of all the profits of the Group companies when and spot rates for the principal trading currencies of the Group are preparing the consolidated income statement consolidation shown in the table below: adjustments : and iii specific tax rules including exemptions or incentives as 2013 2012 Change determined by the tax laws in each country.
Year end spot rate 1.65 1.63 1% USD per GBP Average spot rate 1.56 1.59 -2% The Groups total corporation tax payments in 2013 were Year end spot rate 1.20 1.23 -2% 238million.
The level of tax paid in each country is impacted by EUR per GBP Average spot rate 1.18 1.23 -4% the above.
In most cases, i and ii are only a matter of timing and therefore tax will be paid in an earlier or later year.
As a result they only have a negligible impact on the Groups underlying tax rate The Groups approach to managing its tax affairs which, excluding joint ventures, would be 27.1percent the The Board is involved in setting the Groups tax policies which underlying tax rate including joint ventures can be found on govern the way its tax affairs are managed.
This is due to deferred tax accounting, details of which can i the Group manages its tax costs through maximising the tax be found in note 5 to the financial statements.
The impact of iii will efficiency of business transactions.
This includes taking often be permanent depending on the relevant tax law.
advantage of available tax incentives and exemptions: Investments and capital expenditure ii this must be done in a way which is aligned with the Groups The Group subjects all major investments and capital expenditure commercial objectives and meets its legal obligations and to a rigorous examination of risks and future cash flows to ensure ethical standards: that they create shareholder value.
All major investments require iii the Group also has regard for the intention of the legislation Board approval.
concerned rather than just the wording itself: iv the Group is committed to building constructive working The Group has a portfolio of projects at different stages of their relationships with tax authorities based on a policy of full life cycles.
Discounted cash flow analysis of the remaining life of disclosure in order to remove uncertainty in its business projects is performed on a regular basis.
transactions and to allow the authorities to review possible risks: Sales of engines in production are assessed against criteria in v where appropriate and possible, the Group enters into the original development programme to ensure that overall value consultation with tax authorities to help shape proposed is enhanced.
legislation and future tax policy: and vi the Group seeks to price transactions between Group companies Financial risk management as if they were between unrelated parties, in compliance with The Board has established a structured approach to financial risk the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and the laws of the management.
The Financial risk committee Frc is accountable for relevant jurisdictions.
managing, reporting and mitigating the Groups financial risks and exposures.
These risks include the Groups principal counterparty, The Groups global corporate income tax contribution currency, interest rate, commodity price, liquidity and credit rating Over 95percent of the Groups underlying profit before tax risks outlined in more depth in note 17.
The Frc is chaired by the excluding joint ventures is generated in the United Kingdom, United Chief Financial Officer.
The Group has a comprehensive financial risk States of America, Germany, Norway, Finland and Singapore.
The policy that advocates the use of financial instruments to manage remaining profits are generated across more than 40 other countries.
and hedge business operations risks that arise from movements This reflects the fact that the majority of the Groups business is in financial, commodities, credit or money markets.
The Groups undertaken, and employees are based, in the above countries.
policy is not to engage in speculative financial transactions.
The In common with most multinational groups, the total of all profits Frc sits quarterly to review and assess the key risks and agree any in respect of which corporate tax is paid is not the same as the mitigating actions required.
consolidated profit before tax reported on page 75.
The main reasons for this are: i the consolidated income statement is prepared under IFRS whereas tax is paid on the profits of each Group company, which are determined by local accounting rules: Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 138 Other information ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION Capital structure Credit rating Restated million 2013 2012 Rating Outlook Grade Total equity 6,303 5996 Moodys Investors Service A3 Stable Investment Cash flow hedges 68 63 Standard & Poors A Stable Investment Group capital 6,371 6,059 Net funds 1,939 1,317 The Group subscribes to both Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors for independent long-term credit ratings.
At 31 December 2013, the Group maintained investment grade Operations are funded through various shareholders funds, bank ratings from both agencies.
The capital structure of the Group reflects the judgement of the Board as to the appropriate balance As a capital-intensive business making long-term commitments of fundingrequired.
to our customers, the Group attaches significant importance to maintaining or improving the current investment grade Funding is secured by the Groups continued access to the global credit ratings.
Borrowings are funded in various currencies using derivatives where appropriate to achieve a required currency and Accounting and regulatory interest rate profile.
The Boards objective is to retain sufficient The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in financial investments and undrawn facilities to ensure that the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Group can both meet its medium-term operational commitments IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
and cope with unforeseen obligations and opportunities.
In 2013, the Group has adopted Amendments to IAS 19 Employee The Group holds cash and short-term investments which, together Benefits.
There were no other revisions to IFRS that became with the undrawn committed facilities, enable it to manage its applicable in 2013 which had a significant impact on the Groups liquidity risk.
During the year, the Group issued 750million 2.125% Notes A summary of changes which have not been adopted in 2013 maturing in 2021 and 375million 3.375% Notes maturing in 2026. is included within the accounting policies in note 1.
At year end, the Group retained aggregate liquidity of 5.6billion.
This As explained in the Chief Financial Officers review on page 11, liquidity comprised net funds of 1.9billion and aggregate borrowing following discussions with the Conduct Committee of the FRC, facilities of 3.6billion, of which 1.2billion remained undrawn.
the Group has reassessed its policy for the recognition of entry fees received under RRSAs.
The maturity profile of the borrowing facilities is regularly reviewed to ensure that refinancing levels are manageable in the context Governments and regulators around the world continue to of the business and market conditions.
The only facility to mature implement reforms to the financial markets with the aim of in 2014 is a 200million EIB loan.
There are no rating triggers in any improving transparency and reducing systemic risk.
Although the borrowing facility that would require the facility to be accelerated reforms are predominantly directed at financial institutions, they or repaid due to an adverse movement in the Groups credit rating.
will also affect non-financial institutions such as the Group.
The Group conducts some of its business through a number of joint The primary concern was the reform of the over-the-counter OTC ventures.
A major proportion of the debt of these joint ventures is derivatives market, and in particular a proposal in the EU European secured on the assets of the respective companies and is nonMarket Infrastructure Regulation EMIR that parties to future OTC recourse to the Group.
This debt is further outlined in note 11. derivative transactions would be required to use an exchange to clear the transactions and post cash collateral to reduce counterparty risk.
The proposal could have adversely affected the Groups future funding requirements and made cash flow more volatile.
The final EMIR rules have now been released, which exempt non-financial institutions engaged in hedging activity from this requirement.
Share price During the year, the share price increased by 46percent from 873.5pence to 1275 pence, compared to a 38percent increase in the FTSE aerospace and defence sector and 14percent increase in the FTSE 100.
The Companys share price ranged from 873.5pence in January to 1275 pence in December.
