Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 25 OPERATIONS Record levels of investment continue to drive improvements in product and operational performance.
Alain Michaelis Operations Director The Advanced Forming Research Centre in Our teams around the world focus on development training and is expected Glasgow, UK, the National Composites improvement in all the classical operational to secure at least 5,000 high-value Centre in Bristol, UK and the Manufacturing metrics safety, quality, cost, on-time manufacturing jobs in aerospace.
We are Technology Centre in Coventry, UK, are delivery, inventory while at the same time also supporting a 76million Sharing in expanding their facilities and the new ensuring that the next generation of Growth programme in the nuclear industry.
Commonwealth Centre for Advanced advanced products and processes are We continue to seek new capabilities in Manufacturing in Richmond, USA, is now successfully industrialised.
emerging markets across the world through fully operational.
Our operations employ 25,000 people in our supplier development groups.
These help 17 countries at 85 Rolls-Royce facilities.
Our future Advanced Remanufacturing drive competition with our existing internal In addition, 33 joint venture facilities, seven and Technology Research Centre in Singapore plants and suppliers, and also allow us to manufacturing technology partnerships and High Temperature Components Centre develop new markets Brazil Energy and and over 70 significant suppliers help us of Excellence in the UK will ensure we lead China Marine being good examples.
We to meet customer demand.
in high-performance, low-emission turbine expect the proportion of our supplier spend technology.
in emerging markets to increase.
Developing our capacity Our processes will increasingly include This year we have extended our own Information technology powder-based manufacturing, additive layer capacity and capability.
This included our In 2013, we invested over 100million in IT, manufacturing technologies and ultra-high new turbine blade factory in Rotherham, continuing with the modernisation of our temperature materials.
Knowledge-based UK and our new 17,000 square metre, IT infrastructure and also launching our Shop manufacturing is another developing area.
state-of-the-art discs manufacturing facility Floor IT modernisation programme.
We have Here, we will use dynamic computer models in Washington, UK, that has now started launched an Integrated Production Systems to design and verify processes.
When fully operational later this programme to address the need for approaches will increase design flexibility, year, it will have the capacity to manufacture simplified, globally scalable and secure speed of manufacture and performance.
over 2,000 fan and turbine discs annually.
The programme will improve We are also taking steps to adjust capacity delivery to the customer whilst improving Suppliers where market segments are contracting or efficiency and reducing operating costs.
We Strong relationships with our suppliers are demanding a lower price point.
Although are also investing in our customer systems critical to our performance.
We work closely our diverse portfolio helps us balance to improve the customer experience through to align our strategies as well as assessing growing and shrinking segments, we do the use of portals and digital workflow.
performance through our Supplier Advanced expect an ongoing need to adjust capacity Business Relationship SABRE requirements.
through plant renewal and closures.
Rolls-Royce has taken a leading role in the Advanced manufacturing establishment of the Aerospace Engine We apply advanced technologies, methods 687 million Supplier Quality Committee.
Through this and processes to deliver best in class Expenditure in 2013 on property, plant body, gas turbine engine makers and their manufacturing performance through our and equipment.
suppliers with input from regulatory Rolls-Royce Production System and the agencies aim to agree a set of common Advanced Manufacturing network, which industry-wide standards.
These will help We are delivering customer and business has developed over the past five years.
remove variability and waste, enabling the benefits as we continue to invest at record The advanced centres in this network bring aerospace supply chain to be leaner and levels and transform our industrial together university, government and more competitive.
industrial partners to provide a realistic To support UK suppliers in the global testing ground for new industrial techniques aerospace market, Rolls-Royce is sponsoring that improve yield and reduce costs.
These the UK Government-backed Sharing in have proved to be successful both for Growth programme.
It is a 110million Rolls-Royce and our supplier partners.
