Strategic Report 01-41 79 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Consolidated statement of cash flows Notes to the Group financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2013 For the year ended 31 December 2013 Except where indicated, values in these notes are in 000.
Rotork plc is a company domiciled in England.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The accounting policies contained below in note 1 and the disclosures in notes 2 to 30 all relate to the Group financial statements.
The Company balance sheet can be found following note 30.
As the Company has elected to continue reporting under UK GAAP, the applicable accounting policies are contained in note a, and notes b tok relate to the Companys financial statements.
1. accOunting pOlicies The accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of Rotork plc have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC Interpretations and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention subject to the items referred to in the derivative financial instruments accounting policy below.
New accounting standards and interpretations The amendments to IAS19 Employee benefits have been applied from 1 January 2013.
The principal change relates to the requirement to use the schemes discount rate to calculate the return on assets rather than using a rate of return appropriate to the various asset classes.
The amended standard also requires administration costs to be recognised separately from the current service cost in the income statement as they are incurred.
Due to the Group already expensing administration costs as they are incurred the current service cost has been split to separately disclose the administration cost comparative.
The application of the amended standard in the 2012 financial year would have increased the net pension interest cost by 588,000 from 390,000 to 978,000, reducing the pre-tax profit by 588,000.
The impact on the 2012 basic earnings per share would be a reduction of 0.5p to 102.6p.
As a result of the adjustments not being material to the income statement, balance sheet or shareholders equity prior year balances have not been restated.
The following standards and amendments have also been applied from 1 January 2013: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements amendments Application of these standards and amendments has not had any material impact on the disclosures, net assets or results of the Group.
Recent accounting developments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments has been issued but is not yet effective and has not been adopted as application was not mandatory for the year.
The directors anticipate that the adoption of this standard will not have a material impact on the disclosures, net assets or results of the Group.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the directors have considered trading and cash flow forecasts, financial commitments, the significant order book with customers spread across different geographic areas and industries and the significant net cash position.
Consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year to 31 December 2013.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains or losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
