Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 48 Corporate governance continued UK Corporate GovernanCe Code ComplianCe All directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM in line statement with the Code.
The following section on pages 48 to 55 is a summary of the system of corporate governance adopted by Rotork.
Throughout Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during 2013: the year ended 31 December 2013, Rotork plc fully complied with Audit Remuneration Nomination both the 2010 and 2012 versions of the UK Corporate Governance Board Committee Committee Committee Code Code.
The Code is available to download at www.
of Meetings 9 5 6 1 i RH Arnold 9 2 n a n a the Board of direCtors i JM Davis 9 5 n a n a The Board has a duty to promote the long-term success of Rotork i i PI France 9 5 6 1 for its shareholders.
Its role therefore includes approval of strategy, i GM Ogden 9 2 n a n a risk reviews, major contract approvals, finance matters and internal GB Bullard 9 5 6 1 control and risk management.
SA James 9 5 6 1 IG King 6 3 4 1 The terms and conditions of appointment of directors are available i i RC Lockwood 9 5 5 1 for inspection during business hours at the registered office of JE Nicholas 9 5 6 1 Rotork plc and at the AGM.
i By invitation Board Composition Rotork is led by an effective Board which consists of nine Roles and Responsibilities members: the Chairman, four independent non-executive directors There is a documented clear division of responsibilities between and four executive directors.
Apart from the Chairman, all the Chairman and the Chief Executive to ensure that there is a non-executive directors are considered to be independent from balance of power and authority between leadership of the Board Rotork and are appointed for an initial term of three years.
the completion of this term, the appointment is reviewed and, if appropriate, extended for up to a further two three year terms All directors are entitled to seek independent, professional advice following which the director normally retires.
at the Companys expense in order to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Rotork maintains appropriate directors The biographies of the directors and details of Board committee and officers insurance cover.
membership are set out on pages 42 to 43. how the Board operates effeCtively Balance of Independent Non-Executive Directors Length of Tenure of Independent Non-Executive Directors Board Activities and Executive Directors as at 31 December 2013 as at 31 December 2013 As part of Rotorks Board effectiveness, day-to-day responsibility for the running of the Company is delegated to executive management.
However, there are a number of matters where it is not considered appropriate to do this.
The Board therefore has a formal and documented schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes: Approval of Group strategy: Major capital projects and major contracts approval: Acquisition and disposal of any company, business or fixed asset in excess of agreed levels: Y ears Changes to Group corporate, capital, management or control 0 st3 ructures or listing status: Non-Executive Chairman 3 A6 pproval of preliminary announcements and results, annual Independent Non-Executive Directors 6 re9 port, dividends and significant changes in accountancy Executive Directors policies and procedures and treasury policy: Balance of Independent Non-Executive Directors Length of Tenure of Independent Non-Executive Directors Approval of bank borrowings exceeding a certain percentage of and Executive Directors as at 31 December 2013 as at 31 December 2013 the relevant companys turnover: Undertaking an annual assessment of the Group risk control process: Making appointments and removals following Nomination Committee recommendations and changing the size and composition of the Board: Succession planning: Determining membership and chairmanship of Board Committees: Appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditor following Audit Committee recommendation : Years Approval of all resolutions and corresponding documentation to 0 3 Non-Executive Chairman be put to the shareholders at a general meeting and the annual 3 6 Independent Non-Executive Directors report: 6 9 Executive Directors Strategic Report 01-41 49 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Corporate governance continued Approval of auditor, brokers and principal corporate finance adviser: Prosecution, defence or settlement of any material litigation: Approval of overall levels of insurance for the Group: Major changes to the Groups pension schemes.
In 2013, the Board met seven times at scheduled meetings and two times at additional meetings to consider other business including approval of Interim Management Statements.
The Chairman, through the Company Secretary, ensures that the Board agenda and all relevant information is circulated to the Board directors sufficiently in advance of the meeting.
The Chairman and the Company Secretary discuss the agenda in detail ahead of every meeting and the Chairman and Chief Executive always have a review meeting ahead of each Board meeting.
At least once annually, the Board travels to and meets at one of Rotorks locations other than its head office in Bath.
This allows the Board, and in particular the non-executive directors, the opportunity to gain a deeper understanding of overseas businesses and their markets and to interact with local management and staff as well as to view new capital investments and acquisitions.
In 2013, the Board visited Rotorks manufacturing facility in Lucca Italy.
The Board met and received presentations from local management.
Location of Board meetings 2013 Lucca, Italy 2012 Chennai, India 2011 Houston, USA 2010 Lucca, Italy 2009 Bilbao, Spain All Board directors constructively challenge executive management at Board meetings and are entitled to unfettered access to information and management across the Group should they require it.
Rotorks executive directors understand the distinction between their roles as executive managers and as Board directors.
The Chairman facilitates discussion by ensuring that all Board members have the opportunity to fully contribute to all agenda items at Board meetings and he always seeks to obtain unanimous decisions while allowing sufficient time for discussion and then drawing discussions to a close in an orderly manner.
This means that a range of views are offered by both executive and non-executive directors, when the Board discusses any particular issue or topic.
Rotork Board members come from a variety of professional backgrounds including engineering, legal, accountancy and international sales and collectively possess significant managerial experience as well as experience of being company directors of other public limited companies.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives presentations from senior management regarding that senior managers area of responsibility.
The Board has the opportunity to ask questions to senior management following their presentations.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director present to the Board the content of preliminary and half year results announcements and the Board is invited to comment on and approve those announcements.
The performance of the Board is enhanced by the good working relationship between the Chief Executive and the Chairman who continue to work together to ensure that the best use of the time and talents of the Board are applied at Board meetings.
