Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 120 Notes to the Company financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 d investments in the cOmpany balance sheet Shares in Group companies 2013 2012 At 1 January 43,205 43,205 Increased investment in subsidiary undertakings At 31 December 43,205 43,205 A listing of the principal subsidiaries of the Group, all of which are wholly owned, is set out below: Company and country of incorporation Nature of business Rotork Overseas Ltd, England and Wales Intermediate holding company for the following: Rotork Inc, USA Intermediate holding company.
1 Rotork Controls Inc, USA Manufacture and sale of actuators.
1 Remote Control Inc, USA 1 FlowQuip Inc, USA Assemble and distribute fluid power solutions.
1 Ralph A. Hiller Company, USA Manufacture and sale of actuators.
1 Rotork Thailand Ltd, Thailand 1 Ranger Acquisition Corp, USA Intermediate holding company.
2 Fairchild Industrial Products Company, USA Manufacture of high precision pneumatic controls.
2 KTork International Inc, USA Intermediate holding company.
2 Renfro Associates, Inc, USA Manufacture of valve adaption kits 3 Controls International Inc, USA Manufacture and sale of vane actuators.
Rotork Controls Iberia SL, Spain Sale of valve actuators.
4 Centork Valve Control SL, Spain Manufacture and sale of actuators.
Rotork Actuation Sdn Bhd, Malaysia Rotork Controls Deutschland GmbH, Germany Rotork Fluid Systems Srl, Italy Rotork Sweden AB, Sweden Rotork Controls Canada Ltd, Canada Sale of actuators.
Rotork Motorisation SAS, France Rotork BV, Netherlands Rotork Controls Singapore Pte Ltd, Singapore Rotork Australia Pty Ltd, Australia Rotork Controls fide Venezuela SA, Venezuela Rotork Ltd, Hong Kong Rotork Malaysia Sdn Bhd, Malaysia Rotork Controls Korea Co. Ltd, South Korea Rotork Africa Pty Limited, South Africa Rotork Japan Co. Ltd, Japan Rotork RUS Ltd, Russia Rotork Controls Comercio fide Atuadores LTDA, Brazil Rotork Norge AS, Norway Rotork Middle East FZE, Jebel Ali, Dubai Rotork Servo Controles fide Mexico SA fide CV, Mexico Rotork Controls Italia Srl, Italy 5 Rotork Gears Srl, Italy Manufacture and sale of gearboxes for actuators.
Rotork Gears BV, Netherlands Rotork Italy Holdings Srl, Italy Intermediate holding company.
6 GT Attuatori Srl, Italy Manufacturer of pneumatic rack and pinion.
6 Soldo Srl, Italy Design & Manufactures control accessories for automation.
7 Soldo Asia Pacific Pte Limited, Singapore Strategic Report 01-41 121 Directors 42-45 Governance 46-71 Financial Statements 72-123 Company Information 124-126 Company and country of incorporation Nature of business Rotork Germany Holdings GmbH, Germany Intermediate holding company.
8 Schischek Produktion Technischer Gerte GmbH, Germany Manufacturer of explosion-proof electric actuator 8 Schischek GmbH, Germany Sale of explosion-proof electric actuator 8 Max Process GmbH, Germany Manufacturer of pneumatic rack and pinion 9 GT Attuatori Europe GmbH, Germany Schischek AG, Switzerland Sale of explosion-proof electric actuators.
10 Schischek EURL, France 10 Schischek Srl, Italy 10 Schischek Ltd, England and Wales 10 Schischek Inc, USA 1 Owned by Rotork Inc, USA 2 Owned by Ranger Acquisition Corp, USA 3 Owned by KTork International Inc, USA 4 Owned by Rotork Controls Iberia SL, Spain 5 Owned by Rotork Controls Italia Srl, Italy 6 Owned by Rotork Italy Holdings Srl, Italy 7 Owned by Soldo Srl, Italy 8 Owned by Rotork Germany Holdings GmbH, Germany 9 Owned by Max Process GmbH, Germany 10 Owned by Schischek AG, Switzerland Rotork Controls Ltd, England and Wales Manufacture and sale of actuators, and Intermediate holding company for the following: Rotork UK Ltd, England and Wales Manufacture and sale of gearboxes and actuators.
Rotork Actuation Shanghai Co. Ltd, China Rotork Trading Shanghai Co. Ltd, China Sale of gearboxes and actuators.
Rotork Controls India Ltd, India Manufacture and sale of actuators.
A full list of undertakings is attached to the Annual Return of the Company.
