Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 104 Notes to the Group financial statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 23. derivative financial instruments 2013 2013 2012 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 3,067 32 1,507 70 Foreign exchange swaps cash flow hedges 670 747 26 Total 3,737 32 2,254 96 Less non-current portion: Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 804 Current portion 2,933 32 2,254 96 The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability, if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
There was no ineffectiveness to be recorded from the use of foreign exchange contracts.
The hedged forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates.
Gains and losses in respect of these derivatives recognised in the hedging reserve in equity note 17 at 31 December 2013 are recognised in the income statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the income statement.
24. pensiOn schemes i Defined benefit pension schemes The Group operates two defined benefit pension arrangements one in the UK called the Rotork Pension and Life Assurance Scheme UK Scheme and one in the USA called the Rotork Controls Inc. Pension Plan.
The Schemes provide benefits based on final salary and length of service on retirement, leaving service or death.
The UK Scheme is subject to the Statutory Funding Objective under the Pensions Act 2004.
A valuation of the Scheme is carried out at least once every three years to determine whether the Statutory Funding Objective is met.
As part of the process the Company must agree with the trustees of the Scheme the contributions to be paid to address any shortfall against the Statutory Funding Objective and contributions to pay for future accrual of benefits.
The UK Scheme is managed by a Trustee, with directors appointed in part by the Group and part from elections by members of the Scheme.
The Trustee has responsibility for obtaining valuations of the fund, administering benefit payments and investing the Schemes assets.
The Trustee delegates some of these functions to their professional advisers where appropriate.
The US Pension Plan is subject to the ERISA funding requirements.
A valuation of the Plan is valued yearly to ensure the Funding Objective is met under ERISA by contributing at least the Minimum Required Contribution.
As part of this process the Company must contribute to the Plan enough contributions to ensure at least the Minimum Contribution is deposited in the Trust to pay for the accrual of benefits.
The two defined benefit pension arrangements expose the Group to a number of risks: Investment risk.
The Schemes hold investments in asset classes, such as equities, which have volatile market values and while these assets are expected to provide real returns over the long-term the short-term volatility can cause additional funding to be required if a deficit emerges.
The Schemes liabilities are assessed using market yields on high quality corporate bonds to discount the liabilities.
As the Scheme holds assets such as equities the value of the assets and liabilities may not move in the same way.
A significant proportion of the benefits under the Schemes are linked to inflation.
Although the Schemes assets are expected to provide a good hedge against inflation over the long term, movements over the short-term could lead to deficits emerging.
In the event that members live longer than assumed a deficit will emerge in the Scheme.
There were no plan amendments, curtailments or settlements during the period.
