RPC Group Plc 118 Annual report and accounts 2013 explANAtory Notes to the resolutioNs Resolution 1: To Receive and Adopt the Report and Accounts The business of the Annual General Meeting AGM will begin with a resolution to receive the financial statements, together with the reports ofthe directors and auditors, in respect of the year ended 31 March 2013.
The Annual Report and Accounts 2013 is available on the Companys website and copies will be available at the AGM.
Resolution 2: To Approve the Remuneration Report Under section 439 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required to give shareholders the opportunity to cast an advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The Remuneration report is set out in full on pages 49 to 60 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
Alternatively, the Remuneration report is obtainable on request from the Company Secretary at the registered officeof the Company, or from the Companys website.
Resolution 3: To Declare a Final Dividend The Company paid an interim dividend of 4.3p per ordinary share on 25 January 2013.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 10.6p per ordinary share bringing the total dividend for the year to 14.9p per ordinary share.
If Resolution 3 is approved by shareholders the final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 will be paid on 6 September 2013 to shareholders whose names are on the register of members at the close of business on 9 August 2013.
Resolutions 4 to 9: Re-election and Election of Directors of the Company Resolutions 4 to 9 are concerned with the re-election and election of directors at this years AGM.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any director who was a director at the two preceding AGMs and who was not appointed or re-appointed by the Company in general meeting at or since either such meeting, shall retire from office.
Retiring directors are eligible for re-election.
However, the Board has adopted a policy of annual re-election of all directors in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of the re-election of directors of FTSE 350 companies.
Consequently, all the directors will retire from office and, being eligible, submit themselves for re-election on an individual basis at the AGM.
The Companys Articles of Association permit any director appointed by the Board since the date of the last AGM to hold office only until the dateof the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The director is then eligible for election by shareholders.
S J Kesterton was appointed by the Board as an executive director on 1 April 2013 and being eligible, submits himself for election at the AGM and annuallythereafter.
The biographical details for each director and other relevant information can be found on pages 38 and 39 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
Details of the directors service contracts or terms of appointment are described in the Remuneration report on page 54 and the performance evaluation procedure is described in the Corporate governance report on page 45 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
Following individual formal performance evaluation by the Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, by the Senior Independent Director, the Board confirms that the performance of each director submitting themselves for re-election continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to the role and recommends them for re-election.
The knowledge, experience and contribution made by each director to the Board is set out below: Since his appointment J R P Pike, Chairman, has made a significant contribution to the Group as a result of his experience in strategic and operational improvement and development in a range of UK and international businesses and through his effective leadership of the Board.
I Haaijer, independent non-executive director, makes a valuable contribution to the Board as a result of her management and relevant international business and market experience.
S Rojahn, independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, makes a valuable contribution to the Board through his engineering and management expertise and his experience in industry in Europe as well as in emerging markets including China, India and Latin America.
M G Towers, Senior Independent Director, is a chartered accountant with extensive financial and managerial experience as Finance Director of a variety of businesses and has made a considerable contribution to the Company in his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
P R M Vervaat, Chief Executive, joined the Board in 2007 with experience in various financial roles in the Netherlands, UK, Germany and Belgium.
He has strong strategic and financial accounting skills and has been instrumental in the success of RPC 2010, the implementation ofGroup strategy and the refinancing of Group borrowings.
He acceded to the role of Chief Executive on 1 May 2013.
The process followed for S J Kestertons selection as Group Finance Director can be found in the Nomination Committee section of the Corporate governance report on pages 43 and 44 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
Although only recently appointed, S J Kesterton isundergoing an intensive induction programme and is already making a valuable contribution to the Board as a result of his commercial and financial skills gained from operating in a competitive international manufacturing environment and extensive experience in leading acquisitions.
Accordingly, your Board recommends his election as a director of the Company.
016379 RPC AR13 Shareholder informationp113 128. indd 118 06 06 2013 14:53 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 119 Annual report and accounts 2013 Resolution 10: To Appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys Auditors Auditors must be appointed at every AGM at which accounts are presented to the shareholders.
KPMG Audit Plc has advised that, due to an internal reorganisation, it has decided to wind down its audit business and transfer it to KPMG LLP.
Consequently, KPMG Audit Plc has notified the Company that it is not seeking reappointment at the AGM and KPMG LLP has advised its willingness to stand for appointment asthe auditors of the Company.
The statement of circumstances required from KPMG Audit Plc under section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 is reproduced in Appendix 1.
The Board recommends the appointment of KPMG LLP following recommendation by the Audit Committee which has considered the circumstances of the change of auditors and conducted an evaluation of the auditors effectiveness, independence and objectivity.
The Audit Committee conducted a tender process in 2012, in which KPMG were successful.
The policy on the frequency of external auditor tenders is given in the Audit Committee section of the Corporate governance report on page 46 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
Resolution 11: To Authorise the Directors to fix the Auditors Remuneration Shareholders will be asked to grant authority to the directors of the Company to determine the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 12: To Adopt the RPC Group 2013 Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Option Schemes Shareholders will be asked to approve the Approved Executive Scheme and the Unapproved Executive Scheme, as summarised in Appendix 2.
Resolution 13: To Adopt the RPC Group 2013 Approved and International Sharesave Schemes Shareholders will be asked to approve the Approved Sharesave Scheme and the International Sharesave Scheme, as summarised in Appendix 3.
Resolution 14: Authority to Allot Shares The directors of the Company may allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares only if authorised to do so by shareholders.
The authority granted at the last AGM is due to expire at this years AGM.
Accordingly, Resolution 14 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to grant new authorities to allot shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares.
If given, these authorities will expire at the AGM in 2014 or on 30 September 2014, whichever is the earlier.
Paragraph a of Resolution 14 will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 2,768,547, representing onethird of the Companys existing issued share capital calculated as at 4 June 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
In accordance with the latest institutional guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, paragraph b of Resolution 14 will also allow directors to allot, including the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a of Resolution 14, further ordinary shares in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of 5,537,925, representing approximately two thirds 66.67per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital calculated as at 4 June 2013.
The directors have no immediate plans to make use of this authority with the exception of the issue of further ordinary shares to fulfil the Companys obligations under its various employee share option schemes.
However, if they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow emerging best practice as regards its use including, where appropriate, the directors standing for re-election as recommended by the Association of British Insurers.
As at 4 June 2013 the Company held no treasury shares.
Resolution 15: Notice of General Meetings other than Annual General Meetings The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 for general meetings of the Company is at least 21 clear days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days.
AGMs must be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
Previously, the Company was able to call general meetings other than an AGM on at least 14 clear days notice without obtaining such shareholder approval.
In order to preserve this ability, Resolution 15 seeks the necessary shareholder approval which will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business ofthe meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
In order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of electronic voting available toall shareholders for that meeting.
016379 RPC AR13 Shareholder informationp113 128. indd 119 06 06 2013 14:53 RPC Group Plc 120 Annual report and accounts 2013 explANAtory Notes to the resolutioNs continued Resolution 16: Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights The directors of the Company also require additional authority from the shareholders to allot shares or grant rights over shares or sell treasury shares where they propose to do so for cash and otherwise than to existing shareholders pro-rata to their holdings.
Resolution 16 seeks to renew the authority granted to the directors, at the AGM held on 18 July 2012, to allot securities of the Company up to a specified amount in connection with a rights issue without having to obtain prior approval from shareholders on each occasion, and also to allot a smaller number ofthese for cash or to sell treasury shares without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
Resolution 16 will be proposed as a special resolution to grant such authority.
The number of shares which may be issued for cash under the latter authority will not exceed an aggregate nominal amount of 415,323, being approximately 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at 4 June 2013 the last practicable day prior to the publication of this notice.
In addition, the number of shares which may be issued for cash other than to existing shareholders, will not exceed 7.5% of the Companys total issued share capital in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
If given, the authority to disapply pre-emption rights will terminate not later than 30 September 2014.
Resolution 17: Purchase by the Company of its own Shares The directors consider that there may be circumstances in which it would be desirable for the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
Although the directors have no plans to make such purchases they would like to be able to act if circumstances arose in which they considered such purchases to be desirable.
Under Article 5 of the Companys Articles of Association, authority is granted to the Company topurchase its own shares subject to the provision of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 17 proposes that the Companys authority to purchase up to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company be renewed by special resolution.
The authority will terminate not later than 30September 2014.
The authority is restricted to a maximum of 16,612,944 shares which is equivalent to approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 4 June 2013.
The maximum and minimum prices are stated in this resolution.
The directors of the Company believe that it is advantageous for the Company to have this flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
In the event that shares are purchased, they may either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue would be reduced accordingly or retained as treasury shares.
The Companies Act 2006 enables companies to hold shares repurchased as treasury shares with a view to possible re-sale at a future date rather than having to cancel them.
The Company will consider holding repurchased shares pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 17 as treasury shares.
This would give the Company the ability to re-issue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively and would provide the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Any issues of treasury shares for the purposes of the Companys employee share schemes will be made within the 10% anti-dilution limit set by the Association of British Insurers.
The directors of the Company will only exercise this authority to purchase shares if they are satisfied that a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Incentive schemes for directors with earnings per share targets would be adjusted for any reduction in issued share capital.
016379 RPC AR13 Shareholder informationp113 128. indd 120 06 06 2013 14:53 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 121 Annual report and accounts 2013 Appendix 1 KPMG Audit Plc Tel 44 0 121 232 3000 One Snowhill Fax 44 0 121 232 3500 Snow Hill Queensway DX 709850 Birmingham 26 Birmingham B4 6GH United Kingdom Private & confidential The Directors RPC Group Plc Sapphire House Crown Way Rushden Northamptonshire NN10 6FB 5 June 2013 Dear Sirs Statement to RPC Group Plc no.
02578443 on ceasing to hold office as auditors pursuant to section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 The circumstances connected with our ceasing to hold office are that our company, KPMG Audit Plc, has instigated an orderly wind down ofbusiness.
KPMG LLP, an intermediate parent, will be accepting appointment as statutory auditor at the companys AGM on 10 July 2013.
We request that any correspondence in relation to this statement be sent to our registered office 15 Canada Square, London E14 5GL marked for the attention of the Audit Regulation Department.
Yours faithfully, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG Audit Plc, a UK public limited company, is a subsidiary of KPMG Europe LLP anda member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated Registered in England No 3110745 withKPMG International Cooperative, a Swiss entity.
Registered office: 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 016379 RPC AR13 Shareholder informationp113 128. indd 121 07 06 2013 12:27 RPC Group Plc 122 Annual report and accounts 2013 explANAtory Notes to the resolutioNs continued Appendix 2 Summary of the principal terms of the RPC Group 2013 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme the Approved Executive Scheme and the RPC Group 2013 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme the Unapproved Executive Scheme, together, the Executive Schemes and each an Executive Scheme This summary does not form part of either Executive Scheme and should not be taken as affecting the interpretation of their rules.
General The Executive Scheme provides for options to be granted over unissued shares or shares held in a trust.
The Approved Executive Scheme has been submitted for approval by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC in accordance with Schedule 4 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 in order to provide UK tax-advantaged benefits to UK employees.
The Executive Schemes will be administered by the board of directors of the Company or a duly authorised committee of the Board the Board.
Eligibility Any employee including an executive director of the Company or any participating member of the RPC Group who is required to devote substantially the whole of his working time to his employment or office is eligible to participate in the Executive Schemes.
The Board may in itsabsolute discretion grant options to eligible employees to acquire ordinary shares of the Company Shares.
Timing of and Consideration for Grant of Options Options may be granted within 42 days after the date of approval by HMRC in the case of the Approved Executive Scheme or the Company ingeneral meeting in the case of the Unapproved Executive Scheme the Commencement Date.
Otherwise options may be granted within 42days after the announcement of the Companys results for any period or at any other time at which the Board determines that there are exceptional circumstances which justify the grant of an option.
Subject to the above, options may be granted at any time within the period oftenyears PROVIDED THAT no option may be granted at any time at which a dealing would not be permitted under the Model Code.
No payment is required for the grant of an option.
Conditions on Exercise The Board may grant an option subject to such performance condition and or other objective condition or conditions as it in its discretion sees fit.
A performance condition attached to an option shall not be capable of variation or waiver unless events happen which cause the Board to consider that such performance condition shall have ceased to be appropriate whereupon the Board may vary or waive such performance condition so that any new performance condition imposed or any variation is in its opinion fair and reasonable and no more difficult to satisfy than the previous performance condition.
Exercise Price The exercise price of an option shall be determined by the Board and shall not be less than the middle market closing price of a Share on the dealing day immediately prior to the date of grant or, if the Board decides, the average middle market price of a Share for the three dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant or, in the case only of an option to subscribe for Shares, the nominal value of a Share if higher.
Exercise and Lapse of Options In normal circumstances, an option is capable of exercise at any time between the third and tenth anniversaries of its date of grant provided that any performance condition s to which it is subject shall have been fulfilled or waived.
An option lapses on the expiry of ten years from its date of grant.
An option shall become exercisable immediately on the death of a participant for a period of 12 months commencing on the date of the participants death.
On his ceasing to hold office or employment with the RPC Group by reason of injury, disability, redundancy or retirement, anoption shall be capable of exercise for a period of six months from the date of cessation or the date on which the Board determines that any performance condition s have been satisfied.
On the sale or transfer out of the RPC Group of his her employing company or business, or any other reason permitted by the Board, an option shall be exercisable for a period of 12 months commencing on the date of such cessation or the third anniversary of grant, if later, or the date on which the Board determines that any performance condition s have been satisfied.
016379 RPC AR13 Shareholder informationp113 128. indd 122 06 06 2013 14:53 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 123 Annual report and accounts 2013 Individual Limits No option may be granted to any individual at any time if, as a result, the aggregate market value of Shares subject to that option and to options and other rights granted to him during the preceding twelve months a under either of the Executive Schemes: b under either the RPC Group 2003 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme or the RPC Group 2003 Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme: or c by any member of the RPC Group pursuant to Schedule 5 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003, would exceed his cash earnings excluding bonuses.
Where the employee commenced employment within the previous 12 months or where the Board determines that special circumstances exist, the limit is twice his cash earnings excluding bonuses.
There is a second limit in the case of the Approved Executive Scheme only, being that the aggregate market value of Shares which are subject to options granted to a participant under the Approved Executive Scheme or any other share option scheme approved by HMRC under Schedule 4 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 shall not exceed 30,000.
Any options granted over the 30,000 limit shall be void to the extent that the limit is exceeded.
Overall Limits On any date, no option may be granted under an Executive Scheme if, as a result, either of the following limits would be exceeded: a t he aggregate number of Shares issued or committed to be issued pursuant to grants made during the previous ten years under the relevant Executive Scheme and under all other employee share schemes established by the Company would exceed 10%.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on that date: or b the aggregate number of Shares issued or committed to be issued pursuant to grants made under the relevant Executive Scheme and during the previous ten years under all other discretionary employee share option schemes established by the Company would exceed 5%.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on that date.
Shares that have been the subject of options or rights granted under any share scheme which have lapsed or been surrendered shall not be taken into account for the purposes of these limits.
Treasury shares will count as Shares issued or committed to be issued while institutional guidelines require this.
Alterations of Share Capital In the event of any variation in the share capital of the Company, adjustments to the number of Shares subject to options and the exercise price may be made by the Board in such manner and with effect from such date as the Board may determine to be appropriate, and in the case of the Approved Executive Scheme, provided always that any such adjustment is subject to the prior approval of HMRC.
Takeovers, Reconstructions and Liquidations Rights to exercise options early for a period of six months also arise if another company acquires control of the Company as a result of atakeover, compromise or scheme of arrangement.
On a change of control or reconstruction of the Company, options may, with the consent of the company acquiring control of the Company, be released in consideration for the grant of equivalent rights over the shares of the acquiring company or a company associated with it.
Rights are equivalent if, broadly speaking, the aggregate market values of the shares under both the old and new options and the aggregate exercise price of each option are, on the day of exchange, equal.
If the Company passes a resolution for a voluntary winding-up, any subsisting option must be exercised within six months of the passing of that resolution or it lapses.
Voting, Dividend and other Rights Until options are exercised, option holders have no voting or other rights in respect of the Shares subject to their options.
Shares issued or transferred pursuant to an Executive Scheme shall rank pari passu in all respects with the ordinary shares already in issue except that they will not rank for any dividend or other distribution paid or made by reference to a record date falling prior to the date of exercise of the option.
Benefits obtained under an Executive Scheme shall not be pensionable.
Options are not assignable or transferable.
016379 RPC AR13 Shareholder informationp113 128. indd 123 06 06 2013 14:53 RPC Group Plc 124 Annual report and accounts 2013 explANAtory Notes to the resolutioNs continued Administration and Amendments The Executive Schemes will be administered by the Board which may amend them by resolution provided that: a no amendment may be made which would alter to the disadvantage of a participant any rights already acquired by him under the relevant Executive Scheme without the prior approval of the majority of the affected participants: b in the case of the Approved Executive Scheme, no alteration shall have effect unless it complies with the requirements of Schedule 4 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003: and c p rior approval of the Company in general meeting will be required for any amendment to the advantage of participants to those provisions ofthe Executive Schemes relating to eligibility, the limitations on the number of Shares subject to the relevant Executive Scheme, a participants maximum entitlement or the basis for determining a participants entitlement under the relevant Executive Scheme and theadjustment thereof in the event of a variation in capital, except in the case of minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Executive Schemes and amendments to take account of changes in legislation, to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment of participants or for any member of the RPC Group or, in the case of the Approved Executive Scheme only, to obtain ormaintain HMRC approval.
Overseas Schemes The Board may at any time and without further formality establish further share option schemes in overseas territories, any such scheme to be similar to the relevant Executive Scheme but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws, regulation or practice.
Shares made available under any such scheme will count against any limits on overall or individual participation in the schemes, except that only shares issued or issuable will count against the overall limits.
Termination Each Executive Scheme may be terminated at any time by resolution of the Board or of the Company in general meeting and shall in any event terminate on the tenth anniversary of the date on which HMRC approval is obtained in the case of the Approved Executive Scheme and the tenth anniversary of the date on which the Unapproved Executive Scheme was approved by the Company in general meeting in the case of the Unapproved Executive Scheme.
Termination will not affect the outstanding rights of participants.
016379 RPC AR13 Shareholder informationp113 128. indd 124 06 06 2013 14:53 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 125 Annual report and accounts 2013 Appendix 3 Summary of the principal terms of the RPC Group 2013 Sharesave Scheme the Approved Sharesave Scheme and the RPC Group 2013 International Sharesave Scheme the International Sharesave Scheme, together, the Sharesave Schemes and each a Sharesave Scheme This summary does not form part of either Sharesave Scheme and should not be taken as affecting the interpretation of their rules.
General The Sharesave Schemes which are savings-related share option schemes replace the existing savings-related share option scheme which expires in mid-July 2013.
The Approved Sharesave Scheme has been submitted for approval by HMRC in accordance with Schedule 3 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 in order to provide UK tax-advantaged benefits to UK employees.
The Sharesave Schemes will be administered by the Board.
Eligibility Any employee including an executive director of the Company or any participating member of the RPC Group and, in the case of the Approved Sharesave Scheme only, who is a UK taxpayer, is eligible to participate in a Sharesave Scheme.
Participation may be subject to the Board requiring eligible employees to have completed a qualifying period of employment of up to 5 years.
The Savings Contract To participate in a Sharesave Scheme, an employee must enter into a savings contract with an appropriate savings carrier under which they agree to make aggregate monthly savings between and including the statutory minimum and maximum 5 and 250 per month respectively orsuch other amounts as may from time to time be permitted under the savings contract, or any other lesser maximum specified by the Board, for a specified savings period of three or five years.
The Board has discretion to determine which savings contract will be available in respect ofany invitation to apply for the grant of options.
In the case of the Approved Sharesave Scheme only, a bonus determined by HMRC may be payable after the expiration of the savings period.
Timing of invitations Invitations to participate in the Approved Sharesave Scheme will only be issued within 42 days after the date of approval by HMRC or within 28days after i the announcement of the Companys results for any period, ii the date on which a new savings contract prospectus is announced or takes effect or iii the date on which any change to the legislation affecting savings-related option schemes takes effect.
Invitations to participate in the International Sharesave Scheme will only be issued within 28 days after the announcement of the Companys results for any period.
In both cases, invitations may also be issued at any other time at which the Board determines that there are exceptional circumstances which justify the grant of options.
Grant of Options Options can only be granted under the Sharesave Schemes to employees who have entered into a savings contract which in the case of the Approved Sharesave Scheme only, must be an HMRC-approved savings contract.
For the Approved Sharesave Scheme only, options must be granted within 30 days or 42 days if applications are scaled back of the first day byreference to which the option price is set.
The number of Shares under option is equal to that number of Shares which may be acquired at the option price with the proceeds of the savings contract including the bonus in the case of the Approved Sharesave Scheme at maturity.
The Board may impose a limit on the number of Shares over which options may be granted in which case applications from employees may be scaled down.
In the case of the International Sharesave Scheme, the Board may adjust the number of Shares over which options may be granted by taking into account the applicable interest rate and or exchange rate.
Exercise price The option exercise price per Share will be the market value of a Share when invitations to participate in the Sharesave Scheme are issued lessa discount of up to 20% or, in the case of an option to subscribe, the nominal value of a Share if higher.
Market value is determined as themiddle market quotation of a Share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange on the last dealing day before invitations to participate in the Scheme are sent out or, if the Board so decides, the average of the middle market quotations over the three dealing days preceding that date.
016379 RPC AR13 Shareholder informationp113 128. indd 125 06 06 2013 14:53 RPC Group Plc 126 Annual report and accounts 2013 explANAtory Notes to the resolutioNs continued Exercise and Lapse of Options In normal circumstances, an option may be exercised within six months 12 months in the case of death following: a the maturity date in the case of the International Sharesave Scheme: or b the date on which the bonus is payable under the savings contract in the case of the Approved Sharesave Scheme the Maturity Date andany option not exercised within that period will lapse.
An option may be exercised earlier than the Maturity Date, for a limited period, on the death of a participant or on his her ceasing to hold office oremployment with the RPC Group by reason of injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, the sale or transfer out of the RPC Group of his employing company or business or provided the option was granted more than three years previously, for any other reason.
Except where stated above, options will lapse on cessation of employment.
Options may be satisfied by the issue of new Shares or by the transfer of existing Shares, either from treasury or otherwise.
Limit on issue of new Shares The Sharesave Schemes may operate over new issue shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the market.
However, no option may be granted under the Sharesave Scheme if, as a result, the aggregate number of Shares issued or committed to be issued pursuant to grants made under the relevant Sharesave Scheme and during the previous ten years under all other employee share schemes established by the Company would exceed 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company on that date.
Treasury shares will count as Shares issued or committed to be issued while institutional investor guidelines require this.
Alterations of Share Capital In the event of any variation in the share capital of the Company, adjustments to the number of Shares subject to options and the exercise price may be made by the Board in such manner and with effect from such date as the Board may determine to be appropriate, and in the case of the Approved Sharesave Scheme, provided always that any such adjustment is subject to the prior approval of HMRC.
Takeovers, Reconstructions and Liquidations Rights to exercise options early for a limited period also arise if another company acquires control of the Company as a result of a takeover, compromise or scheme of arrangement.
An option may be exchanged for an option over shares in the acquiring company if the participant so wishes and the acquiring company agrees.
Shares issued or transferred pursuant to a Sharesave Scheme shall rank pari passu in all respects with the ordinary shares already in issue except that they will not rank for any dividend or other distribution paid or made by reference to a record date falling prior to the date of exercise of the option.
Benefits obtained under a Sharesave Scheme shall not be pensionable.
Administration and Amendments The Sharesave Schemes will be administered by the Board which may amend them by resolution provided that: a n o amendment may be made which would alter to the disadvantage of a participant any rights already acquired by him under a Sharesave Scheme without the prior approval of the majority of the affected participants: b in the case of the Approved Sharesave Scheme, no alteration shall have effect unless it complies with the requirements of Schedule 3 to the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003: and c p rior approval of the Company in general meeting will be required for any amendment to the advantage of participants to those provisions ofthe relevant Sharesave Scheme relating to eligibility, the limitations on the number of Shares subject to the Sharesave Scheme, a participants maximum entitlement or the basis for determining a participants entitlement under the relevant Sharesave Scheme and the adjustment thereof in the event of a variation in capital, except in the case of minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Sharesave Schemes and amendments to take account of changes in legislation, to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment of participants or for any member of the RPC Group or, in the case of the Approved Sharesave Scheme only, to obtain or maintain HMRC approval.
016379 RPC AR13 Shareholder informationp113 128. indd 126 06 06 2013 14:53 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 127 Annual report and accounts 2013 Overseas Schemes The Board may at any time and without further formality establish further schemes in overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to the Approved Sharesave Scheme but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws, regulation or practice.
Shares made available under any such scheme will count against the limit on the number of new Shares which may be issued under the Scheme.
The Board may also amend the International Sharesave Scheme to obtain or maintain any governmental or regulatory body approval pursuant to local legislation and amend the operation of the International Sharesave Scheme to take account of local tax, exchange control or securities laws, regulation or practice.
Termination The Sharesave Schemes may be terminated at any time by resolution of the Board or of the Company in general meeting and shall in any event terminate on the tenth anniversary of the date on which HMRC approval is obtained in the case of the Approved Sharesave Scheme, or on the date on which the Approved Sharesave Scheme terminates in the case of the International Sharesave Scheme.
