RPC Group Plc 66 Annual report and accounts 2013 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND OF RPC GROUP PLC THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We have audited the financial statements of RPC Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 set out on pages 69 to 109.
The financial reporting framework The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and, as regards and regulations.
the parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Company financial statements on the same basis.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 66, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in business.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group In our opinion: and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2013 and of the Groups Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration report and Corporate profit for the year then ended: governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In our opinion: A statement in relation to the adoption of the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements appears on page 64. the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
By order of the Board MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: J R P Pike P R M Vervaat Chairman Chief Executive adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or 05 June 2013 05 June 2013 the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
