RPC Group Plc 116 Annual report and accounts 2013 Notes relAtiNG to the Notice 1.
Right to attend and vote Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and section 360 b 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company specifies that in order to have the right to attend and vote at the meeting and also for the purpose of determining how many votes a person entitled to attend and vote may cast, a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company at 6.00 p. m. on Monday 8 July 2013 or, in the event of any adjournment, at 6.00 p. m. on the date which is two days before the day of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Proxies A member of the Company is entitled to appoint another person as his proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, to speak and to vote atthe meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by him her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy for the meeting isenclosed.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be received by post or by hand during normal business hours only by the Companys registrars, Equiniti, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, United Kingdom or electronically at www.
co. uk using the Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number set out on the form s of proxy, in each case not later than 12.00 p. m. on Monday 8 July 2013.
If you are a CREST member, see note 3 below.
Completion of a form of proxy, or other instrument appointing a proxy or any CREST Proxy Instruction will not preclude a member attending andvoting in person at the meeting if he she wishes to do so.
A Vote Withheld option is provided on the form of proxy which enables a member to abstain on any particular resolution.
It should be noted that a Vote Withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes For or Against a resolution.
CREST members CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrars, Equiniti ID RA19 by 12.00 p. m. on Monday 8 July 2013.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited doesnot make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply inrelation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is aCREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Nominated persons Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights aNominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him her and the member by whom he she was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right, under such agreement, to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the above rights of the members in relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
016379 RPC AR13 Shareholder informationp113 128. indd 116 06 06 2013 14:53 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc 117 Annual report and accounts 2013 5.
Corporate Representatives Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as amember provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Right to ask questions Any member attending the Annual General Meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such questionrelating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Documents on display Copies of executive directors service agreements and copies of the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours from the date of this notice until the close of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
A copy of the draft Rules of the Approved Executive Scheme, the Unapproved Executive Scheme, the Approved Sharesave Scheme and the International Sharesave Scheme are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours from the date ofthis notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Website publication of audit concerns Pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report andthe conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 ofthe Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may bedealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publishon a website.
Website address A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
Total number of shares and voting rights As at 4 June 2013 being the last practicable day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 166,129,448 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at that date are 166,129,448.
Communication You may not use any electronic address within the meaning of section 333 4 of the Companies Act 2006 provided in this Notice of Meeting orin any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
