Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Shareholders diary Financial reporting calendar and annual general meeting Interim management statement and annual general meeting July 2013 Announcement of interim results, for half-year to September November 2013 Interim management statement January 2014 Preliminary announcement of annual results May 2014 Annual financial statements published June 2014 Dividends Declared Paid Ordinary: Interim November December Final May August Unsolicited investment advice warning to shareholders Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
A 2006 survey by the Financial Services Authority, now the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, reported that the average amount lost by investors was around 20,000.
Itisnot just the novice investor that has been duped in this way: many of the victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports into thecompany.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved.
uk rms systemsreporting register search The FCA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas rms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FCA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
Report the matter to the FCA either by calling 0800 111 6768 or by completing an online form at: http: www.
uk consumers scams investment-scams  reporting-form.
If you deal with an unauthorised rm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
South African shareholders may report such approaches to the Financial Services Board FSB on: Toll Free: 0800 110443 or 0800 202087 Email: info@fsb.
co. za Complete the FSB online complaint form which can be found on their website www.
