Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the consolidated financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the consolidated financial In addition, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to provide statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
thegroups auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be Company law requires the directors to prepare consolidated financial appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
statements for each financial year.
The directors have prepared the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Each of the directors, having made appropriate enquiries, Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European con rmsthat: Union.
The consolidated financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and of the so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information pro t or loss of the group for that year.
of which the groups auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the groups auditors are select suitable accounting policies and then apply them aware of that information.
consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The directors have reviewed the groups performance for the year and state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted the principal risks it faces, together with the budget and cash ow by the European Union: and forecasts, in particular with reference to the period to the end of prepare the consolidated financial statements on the going concern September 2014, and the application of reasonably possible basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group will sensitivities associated with these forecasts.
On the basis of this continue in business, in which case there should be supporting review, and in the light of the current financial position and existing assumptions or quali cations as necessary.
committed borrowing facilities, the directors are satis ed that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence The directors con rm that they have complied with the above and therefore have continued to adopt the going concern basis in requirements in preparing the financial statements.
preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting A copy of the financial statements of the group is placed on the records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the companys website.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance financial position of the group and to enable them to ensure that and integrity of statutory and audited information on the companys theconsolidated financial statements comply with the Companies website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many Act2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the United responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial fortaking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Governance section of the Annual Report, con rms that, to the best of their knowledge: the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared inaccordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fairview of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the group: and the management report incorporated into the directors report contained in the Governance section of the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
