fide nitions Financial fide nitions Free cash ow This comprises net cash generated from operating activities less Adjusted earnings cashpaid for the purchase of property, plant and equipment, and Adjusted earnings are calculated by adjusting headline earnings as intangible assets, net investments in existing associates and joint fide ned below for the amortisation of intangible assets excluding ventures in both cases only where there is no change in the groups computer software, integration and restructuring costs, the fair value effective ownership percentage and dividends paid to non-controlling movements in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting interests plus cash received from the sale of property, plant and cannot be applied and other items which have been treated as equipment and intangible assets and dividends received.
exceptional but not included above or as headline earnings adjustments together with the groups share of associates and joint Group revenue ventures adjustments for similar items.
The tax and non-controlling This comprises revenue together with the groups share of revenue interests in respect of these items are also adjusted.
from associates and joint ventures.
Adjusted EBITDA Headline earnings This comprises EBITDA as fide ned below before cash ows from Headline earnings are calculated by adjusting pro t for the financial exceptional items and includes dividends received from our joint period attributable to owners of the parent for items in accordance venture, MillerCoors.
Dividends received from MillerCoors with the South African Circular 3 2012 entitled Headline Earnings.
approximate to the groups share of the EBITDA of the MillerCoors Such items include impairments of non-current assets and pro ts or joint venture.
losses on disposals of non-current assets and their related tax and non-controlling interests.
This also includes the groups share of Adjusted EBITDA margin associates and joint ventures adjustments on the same basis.
This is calculated by expressing adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue plus the groups share of MillerCoors revenue.
Interest cover This is the ratio of adjusted EBITDA to adjusted net finance costs.
Adjusted net finance costs This comprises net finance costs excluding fair value movements in Net debt relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be This comprises gross debt including borrowings, borrowings-related applied and any exceptional finance charges or income.
derivative financial instruments, overdrafts and finance leases net of cash and cash equivalents excluding overdrafts.
Adjusted pro t before tax This comprises EBITA less adjusted net finance costs and less the Organic information groups share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs on Organic results and volumes exclude the first 12 months results and asimilar basis.
volumes relating to acquisitions and the last 12 months results and volumes relating to disposals.
Constant currency Constant currency results have been determined by translating the Total Shareholder Return TSR local currency denominated results for the year ended 31 March at TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has provided for the exchange rates for the prior year.
itsshareholders, re ecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
EBITA This comprises operating pro t before exceptional items, amortisation Sales volumes of intangible assets excluding computer software and includes the In the determination and disclosure of sales volumes, the group groups share of associates and joint ventures operating pro t on a aggregates 100% of the volumes of all consolidated subsidiaries and similar basis.
its equity accounted percentage of all associates and joint ventures volumes.
Contract brewing volumes are excluded from volumes EBITA margin % although revenue from contract brewing is included within group This is calculated by expressing EBITA as a percentage of group revenue.
Volumes exclude intra-group sales volumes.
ofvolumes is used for lager volumes, soft drinks volumes, other alcoholic beverage volumes and beverage volumes and is used in the EBITDA segmental analyses as it more closely aligns with the consolidated This comprises the net cash generated from operations before group revenue and EBITA disclosures.
This includes cash ows relating to exceptional items incurred in the year.
KPI fide nitions How we measure EBITDA margin % This is calculated by expressing EBITDA as a percentage of revenue.
Total Shareholder Return TSR in excess of the median of peer group over five-year periods Effective tax rate % 2012 and 2011: three-year periods The effective tax rate is calculated by expressing tax before tax on TSR performance is measured by taking the percentage growth in exceptional items and on amortisation of intangible assets excluding our TSR over the five-year period 2012 and 2011: three-year period computer software, including the groups share of associates and to the date aligned with the related measurement date of performance joint ventures tax on the same basis, as a percentage of adjusted share awards for the excom, and deducting the percentage growth in pro t before tax.
the TSR of the median of our peer group over the same period.
180 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS Cumulative financial bene ts from our business Growth in adjusted EPS is measured by comparing the adjusted capabilityprogramme EPSfor the current year with that of the prior year.
Adjusted EPS is Incremental cash ows generated as a result of the adoption of new measured using adjusted earnings divided by the basic number of processes and systems including incremental revenues, reduced cost shares in issue.
Adjusted earnings are measured using the fide nition of goods sold and overheads, reduced investment in working capital on page 180. and lower cost of capital investments.
Free cash ow Free cash ow is measured using the fide nition on page 180.
KPI explanation of change We have moved to a five-year TSR measurement period for the Proportion of our total lager volume from markets in which purpose of the TSR KPI as the performance share awards with wehave No.
2 national market share positions three-year TSR measurement periods for the excom have all Lager volumes generated in markets where we have a number one or nowvested and only awards with five-year TSR measurements number two national beer market share position divided by total lager periods remain.
The change has had no signi cant impact on volumes.
Lager volumes are measured as fide ned on page 180. theTSRtrend.
Proportion of group EBITA from developing and emergingeconomies Nonfinancial fide nitions EBITA generated in developing and emerging economies divided by group EBITA before corporate costs.
Corporate Governance Code Developing and emerging economies are as fide ned by the The UK Corporate Governance Code, as adopted by the Financial International Monetary Fund IMF.
Organic growth in lager volumes Direct economic value generated Organic growth in lager volumes is measured by comparing lager Revenue plus interest and dividend receipts, royalty income and volumes in the year with those in the prior year excluding the effects proceeds of sales of assets in accordance with guidance by the of acquisitions and disposals organic information is fide ned on Global Reporting Initiative GRI EC1.
Lager volumes are measured as fide ned on page 180.
Economy segment Group revenue growth organic, constant currency Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the Growth in group revenue compared with the prior year is measured standard 100, brands with a weighted average market price which on a constant currency basis as fide ned on page 180 and excluding fall below an index of 90 form the economy segment.
Normally, all the effects of acquisitions and disposals organic information is brands in this segment will be local brands.
Group revenue is fide ned on page 180. International brewers index Revenue growth in premium brands constant currency The index of international brewers charts the share price progression Growth in revenue from sales of premium brands compared with the of the companys closest peers in the global brewing industry prior year is measured on a constant currency basis as fide ned on Anheuser-Busch InBev, Carlsberg, Heineken and Molson Coors, page 180.
Premium brands are those in the premium segment as relative to 1 April 2010.
The index is weighted relative to the market fide ned on this page.
capitalisation of the brewers as at 1 April 2010.
EBITA growth organic, constant currency Mainstream segment EBITA growth compared with the prior year is measured on a Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the constant currency basis as fide ned on page 180 and excluding standard 100, the mainstream segment is formed of brands with theeffects of acquisitions and disposals organic information is aweighted average market price which fall into the 90-109 band.
Mainstream brands tend to be local.
EBITA margin PET EBITA margin is fide ned on page 180.
PET is short for polyethylene terephthalate, a form of plastic which is used for bottling alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks.
Hectolitres of water used at our breweries per hectolitre oflager produced Premium segment worthmore segment in the USA Water used at our breweries divided by the volume of lager produced.
Taking the leading brand in the most popular pack type as the This includes 100% of all consolidated subsidiaries together with the standard 100, brands with a weighted average market price which equity accounted percentage share of the MillerCoors joint venture.
have an index of 110 form the premium segment.
The premium segment comprises local, regional and global brands.
Fossil fuel emissions from energy used at our breweries perhectolitre of lager produced STRATE Fossil fuel emissions are measured by the total amount of carbon STRATE stands for Share Transactions Totally Electronic, an unlisted dioxide CO2 in kilograms released to the atmosphere by our brewery company owned by JSE Limited and Central Securities Depository operations divided by the volume of lager produced.
The total amount Participants CSDP, which exists to allow share transactions in South of CO2 is the sum of direct emissions produced by the combustion Africa to be settled electronically.
offuel e. g. coal, oil, gas and indirect emissions from the use of electricity and steam.
Emissions are calculated using the internationally recognised WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
This includes 100% of all consolidated businesses together with the equity accounted percentage share of the MillerCoors joint venture.
