Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the consolidated financial statements The group has yet to assess the full impact of the following standards 1.
Accounting policies and amendments to existing standards mandatory for the groups The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2014 or later periods.
thegroups financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless Amendment to IAS 32, Offsetting financial instruments asset and otherwise stated.
liability, is effective from 1 January 2014.
IAS 27 revised, Separate Financial Statements, is effective from a Basis of preparation 1January 2014.
The consolidated financial statements of SABMiller plc have been IAS 28 revised, Associates and Joint Ventures, is effective from prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting 1January 2014.
1 Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted IFRS 9, Financial Instruments, is effective from 1 January 2015. bythe EU, and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements, is effective from reporting under IFRS.
IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, is effective from 1 January 2014.
The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost IFRS 12, Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities is effective from convention, except for the revaluation to fair value of certain financial 1 January 2014. assets and liabilities, and post-retirement assets and liabilities as 1 Not yet endorsed by the EU.
described in the accounting policies below.
The accounts have beenprepared on a going concern basis.
c Signi cant judgements and estimates In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS oftenrequired where the choice of speci c policy, assumption or requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also accounting estimate to be followed could materially affect the requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of reported results or net position of the group, should it later be applying the groups accounting policies.
Actual results could differ determined that a different choice be more appropriate.
Management considers the following to be areas of signi cant b Recent accounting developments judgement and estimation for the group due to greater complexity i New standards, amendments and interpretations of and or particularly subject to the exercise of judgement: existing standards adopted by the group There were no standards, interpretations and amendments adopted i Impairment reviews by the group since 1 April 2012 which had a signi cant impact on the Goodwill arising on business combinations is allocated to the relevant groups consolidated results or financial position.
Impairment reviews in respect of the relevant CGUs are performed at least annually or more regularly if ii New standards, amendments and interpretations of events indicate that this is necessary.
Impairment reviews are based existing standards that are not yet effective and have not on future cash ows discounted using the weighted average cost of been early adopted by the group capital for the relevant country with terminal values calculated The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing applying a long-term growth rate.
The future cash ows which are standards have been published and are mandatory for the groups based on business forecasts, the long-term growth rates and the accounting periods beginning on or after 1 April 2013 or later periods, discount rates used are dependent on management estimates and but which have not been early adopted by the group.
Future events could cause the assumptions used in these impairment reviews to change with a consequent adverse The amendment to IAS 19 will be adopted by the group impact on the results and net position of the group.
Details of the retrospectively from 1 April 2013.
Under the amended standard, the estimates used in the impairment reviews for the year are set out interest charge on retirement bene t liabilities and the expected return innote 10. on plan assets will be replaced by a net interest income or expense on net fide ned bene t assets or liabilities based on high quality ii Taxation corporate bond rates.
The group estimates the adoption of the The group operates in many countries and is subject to taxes amended IAS 19 would have resulted in a reduction in pro t for the innumerous jurisdictions.
Signi cant judgement is required in year ended 31 March 2013 of approximately US$20 million after tax.
determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment is often by The change is not expected to have a material impact on the groups itsnature complex, and cannot be nally determined until a formal net assets.
resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority which may take several years to conclude.
Amounts provided are accrued based The following standards, interpretations and amendments to existing on managements interpretation of country speci c tax laws and the standards mandatory for the groups accounting periods beginning likelihood of settlement.
Actual liabilities could differ from the amount on or after 1 April 2013 are not expected to have a material impact provided which could have a consequent adverse impact on the onthe consolidated results of operations or financial position of results and net position of the group.
iii Pension and post-retirement bene ts Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation, is effective Pension accounting requires certain assumptions to be made in order from 1 July 2012. to value the groups pension and post-retirement obligations in the Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, is balance sheet and to determine the amounts to be recognised in the effective from 1 January 2013. income statement and in other comprehensive income in accordance IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, is effective from 1 January 2013. with IAS 19.
The calculations of these obligations and charges are Annual improvements to IFRS 2009-2011, are effective from based on assumptions determined by management which include 1January 2013. discount rates, salary and pension in ation, healthcare cost in ation, mortality rates and expected long-term rates of return on assets.
Details of the assumptions used are set out in note 31.
The selection of different assumptions could affect the net position of the group and future results.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued On the subsequent disposal or termination of a business, the results 1.
Accounting policies continued of the business are included in the groups results up to the effective iv Property, plant and equipment date of disposal.
The pro t or loss on disposal or termination is The determination of the useful economic life and residual values of calculated after charging the amount of any related goodwill to the property, plant and equipment is subject to management estimation.
extent that it has not previously been taken to the income statement.
The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual values to take account of any changes in circumstances, and any Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or income changes that could affect prospective depreciation charges and and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in assetcarrying values.
preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment v Business combinations of the asset transferred.
On the acquisition of a company or business, a determination of thefair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and the Some of the companys subsidiaries have a local statutory balance useful life of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment sheet date of 31 December.
These are consolidated using acquired is performed, which requires the application of management management prepared information on a basis coterminous with judgement.
Future events could cause the assumptions used by the thecompanys balance sheet date.
group to change which could have a signi cant impact on the results and net position of the group.
ii Associates Associates are entities in which the group has a long-term interest vi Exceptional items and over which the group has directly or indirectly signi cant Exceptional items are expense or income items recorded in a period in uence, where signi cant in uence is the ability to in uence which have been determined by management as being material by the financial and operating policies of the entity.
their size or incidence and are presented separately within the results of the group.
The determination of which items are disclosed as The associate, Distell Group Ltd, has a statutory balance sheet date exceptional items will affect the presentation of pro t measures of 30 June.
In respect of each year ending 31 March, this company including EBITA and adjusted earnings per share, and requires a isincluded based on financial statements drawn up to the previous degree of judgement.
Details relating to exceptional items reported 31December, but taking into account any changes in the subsequent during the year are set out in note 4. period from 1 January to 31 March that would materially affect the results.
All other associates are included on a coterminous basis.
d Segmental reporting Operating segments re ect the management structure of the group iii Joint ventures and the way performance is evaluated and resources allocated based Joint ventures are contractual arrangements which the group has on group revenue and EBITA by the groups chief operating decision entered into with one or more parties to undertake an economic maker, fide ned as the executive directors.
The group is focused activity that is subject to joint control.
Joint control is the contractually geographically, and while not meeting the fide nition of reportable agreed sharing of control over an economic activity, and exists only segments, the group reports separately as segments South Africa: when the strategic, financial and operating decisions relating to the Hotels and Gaming and Corporate as this provides useful additional activity require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing the information.
e Basis of consolidation The groups share of the recognised income and expenses of SABMiller plc the company is a public limited company incorporated associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The method from the date signi cant in uence or joint control commences consolidated financial statements include the financial information to the date it ceases based on present ownership interests.
ofthe subsidiary, associate and joint venture entities owned by thecompany.
The group recognises its share of associates and joint ventures post-tax results as a one line entry before pro t before taxation in i Subsidiaries theincome statement and its share of associates and joint ventures Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the company, where control is equity movements as a one line entry under other comprehensive the power directly or indirectly to govern the financial and operating income in the statement of comprehensive income.
policies of the entity so as to obtain bene t from its activities, regardless of whether this power is actually exercised.
Where the When the groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been companys interest in subsidiaries is less than 100%, the share reduced to nil because the groups share of losses exceeds its attributable to outside shareholders is re ected in non-controlling interest in the associate or joint venture, the group only provides for interests.
Subsidiaries are included in the financial statements from additional losses to the extent that it has incurred legal or constructive the date control commences until the date control ceases.
obligations to fund such losses, or make payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Where the investment in an associate or Control is presumed to exist when the group owns, directly or joint venture is disposed, the investment ceases to be equity accounted.
indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power ofan entity unless, in exceptional circumstances, it can be clearly iv Transactions with non-controlling interests demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute control.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are treated as transactions Control also exists where the group has the ability to direct or with equity owners of the group.
For purchases from non-controlling dominate decision-making in an entity, regardless of whether interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the thispower is actually exercised.
relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity where there is noloss of control.
94 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information ii Transactions and balances 1.
Accounting policies continued The financial statements for each group company have been v Reduction in interests prepared on the basis that transactions in foreign currencies are When the group ceases to have control, joint control or signi cant recorded in their functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at in uence, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair the date of the transaction.
Monetary items denominated in foreign value, with the change in carrying amount recognised in pro t or loss.
currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of balance sheet date with the resultant translation differences being subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, included in operating pro t in the income statement other than those joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, certain amounts previously arising on financial assets and liabilities which are recorded within net recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity finance costs and those which are deferred in equity as qualifying are accounted for as if the group had directly disposed of the related cash ow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
This may mean that certain amounts previously differences on non-monetary assets such as equity investments recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassi ed to pro t classi ed as available for sale assets are included in other orloss.
If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but signi cant iii Overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures in uence is retained, or if the ownership interest in a joint venture is One-off items in the income and cash ow statements of overseas reduced but joint control is retained, only the proportionate share of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures expressed in currencies the carrying amount of the investment and of the amounts previously other than the US dollar are translated to US dollars at the rates of recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassi ed to pro t exchange prevailing on the day of the transaction.
All other items are orloss where appropriate.
translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the relevant reporting period.
Assets and liabilities of these undertakings are f Foreign exchange translated at closing rates of exchange at each balance sheet date.
i Foreign exchange translation Alltranslation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups opening net assets together with differences between income entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic statements translated at average and closing rates are recognised environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
asa separate component of equity.
For these purposes net assets The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars include loans between group companies that form part of the net which is the groups presentational currency.
The key exchange investment, for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur ratesto the US dollar used in preparing the consolidated financial in the foreseeable future.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, any statements were as follows: related exchange differences in equity are reclassi ed to the income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a Average rate foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity Australian dollar AUD 0.97 0.95 and translated at the closing rate.
South African rand ZAR 8.51 7.48 Colombian peso COP 1,796 1,831 iv Hyperin ationary economies Euro 0.78 0.72 In hyperin ationary economies, when translating the results of Czech koruna CZK 19.65 17.65 operations into US dollars, adjustments are made to local currency Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 2.61 2.73 denominated non-monetary assets, liabilities, income statement and Polish zloty PLN 3.26 2.99 equity accounts to re ect the changes in purchasing power.
South Turkish lira TRY 1.80 1.73 Sudan is considered to be a hyperin ationary economy in the year ended 31 March 2013.
The effect of in ation accounting in South Closing rate Sudan for the year ended 31 March 2013 was not material.
Australian dollar AUD 0.96 0.97 South African rand ZAR 9.24 7.67 g Business combinations Colombian peso COP 1,832 1,792 i Subsidiaries Euro 0.78 0.75 The acquisition method is used to account for business Czech koruna CZK 20.07 18.52 combinations.
The identi able net assets including intangibles are Peruvian nuevo sol PEN 2.59 2.67 incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of their fair Polish zloty PLN 3.26 3.13 value from the effective date of control, and the results of subsidiary Turkish lira TRY 1.81 1.78 undertakings acquired during the financial year are included in the groups results from that date.
The average exchange rates have been calculated based on the average of the exchange rates during the relevant year which have On the acquisition of a company or business, fair values re ecting been weighted according to the phasing of revenue of the groups conditions at the date of acquisition are attributed to the identi able businesses.
assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Fair values of these assets and liabilities are determined byreference to market values, where available, or by reference to the current price at which similar assets could be acquired or similar obligations entered into, or by discounting expected future cash ows to present value, using either market rates or the risk-free rates and risk-adjusted expected future cash ows.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Intangible assets with nite lives are amortised over their estimated 1.
Accounting policies continued useful economic lives, and only tested for impairment where there The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the isatriggering event.
The group regularly reviews all of its amortisation assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or rates and residual values to take account of any changes in assumed at the date of the acquisition, and also includes the groups circumstances.
The directors assessment of the useful life of estimate of the fair value of any deferred consideration payable.
intangible assets is based on the nature of the asset acquired, the Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Where the durability of the products to which the asset attaches and the business combination is achieved in stages and results in a change in expected future impact of competition on the business.
control, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the i Brands acquisition date through pro t or loss.
Where the business Brands are recognised as an intangible asset where the brand has combination agreement provides for an adjustment to the cost that along-term value.
Acquired brands are only recognised where title iscontingent on future events, the consideration transferred includes isclear or the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent business and the earnings attributable to it are separately identi able.
On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree Acquired brands are amortised.
In respect of brands currently held either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate the amortisation period is 10 to 40 years, being the period for which share of the acquirees net assets.
the group has exclusive rights to those brands, up to a maximum of 40 years.
ii Associates and joint ventures On acquisition the investment in associates and joint ventures is ii Contract brewing and other licences recognised as part recorded initially at cost.
Subsequently the carrying amount is ofa business combination increased or decreased to recognise the groups share of the Contractual arrangements for contract brewing and competitor associates and joint ventures income and expenses after the licensing arrangements are recognised as an intangible asset at dateofacquisition.
afairvalue representing the remaining contractual period with an assumption about the expectation that such a contract will be Fair values re ecting conditions at the date of acquisition are renewed, together with a valuation of this extension.
attributed to the groups share of identi able assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
The Acquired licences or contracts are amortised.
In respect of licences consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets or contracts currently held, the amortisation period is the period for given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed which the group has exclusive rights to these assets or income atthe date of the acquisition, and also includes the groups estimate streams.
of the fair value of any deferred consideration payable.
iii Customer lists and distributor relationships recognised The date signi cant in uence or joint control commences is not aspart of a business combination necessarily the same as the closing date or any other date named The fair value of businesses acquired may include customer lists and inthe contract.
These are recognised as intangible assets and are calculated by discounting the future revenue stream iii Goodwill attributable to these lists or relationships.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest Acquired customer lists or distributor relationships are amortised.
in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous Inrespect of contracts currently held, the amortisation period is the equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identi able period for which the group has the bene t of these assets.
assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
Where the fair value of the iv Computer software groups share of identi able net assets acquired exceeds the fair value Where computer software is not an integral part of a related item of the consideration, the difference is recognised immediately in the ofproperty, plant and equipment, the software is capitalised as an income statement.
Goodwill is stated at cost less impairment losses and is reviewed Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis forimpairment on an annual basis.
Any impairment identi ed is ofthe costs incurred to acquire and bring them to use.
Direct costs recognised immediately in the income statement and is not reversed.
associated with the production of identi able and unique internally generated software products controlled by the group that will The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of associates and joint probably generate economic bene ts exceeding costs beyond one ventures is included in the carrying value of the investment in the year are capitalised.
Direct costs include software development associate or joint venture.
employment costs including those of contractors used, capitalised interest and an appropriate portion of overheads.
Capitalised h Intangible assets computer software, licence and development costs are amortised Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation over their useful economic lives of between three and eight years.
ona straight-line basis if applicable and impairment losses.
Cost is usually determined as the amount paid by the group, unless the asset Internally generated costs associated with maintaining computer has been acquired as part of a business combination.
Intangible software programmes are expensed as incurred.
assets acquired as part of a business combination are recognised attheir fair value at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation is included within net operating expenses in the income statement.
Internally generated intangibles are not recognised except for computer software and applied development costs referred to under computer software and research and development below.
96 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information iv Depreciation 1.
Accounting policies continued No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets in the course v Research and development of construction.
In respect of all other property, plant and equipment, Research and general development expenditure is written off in the depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates calculated to period in which it is incurred.
write off the cost, less the estimated residual value, of each asset over its expected useful life as follows: Certain applied development costs are only capitalised as internally generated intangible assets where there is a clearly fide ned project, Freehold buildings 20 50 years separately identi able expenditure, an outcome assessed with Leasehold buildings Shorter of the lease term reasonable certainty in terms of feasibility and commerciality, or50years expected revenues exceed expected costs and the group has the Plant, vehicles and systems 2 30 years resources to complete the task.
Such assets are amortised on a Returnable containers straight-line basis over their useful lives once the project is complete.
non-returnable containers are recorded as inventory 1 14 years i Property, plant and equipment Assets held under finance leases Lowe r of the lease term or Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated lifeofthe asset depreciation and any impairment losses.
The group regularly reviews all of its depreciation rates and residual Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the values to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When acquisition of the assets.
Subsequent costs are included in the setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the group takes assets carrying value or recognised as a separate asset as into account are the expected rate of technological developments, appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic bene ts expected market requirements for the equipment and the intensity associated with the speci c asset will ow to the group and the cost atwhich the assets are expected to be used.
Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in The pro t or loss on the disposal of an asset is the difference whichthey are incurred.
between the disposal proceeds and the net book amount.
i Assets in the course of construction v Capitalisation of borrowing costs Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost less any Financing costs incurred, before tax, on major capital projects during impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and for qualifying the period of development or construction that necessarily take a assets certain borrowing costs as determined below.
When these substantial period of time to be developed for their intended use, assets are ready for their intended use, they are transferred into the arecapitalised up to the time of completion of the project.
At this point, depreciation commences on the same basis as on other property, plant and equipment.
j Advance payments made to customers principally hotels, restaurants, bars and clubs ii Assets held under finance leases Advance payments made to customers are conditional on the Assets held under finance leases which result in the group bearing achievement of contracted sales targets or marketing commitments.
substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are The group records such payments as prepayments initially at fair capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Finance lease assets value and amortises them in the income statement over the relevant are initially recognised at an amount equal to the lower of their fair period to which the customer commitment is made typically three to value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at five years.
These prepayments are recorded net of any impairment inception of the lease, then depreciated over the lower of the lease losses.
term or their useful lives.
The capital element of future obligations under the leases is included as a liability in the balance sheet Where there is a volume target the amortisation of the advance is classi ed, as appropriate, as a current or non-current liability.
The included in sales discounts as a reduction to revenue and where there interest element of the lease obligations is charged to the income are speci c marketing activities commitments the amortisation is statement over the period of the lease term to re ect a constant included as an operating expense.
The amounts capitalised are rateof interest on the remaining balance of the obligation for each reassessed annually for achievement of targets and are impaired financial period.
where there is objective evidence that the targets will not be achieved.
iii Returnable containers Assets held at customer premises are included within property, plant Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, and equipment and are depreciated in line with group policies on plant and equipment at cost net of accumulated depreciation less similar assets.
k Inventories Depreciation of returnable bottles and containers is recorded to write Inventories are stated at the lower of cost incurred in bringing each the containers off over the course of their economic life.
This is product to its present location and condition, and net realisable value, typically undertaken in a two stage process: as follows: The excess over deposit value is written down over a period of Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale: Purchase cost 1to10 years.
net of discounts and rebates on a first-in first-out basis FIFO.
Provisions are made against the deposit values for breakages and Finished goods and work in progress: Raw material cost plus direct losses in trade together with a design obsolescence provision held costs and a proportion of manufacturing overhead expenses on a to write off the deposit value over the expected container design FIFO basis.
period which is a period of no more than 14 years from the inception of a container design.
This period is shortened where Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further appropriate by reference to market dynamics and the ability of the costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Costs of entity to use containers for different brands.
inventories include the transfer from equity of any gains or losses on matured qualifying cash ow hedges of purchases of raw materials.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Derivative financial assets and liabilities are analysed between current 1.
Accounting policies continued and non-current assets and liabilities on the face of the balance l Financial assets and financial liabilities sheet, depending on when they are expected to mature.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs, except in the For derivatives that have not been designated to a hedging case of those classi ed at fair value through pro t or loss.
For those relationship, all fair value movements are recognised immediately in financial instruments that are not subsequently held at fair value, the the income statement.
See note x for the groups accounting policy group assesses whether there is any objective evidence of on hedge accounting.
impairment at each balance sheet date.
ii Loans and receivables Financial assets are recognised when the group has rights or other Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or access to economic bene ts.
Such assets consist of cash, equity determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
They instruments, a contractual right to receive cash or another financial arise when the group provides money, goods or services directly to a asset, or a contractual right to exchange financial instruments with debtor with no intention of trading the receivable.
They are included in another entity on potentially favourable terms.
Financial assets are current assets, except for maturities of greater than 12 months after derecognised when the right to receive cash ows from the asset the balance sheet date which are classi ed as non-current assets.
have expired or have been transferred and the group has transferred Loans and receivables are initially recognised at fair value including substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
originating fees and transaction costs, and subsequently measured atamortised cost using the effective interest method less provision Financial liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation to for impairment.
Loans and receivables include trade receivables, transfer bene ts and that obligation is a contractual liability to deliver amounts owed by associates, amounts owed by joint ventures cash or another financial asset or to exchange financial instruments trade, accrued income and cash and cash equivalents.
with another entity on potentially unfavourable terms.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when they are extinguished, that is a.
Trade receivables discharged, cancelled or expired.
Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision If a legally enforceable right exists to set off recognised amounts of forimpairment.
financial assets and liabilities, which are in determinable monetary amounts, and there is the intention to settle net, the relevant financial A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when assets and liabilities are offset.
there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the terms of the receivables.
The amount Interest costs are charged to the income statement in the year in of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying value which they accrue.
Premiums or discounts arising from the difference and the present value of the estimated future cash ows discounted between the net proceeds of financial instruments purchased or at the original effective interest rate.
This provision is recognised in the issued and the amounts receivable or repayable at maturity are income statement.
included in the effective interest calculation and taken to net finance costs over the life of the instrument.
Cash and cash equivalents In the consolidated balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents There are four categories of financial assets and financial liabilities.
includes cash in hand, bank deposits repayable on demand and other These are described as follows: short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
In the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and i Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value cash equivalents also includes bank overdrafts which are shown through pro t or loss within borrowings in current liabilities on the balance sheet.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss include derivative assets and derivative liabilities not designated iii Available for sale investments as effective hedging instruments.
Available for sale investments are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated in this category or not classi ed as financial All gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss, or loans and receivables.
assets or financial liabilities within this category are recognised in Investments in this category are included in non-current assets unless theincome statement.
management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
They are initially recognised at fair value a.
Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities plus transaction costs and are subsequently remeasured at fair value Derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are financial and tested for impairment.
Gains and losses arising from changes in instruments whose value changes in response to an underlying fair value including any related foreign exchange movements are variable, require little or no initial investment and are settled in recognised in other comprehensive income.
impairment of available for sale investments, any gains or losses in other comprehensive income are reclassi ed to the income statement.
These include derivatives embedded in host contracts.
Such embedded derivatives need not be accounted for separately if Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the date on thehost contract is already fair valued: if it is not considered as a which the group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments derivative if it was freestanding: or if it can be demonstrated that are derecognised when the rights to receive cash ows from the itisclosely related to the host contract.
There are certain currency investments have expired or have been transferred and the group has exemptions which the group has applied to these rules which limit the transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
need to account for certain potential embedded foreign exchange derivatives.
These are: if a contract is denominated in the functional currency of either party: where that currency is commonly used in international trade of the good traded: or if it is commonly used for local transactions in an economic environment.
98 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Accounting policies continued amortisation are reviewed for impairment if circumstances or iv Financial liabilities held at amortised cost eventschange to indicate that the carrying value may not be Financial liabilities held at amortised cost include trade payables, fullyrecoverable.
accruals, amounts owed to associates, amounts owed to joint ventures trade, other payables and borrowings.
n Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale Non-current assets and all assets and liabilities classi ed as held for a.
Trade payables sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently costs to sell.
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade payables are analysed between current and non-current Such assets are classi ed as held for resale if their carrying amount liabilities on the face of the balance sheet, depending on when the will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through obligation to settle will be realised.
This condition is regarded as met only when a sale is highly probable, the asset or disposal group is available for immediate b.
Borrowings sale in its present condition and when management is committed to Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction the sale which is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed costs and are subsequently stated at amortised cost and include sale within one year from date of classi cation.
accrued interest and prepaid interest.
Borrowings are classi ed as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer o Provisions settlement of the liability for at least 12 months from the balance sheet Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation, whether date.
Borrowings classi ed as hedged items are subject to hedge legal or constructive, as a result of a past event for which it is accounting requirements see note x.
Bank overdrafts are shown probable that a transfer of economic bene ts will be required to settle within borrowings in current liabilities and are included within cash the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of and cash equivalents on the face of the cash ow statement as they the obligation.
Such provisions are calculated on a discounted basis form an integral part of the groups cash management.
where the effect is material to the original undiscounted provision.
The carrying amount of the provision increases in each period to re ect m Impairment the passage of time and the unwinding of the discount and the This policy covers all assets except inventories see note k, financial movement is recognised in the income statement within net assets see note l, non-current assets classi ed as held for sale see nancecosts.
note n, and deferred tax assets see note u.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the carrying value employee termination payments.
Provisions are not recognised for ofthe non-current asset to its recoverable amount, being the higher future operating losses.
Provisions are recognised for onerous of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The fair value less contracts where the unavoidable cost exceeds the expected bene t. costs to sell is considered to be the amount that could be obtained on disposal of the asset.
Value in use is determined by discounting p Share capital the future post-tax cash ows generated from continuing use of the Ordinary shares are classi ed as equity.
Incremental costs directly cash generating unit CGU using a post-tax discount rate, as this attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity closely approximates to applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where a potential impairment is identi ed using post-tax cash ows and post-tax discount rates, the impairment review is q Investments in own shares treasury and shares held by reperformed on a pre-tax basis in order to determine the impairment employee bene t trusts loss to be recorded.
Shares held by employee share ownership plans, employee bene t trusts and in treasury are treated as a deduction from equity until the Where the asset does not generate cash ows that are independent shares are cancelled, reissued, or disposed.
from the cash ows of other assets, the group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
For the Purchases of such shares are classi ed in the cash ow statement as purpose of conducting impairment reviews, CGUs are considered to a purchase of own shares for share trusts or purchase of own shares be groups of assets that have separately identi able cash ows.
They for treasury within net cash from nancing activities.
also include those assets and liabilities directly involved in producing the income and a suitable proportion of those used to produce more Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any than one income stream.
consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs and related tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the An impairment loss is held rstly against any speci cally impaired companys equity shareholders.
Where an impairment is recognised against a CGU, the impairment is first taken against goodwill balances and if there is a r Revenue recognition remaining loss it is set against the remaining intangible and tangible i Sale of goods and services assets on a pro-rata basis.
Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or receivable for goods and services provided to third parties and is Should circumstances or events change and give rise to a reversal of recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are substantially a previous impairment loss, the reversal is recognised in the income transferred.
statement in the period in which it occurs and the carrying value of the asset is increased.
The increase in the carrying value of the asset The group presents revenue gross of excise duties because unlike is restricted to the amount that it would have been had the original value added tax, excise is not directly related to the value of sales.
It is impairment not occurred.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill not generally recognised as a separate item on invoices, increases in are irreversible.
excise are not always directly passed on to customers, and the group cannot reclaim the excise where customers do not pay for product received.
The group therefore considers excise as a cost to the group and re ects it as a production cost.
Consequently, any excise that is recovered in the sale price is included in revenue.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Deferred tax is provided in full using the liability method, in respect of 1.
Accounting policies continued all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and Revenue excludes value added tax.
It is stated net of price discounts, liabilities and their carrying values in the consolidated financial promotional discounts, settlement discounts and after an appropriate statements, except where the temporary difference arises from amount has been provided to cover the sales value of credit notes yet goodwill in the case of deferred tax liabilities or from the initial to be issued that relate to the current and prior periods.
recognition other than a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither accounting nor taxable The same recognition criteria also apply to the sale of by-products pro t. and waste such as spent grain, malt dust and yeast with the exception that these are included within other income.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised where the carrying value of anasset is greater than its tax base, or where the carrying value of ii Interest income aliability is less than its tax base.
Deferred tax is recognised in full Interest income is recognised on an accruals basis using the effective ontemporary differences arising from investment in subsidiaries, interest method.
associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is When a receivable is impaired the group reduces the carrying amount probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the to its recoverable amount by discounting the estimated future cash foreseeable future.
This includes taxation in respect of the retained ows at the original effective interest rate, and continuing to unwind earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the the discount as interest income.
balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable or abinding agreement to distribute past earnings in future periods has iii Royalty income been entered into by the subsidiary.
Deferred income tax is also Royalty income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance recognised in respect of the unremitted retained earnings of overseas with the relevant agreements and is included in other income.
associates and joint ventures as the group is not able to determine when such earnings will be remitted and when such additional tax iv Dividend income such as withholding taxes might be payable.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it is s Operating leases probable that future taxable pro t will be available against which the Rentals paid and incentives received on operating leases are charged temporary differences including carried forward tax losses can be or credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates expected to apply in the t Exceptional items periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based Where certain expense or income items recorded in a period are on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively material by their size or incidence, the group re ects such items as enacted at balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a exceptional items within a separate line on the income statement non-discounted basis.
except for those exceptional items that relate to associates, joint ventures, net finance costs and tax.
Associates and joint ventures v Dividend distributions net finance costs and tax exceptional items are only referred to in Dividend distributions to equity holders of the parent are recognised thenotes to the consolidated financial statements.
as a liability in the groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim Exceptional items are also summarised in the segmental analyses, dividends are recognised when paid.
Dividends declared after the excluding those that relate to net finance costs and tax.
balance sheet date are not recognised, as there is no present obligation at the balance sheet date.
The group presents alternative earnings per share calculations on a headline and adjusted basis.
The adjusted earnings per share gure w Employee bene ts excludes the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding i Wages and salaries computer software, certain non-recurring items and post-tax Wages and salaries for current employees are recognised in the exceptional items in order to present an additional measure of income statement as the employees services are rendered.
performance for the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Headline earnings per share is calculated in accordance ii Vacation and long-term service awards costs with the South African Circular 3 2012 entitled Headline Earnings The group recognises a liability and an expense for accrued vacation which forms part of the listing requirements for the JSE Ltd JSE.
pay when such bene ts are earned and not when these bene ts arepaid.
u Taxation The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
The group also recognises a liability and an expense for long-term Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it service awards where cash is paid to the employee at certain relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly milestone dates in a career with the group.
Such accruals are in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive appropriately discounted to re ect the future payment dates at income or directly in equity, respectively.
discount rates determined by reference to local high-quality corporatebonds.
Current tax expense is based on the results for the period as adjusted for items that are not taxable or not deductible.
The groups liability for current taxation is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
100 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and 1.
Accounting policies continued changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise iii Pro t-sharing and bonus plans outside of the income statement and are charged or credited to The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they pro t-sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration arise, with the exception of gains or losses arising from changes in thepro t attributable to the companys shareholders after the bene ts regarding past services, which are recognised in the certainadjustments.
The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income orwhere there is a past practice that has created a constructive statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on obligation.
At a mid-year point an accrual is maintained for the the employees remaining in service for a speci ed period of time the appropriate proportion of the expected bonuses which would vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on become payable at the year end.
astraight-line basis over the vesting period.
iv Share-based compensation The contributions to fide ned contribution plans are recognised as The group operates a variety of equity-settled share-based anexpense as the costs become payable.
The contributions are compensation plans and a cash-settled share-based recognised as employee bene t expense when they are due.
contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
The equity-settled plans comprise share option plans with and without market performance conditions attached, performance share award vi Other post-employment obligations plans with market conditions attached and awards related to the Some group companies provide post-retirement healthcare bene ts employee element of the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment to qualifying employees.
The expected costs of these bene ts are BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
An expense is recognised to spread assessed in accordance with the advice of quali ed actuaries and the fair value of each award granted after 7November 2002 over the contributions are made to the relevant funds over the expected vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate service lives of the employees entitled to those funds.
Actuarial gains ofthe share awards that will eventually vest.
A corresponding and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in adjustment is made to equity over the remaining vesting period.
actuarial assumptions are recognised in full as they arise outside the Theestimate of the level of vesting is reviewed at least annually, with income statement and are charged or credited to equity in other any impact on the cumulative charge being recognised immediately.
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
These In addition the group has granted an equity-settled share-based obligations are valued annually by independent quali ed actuaries.
payment to retailers in relation to the retailer element of the BBBEE scheme.
A one-off charge has been recognised based on the fair vii Terminat ion bene ts value at the grant date with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Termination bene ts are payable when employment is terminated The charge will not be adjusted in the future.
before the normal retirement date, or whenever an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these bene ts.
The group The charges are based on the fair value of the awards as at the date recognises termination bene ts when it is demonstrably committed of grant, as calculated by various binomial model calculations and toterminating the employment of current employees according to a Monte Carlo simulations.
detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal, or providing termination bene ts as a result of an offer made to encourage The charges are not reversed if the options and awards are not voluntary redundancy.
Bene ts falling due more than 12 months exercised because the market value of the shares is lower than afterbalance sheet date are discounted to present value in a similar theoption price at the date of grant.
manner to all long-term employee bene ts.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction x Derivative financial instruments hedge accounting costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through pro t when the options are exercised.
orloss include all derivative financial instruments.
The derivative instruments used by the group, which are used solely for hedging For the cash-settled plan a liability is recognised at fair value in the purposes i. e. to offset foreign exchange, commodity price and balance sheet over the vesting period with a corresponding charge interest rate risks, comprise interest rate swaps, cross currency tothe income statement.
The liability is remeasured at each reporting swaps, forward foreign exchange contracts, commodity contracts date, on an actuarial basis using the analytic method, to re ect the and other speci c instruments as necessary under the approval of the revised fair value and to adjust for changes in assumptions such as board.
Such derivative instruments are used to alter the risk pro le of leavers.
Changes in the fair value of the liability are recognised in the an existing underlying exposure of the group in line with the groups income statement.
Actual settlement of the liability will be at its risk management policies.
The group also has derivatives embedded intrinsic value with the difference recognised in the income statement.
in other contracts primarily cross border foreign currency supply contracts for raw materials.
v Pension obligations The group has both fide ned bene t and fide ned contribution plans.
Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of fide ned value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends bene t pension plans is the present value of the fide ned bene t on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, if so, the nature of the hedging relationship.
together with adjustments for unrecognised past service costs.
Thede ned bene t obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value ofthe fide ned bene t obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash out ows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the bene ts will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 101 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Gains or losses on hedging instruments that are regarded as highly 1.
Accounting policies continued effective are recognised in other comprehensive income.
These In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to largely offset foreign currency gains or losses arising on the document at inception, the relationship between the hedged item and translation of net investments that are recorded in equity, in the the hedging instrument as well as its risk management objectives and foreign currency translation reserve.
The ineffective portion of gains strategy for undertaking hedging transactions.
The group is also orlosses on hedging instruments is recognised immediately in the required to document and demonstrate that the relationship between income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are only the hedged item and the hedging instrument will be highly effective.
reclassi ed to the income statement upon disposal of the net This effectiveness test is reperformed at each period end to ensure investment.
that the hedge has remained and will continue to remain highly effective.
Where a derivative ceases to meet the criteria of being a hedging instrument or the underlying exposure which it is hedging is sold, The group designates certain derivatives as either: hedges of the fair matures or is extinguished, hedge accounting is discontinued and value of recognised assets or liabilities or a rm commitment fair amounts previously recorded in equity are reclassi ed to the income value hedge : hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or statement.
A similar treatment is applied where the hedge is of a commitments cash ow hedge : or hedges of net investments in future transaction and that transaction is no longer likely to occur.
foreign operations net investment hedge.
When the hedge is discontinued due to ineffectiveness, hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
i Fair value hedges Fair value hedges comprise derivative financial instruments Certain derivative instruments, while providing effective economic designated in a hedging relationship to manage the groups interest hedges under the groups policies, are not designated as hedges.
rate risk and foreign exchange risk to which the fair value of certain Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not assets and liabilities are exposed.
Changes in the fair value of the qualify or have not been designated as hedges are recognised derivative offset the relevant changes in the fair value of the underlying immediately in the income statement.
The group does not hold hedged item attributable to the hedged risk in the income statement orissue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
y Deposits by customers Gains or losses on fair value hedges that are regarded as highly Returnable containers in circulation are recorded within property, effective are recorded in the income statement together with the plant and equipment and a corresponding liability is recorded in gainor loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk.
respect of the obligation to repay the customers deposits.
Deposits paid by customers for branded returnable containers are re ected in ii Cash ow hedges the balance sheet within current liabilities.
Any estimated liability that Cash ow hedges comprise derivative financial instruments may arise in respect of deposits for unbranded containers is shown designated in a hedging relationship to manage currency and interest inprovisions.
rate risk to which the cash ows of certain liabilities are exposed.
Theeffective portion of changes in the fair value of the derivative that z Earnings per share is designated and quali es for hedge accounting is recognised in Basic earnings per share represents the pro t on ordinary activities other comprehensive income.
The ineffective portion is recognised after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity entity, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in are reclassi ed to the income statement in the period in which the issue during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary hedged item affects pro t or loss.
However, where a forecasted shares held in the groups employee bene t trusts and in treasury transaction results in a nonfinancial asset or liability, the accumulated during the year.
fair value movements previously deferred in equity are included in the initial cost of the asset or liability.
Diluted earnings per share represents the pro t on ordinary activities after taxation attributable to the equity shareholders of the parent, iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue Hedges of net investments in foreign operations comprise either during the year, less the weighted average number of ordinary shares foreign currency borrowings or derivatives typically forward held in the groups employee bene t trusts and in treasury during the exchangecontracts and cross currency swaps designated in a year, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting hedging relationship.
from share options and other potential ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
102 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.
Segmental analysis Operating segments re ect the management structure of the group and the way performance is evaluated and resources allocated based ongroup revenue and EBITA by the groups chief operating decision maker, fide ned as the executive directors.
The group is focused geographically and, while not meeting the fide nition of reportable segments, the group reports separately as segments South Africa: Hotelsand Gaming and Corporate as this provides useful additional information.
The segmental information presented below includes the reconciliation of GAAP measures presented on the face of the income statement tonon-GAAP measures which are used by management to analyse the groups performance.
Income statement Group Group revenue EBITA revenue EBITA 2013 2013 2012 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 7,821 2,112 7,158 1,865 Europe 5,767 784 5,482 836 North America 5,355 771 5,250 756 Africa 3,853 838 3,686 743 Asia Paci c 5,685 855 3,510 321 South Africa: 6,006 1,263 6,302 1,303 Beverages 5,540 1,129 5,815 1,168 Hotels and Gaming 466 134 487 135 Corporate 202 190 34,487 6,421 31,388 5,634 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software group and share of associates and joint ventures 483 264 Exceptional items in operating pro t group and share of associates and joint ventures 205 1,015 Net finance costs group and share of associates and joint ventures excluding exceptional items 779 570 Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 164 170 Share of associates and joint ventures non-controlling interests 78 42 Pro t before taxation 4,712 5,603 Group revenue including associates and joint ventures With the exception of South Africa: Hotels and Gaming, all reportable segments derive their revenues from the sale of beverages.
Revenues are derived from a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed, with no customers being individually material.
Segmental analysis continued Operating pro t The following table provides a reconciliation of operating pro t to operating pro t before exceptional items.
Operating Operating pro t before pro t before Operating Exceptional exceptional Operating Exceptional exceptional pro t items items pro t items items 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,920 63 1,983 1,617 119 1,736 Europe 588 64 652 1,939 1,135 804 North America 7 7 Africa 518 79 439 584 162 422 Asia Paci c 358 104 462 54 70 124 South Africa: Beverages 1,040 22 1,062 1,050 41 1,091 Corporate 228 26 202 231 41 190 4,203 200 4,403 5,013 1,026 3,987 EBITA segment result This comprises operating pro t before exceptional items, amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software and includes the groups share of associates and joint ventures operating pro t on a similar basis.
The following table provides a reconciliation of operating pro t before exceptional items to EBITA.
Amortisation Amortisation of intangible of intangible assets assets Share of excluding Share of excluding associates computer associates computer and joint software and joint software Operating ventures group and Operating ventures group and pro t operating share of pro t operating share of before pro t before associates before pro t before associates exceptional exceptional and joint exceptional exceptional and joint items items ventures EBITA items items ventures EBITA 2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 1,983 129 2,112 1,736 129 1,865 Europe 652 76 56 784 804 11 21 836 North America 7 721 43 771 711 45 756 Africa 439 392 7 838 422 318 3 743 Asia Paci c 462 156 237 855 124 132 65 321 South Africa: 1,062 190 11 1,263 1,091 211 1 1,303 Beverages 1,062 67 1,129 1,091 77 1,168 Hotels and Gaming 123 11 134 134 1 135 Corporate 202 202 190 190 4,403 1,535 483 6,421 3,987 1,383 264 5,634 The groups share of associates and joint ventures operating pro t is reconciled to the share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures in the income statement as follows.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Share of associates and joint ventures operating pro t before exceptional items 1,535 1,383 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items in operating pro t 5 11 Share of associates and joint ventures net finance costs 44 30 Share of associates and joint ventures taxation 164 170 Share of associates and joint ventures non-controlling interests 78 42 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,244 1,152 104 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.
Segmental analysis continued EBITDA The following table provides a reconciliation of EBITDA the net cash generated from operations before working capital movements to adjusted EBITDA.
A reconciliation of pro t for the year for the group to EBITDA after cash exceptional items for the group can be found in note 27a.
Dividends Dividends Cash received Cash received exceptional from Adjusted exceptional from Adjusted EBITDA items MillerCoors EBITDA EBITDA items MillerCoors EBITDA 2013 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 2,382 61 2,443 2,068 112 2,180 Europe 884 61 945 1,067 58 1,125 North America 29 886 915 22 896 918 Africa 583 583 564 13 577 Asia Paci c 754 34 788 159 88 247 South Africa: Beverages 1,257 10 1,267 1,267 13 1,280 Corporate 131 25 106 168 24 144 5,758 191 886 6,835 4,979 308 896 6,183 Other segmental information Capital Capital expenditure expenditure excluding excluding investment Investment investment Investment 2 1 2 activity activity Total activity activity Total 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Latin America 528 528 522 34 488 Europe 216 216 324 17 341 North America 272 272 288 288 Africa 391 29 420 398 82 316 Asia Paci c 88 78 10 69 10,931 11,000 South Africa: 228 228 284 284 Beverages 228 228 284 284 Hotels and Gaming Corporate 28 5 23 42 1 43 1,479 218 1,697 1,639 11,121 12,760 1 Capital expenditure includes additions of intangible assets excluding goodwill and property, plant and equipment.
2 Investment activity includes acquisitions and disposals of businesses, net investments in associates and joint ventures, purchases of shares in non-controlling interests and purchases and disposals of available for sale investments.
Depreciation and amortisation 2013 2012 US$m US$m Latin America 467 445 Europe 226 298 Africa 104 128 Asia Paci c 316 117 South Africa: Beverages 172 168 Corporate 32 26 1,317 1,182 Depreciation and amortisation exclude amounts relating to impairment charges.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 105 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segmental analysis continued Geographical information The UK is the parent companys country of domicile.
Those countries which account for more than 10% of the groups total revenue and or non-current assets are considered individually material and are reported separately below.
Non-current assets by location exclude amounts relating to derivative financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
106 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.
Net operating expenses 2013 2012 US$m US$m Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 5,043 5,049 Changes in inventories of nished goods and work in progress 93 18 Raw materials and consumables used 4,950 5,031 Excise duties 5,755 5,047 Employee costs see note 6a 2,693 2,502 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 867 909 Containers 226 237 Other 641 672 Net pro t on disposal of businesses 79 1,242 Pro t on disposal of investment in associate 103 Gain on dilution of investment in associate 4 Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint venture on acquisition 66 Loss pro t on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 15 Amortisation of intangible assets 450 273 Intangible assets excluding computer software 394 218 Computer software 56 55 Other expenses 4,634 4,906 Selling, marketing and distribution costs 2,582 2,562 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 333 325 Impairment of goodwill 11 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 39 Impairment of trade and other receivables 23 25 Operating lease rentals land and buildings 64 60 Operating lease rentals plant, vehicles and systems 95 84 Research and development expenditure 4 7 Acquisition-related costs 109 Other operating expenses 1,483 1,734 Total net operating expenses by nature 19,372 17,260 Other income 362 513 Revenue received from royalties 55 43 Dividends received from investments 1 1 Other operating income 306 469 Net operating expenses 19,010 16,747 1 Excise duties of US$5,755 million 2012: US$5,047 million have been incurred during the year as follows: Latin America US$2,019 million 2012: US$1,843 million : Europe US$995 million 2012: US$1,204 million : North America US$4 million 2012: US$3 million : Africa US$418 million 2012: US$408 million : Asia Paci c US$1,369 million 2012: US$626 million and South Africa US$950 million 2012: US$963 million.
The groups share of MillerCoors excise duties incurred during the year was US$695 million 2012: US$703 million.
Foreign exchange differences recognised in the pro t for the year, except for those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value under IAS 39, were a loss of US$14 million 2012: US$27 million.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Net operating expenses continued The following fees were paid to a number of different accounting rms as auditors of various parts of the group.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Group auditors Fees payable to the companys auditor and its associates for the audit of parent company and consolidated financial statements 2 3 Fees payable to companys auditor and its associates for other services: The audit of the companys subsidiaries 9 8 Total audit fees payable to the companys auditor 11 11 Audit-related assurance services 1 2 Taxation compliance services 1 1 Taxation advisory services 1 6 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 3 Other non-audit services 1 Services relating to information technology 1 4 Other 1 2 Total fees payable to the companys auditor 16 29 Other audit rms Fees payable to other auditor rms for: The audit of the companys subsidiaries 1 1 Taxation advisory services 3 2 Services relating to corporate finance transactions 1 Internal audit services 1 1 Other non-audit services 1 Services relating to information technology 12 8 Other 12 7 Total fees payable to other audit rms 29 20 1 Principally relating to the business capability programme.
Exceptional items 2013 2012 US$m US$m Exceptional items included in operating pro t: Net pro t on disposal of businesses 79 1,248 Business capability programme costs 141 235 Integration and restructuring costs 91 60 Impairments 30 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme charges 17 29 Pro t on disposal of investment in associate 103 Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint venture on acquisition 66 Litigation 42 Transaction-related costs 109 Net exceptional losses gains included within operating pro t 200 1,026 Exceptional items included in net finance costs: Litigation-related finance income 4 Transaction-related net finance costs 26 Net exceptional losses included within net finance costs 22 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items: Impairments 5 35 Pro ts on transactions in associates 46 Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional losses gains 5 11 Non-controlling interests share of associates and joint ventures exceptional losses gains 2 Groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional losses gains 3 11 Net taxation credits relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items 20 24 108 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4.
Exceptional items continued Exceptional items included in operating pro t Net pro t on disposal of businesses During 2013 an additional pro t of US$79 million was realised in Africa in relation to the disposal in the prior year of the groups Angolan operations in exchange for a 27.5% interest in BIH Angola, following the successful resolution of certain matters leading to the release of provisions.
In 2012 a pro t of US$1,195 million arose in Europe on the disposal of the groups Russian and Ukrainian businesses in exchange for a 24% interest in the enlarged Anadolu Efes group: a pro t of US$67 million arose in Africa on the disposal of the groups Angolan operations in exchange for a 27.5% interest in BIH Angola: partially offset by a loss of US$14 million incurred in Europe primarily in relation to the recycling ofthe foreign currency translation reserve on the disposal of the distribution business in Italy.
Business capability programme costs The business capability programme will streamline finance, human resources and procurement activities through the deployment of global systems and introduce common sales, distribution and supply chain management systems.
Costs of US$141 million have been incurred in theyear 2012: US$235 million.
Integration and restructuring costs During 2013 US$74 million of integration and restructuring costs were incurred in Asia Paci c following the Fosters and the Paci c Beverages acquisitions, including the closure of certain beverage lines, and US$17 million of restructuring costs were incurred in South Africa: Beverages.
In 2012 US$34 million of restructuring costs were incurred in Latin America, principally in Ecuador, Peru and the regional of ce, and US$26million of integration costs were incurred in Asia Paci c following the Fosters and Paci c Beverages acquisitions.
Impairments During 2013 a US$30 million 2012: US$nil impairment charge was incurred in respect of the Vietnam business in Asia Paci c. The impairment charge comprised US$11 million against goodwill and US$19 million against property, plant and equipment.
Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme charges US$17 million 2012: US$29 million of charges have been incurred in relation to the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
This represents the continuing IFRS 2 share-based payment charge in respect of the employee element of thescheme.
Pro t on disposal of investment in associate In 2012 a pro t of US$103 million was realised on the disposal of the groups investment in its associate, Kenya Breweries Ltd, in Africa.
Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint venture on acquisition In 2012 the group acquired the remaining 50% interest which it did not already own in Paci c Beverages from Coca-Cola Amatil Limited.
Thisresulted in a US$66 million gain arising on the remeasurement to fair value of the groups existing interest.
Litigation In 2012 in Europe a US$42 million anti-trust ne paid by Grolsch prior to its acquisition by SABMiller plc was annulled by the EU General Court and the payment refunded.
Transaction-related costs In 2012 costs of US$109 million were incurred in relation to the Fosters transaction.
Exceptional items included in net finance costs Litigation-related interest income In 2012 US$4 million of interest was received in relation to the refund of the anti-trust ne in Europe.
Transaction-related net finance costs In 2012 net costs of US$26 million were incurred primarily related to the Fosters transaction and included fees relating to nancing facilities andpremiums on derivative instruments which were partially offset by mark to market gains on derivative financial instruments taken out in anticipation of the transaction and where hedge accounting could not be applied.
Share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items Impairments During 2013 an impairment of a soft drinks plant in BIH Angola amounted to US$5 million.
After taking account of non-controlling interests, thegroups share was US$3 million.
In 2012 the groups share of MillerCoors impairment of the Sparks brand amounted to US$35 million.
Pro ts on transactions in associates In 2012 Tsogo Sun released deferred consideration relating to a prior acquisition of which the groups share was US$13 million: US$10 million pro t arose on Tsogo Suns fair value accounting on the change in control on the acquisition of the outstanding stake in the Formula 1 chain: and a US$23 million pro t arose in Africa being the groups share of Castels pro t on disposal of its subsidiary in Nigeria.
Net taxation credits relating to subsidiaries and the groups share of associates and joint ventures exceptional items Net taxation credits of US$20 million 2012: US$24 million arose in relation to exceptional items during the year and include US$nil 2012:US$13 million in relation to MillerCoors although the tax credit is recognised in Miller Brewing Company see note 7.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Net finance costs 2013 2012 US$m US$m a.
Finance costs Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 183 170 Interest payable on derivatives 255 156 Interest payable on corporate bonds 677 463 Interest element of finance lease payments 1 1 Net exchange losses on nancing activities 25 13 Fair value losses on financial instruments: Fair value losses on standalone derivative financial instruments 220 144 Ineffectiveness of net investment hedges 4 Exceptional interest payable and similar charges 96 Other finance charges 56 46 Total finance costs 1,417 1,093 b.
Finance income Interest receivable 39 55 Interest receivable on derivatives 355 226 Fair value gains on financial instruments: Fair value gains on standalone derivative financial instruments 272 170 Fair value gains on dividend-related derivatives 10 3 Net exchange gains on dividends 2 3 Exceptional interest receivable and similar income 74 Other finance income 4 Total finance income 682 531 Net finance costs 735 562 1 These items have been excluded from the determination of adjusted earnings per share.
Adjusted net finance costs are therefore US$747 million 2012: US$542 million.
Refer to note 22 Financial risk factors for interest rate risk information.
Employee and key management compensation costs a.
Employee costs 2013 2012 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 2,154 2,038 Share-based payments 201 161 Social security costs 215 193 Pension costs 128 112 Post-retirement bene ts other than pensions 11 13 2,709 2,517 Of the US$2,709 million employee costs shown above, US$16 million 2012: US$15 million has been capitalised within intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
110 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.
Employee and key management compensation costs continued b.
Employee numbers The average monthly number of employees are shown on a full-time equivalent basis, excluding employees of associated and joint venture undertakings and including executive directors.
2013 2012 Number Number Latin America 29,882 26,933 Europe 10,489 14,095 North America 82 76 Africa 12,652 13,596 Asia Paci c 5,128 3,804 South Africa 11,438 11,939 Corporate 815 701 70,486 71,144 c. Key management compensation The directors of the group and members of the executive committee excom are fide ned as key management.
At 31 March 2013 there were 26 2012: 27 key management.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee bene ts 34 32 Post-employment bene ts 2 2 Share-based payments 61 36 97 70 d. Directors 2013 2012 US$m US$m Aggregate emoluments 6,689,562 2012: 6,087,153 11 10 Aggregate gains made on the exercise of share options or vesting of share awards 12 15 Notional contributions to unfunded retirement bene ts scheme 767,000 2012: 562,679 1 1 24 26 At 31 March 2013 two directors 2012: one had retirement bene ts accruing under money purchase pension schemes.
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes during the year amounted to 11,364 2012: nil.
Full details of individual directors remuneration are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 66 to 85.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Taxation 2013 2012 US$m US$m Current taxation 1,118 957 Charge for the year 1,131 986 Adjustments in respect of prior years 13 29 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 170 137 Total current taxation 1,288 1,094 Deferred taxation 87 32 Credit charge for the year 28 60 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 3 Rate change 64 25 Taxation expense 1,201 1,126 Tax credit relating to components of other comprehensive loss is as follows: Deferred tax credit on actuarial gains and losses 28 71 Deferred tax credit on financial instruments 6 30 34 101 Total current tax 1,288 1,094 Total deferred tax 121 69 Total taxation 1,167 1,025 Effective tax rate % 27.0 27.5 UK taxation included in the above Current taxation Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 133 39 Total current taxation 133 39 Deferred taxation 24 24 UK taxation expense 157 15 See the financial fide nitions section for the fide nition of the effective tax rate.
The calculation is on a basis consistent with that used in prior years and is also consistent with other group operating metrics.
Tax on amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software was US$135 million 2012: US$72 million.
MillerCoors is not a taxable entity.
The tax balances and obligations therefore remain with Miller Brewing Company as a 100% subsidiary of the group.
This subsidiarys tax charge includes tax including deferred tax on the groups share of the taxable pro ts of MillerCoors and includes tax in other comprehensive income on the groups share of MillerCoors taxable items included within other comprehensive income.
Tax rate reconciliation 2013 2012 US$m US$m Pro t before taxation 4,712 5,603 Less: Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,244 1,152 3,468 4,451 Tax charge at standard UK rate of 24% 2012: 26% 832 1,157 Exempt income 242 413 Other incentive allowances 20 63 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 157 47 Deferred tax asset not recognised 51 30 Initial recognition of deferred taxation 28 10 Tax impact of MillerCoors joint venture 180 179 Withholding taxes and other remittance taxes 170 137 Other taxes 35 28 Adjustments in respect of foreign tax rates 124 90 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 8 32 Deferred taxation rate change 64 25 Deferred taxation on unremitted earnings 14 1 Total taxation expense 1,201 1,126 112 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8.
Earnings per share 2013 2012 US cents US cents Basic earnings per share 205.9 266.6 Diluted earnings per share 203.5 263.8 Headline earnings per share 204.5 179.8 Adjusted basic earnings per share 238.7 214.8 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 236.0 212.5 The weighted average number of shares was: 2013 2012 Millions of Millions of shares shares Ordinary shares 1,667 1,661 Treasury shares 72 72 EBT ordinary shares 5 6 Basic shares 1,590 1,583 Dilutive ordinary shares 19 17 Diluted shares 1,609 1,600 The calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes 6,332,436 2012: 8,362,920 share options that were non-dilutive for the year because the exercise price of the option exceeded the fair value of the shares during the year, 21,226,441 2012: 14,799,716 share awards that were non-dilutive for the year because the performance conditions attached to the share awards have not been met and nil 2012: nil shares in relation to the employee component of the BBBEE scheme that were non-dilutive for the year.
These share incentives could potentially dilute earnings per share in the future.
Incentives involving 10,601,120 shares were granted after 31 March 2013 and before the date of signing of these financial statements.
Adjusted and headline earnings The group presents an adjusted earnings per share gure which excludes the impact of amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software, certain non-recurring items and post-tax exceptional items in order to present an additional measure of performance for the years shown in the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted earnings per share has been based on adjusted earnings for each financial year and on the same number of weighted average shares in issue as the basic earnings per share calculation.
Headline earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with the South African Circular 3 2012 entitled Headline Earnings which forms part of the listing requirements for theJSE Ltd JSE.
The adjustments made to arrive at headline earnings and adjusted earnings are as follows.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Pro t for the year attributable to owners of the parent 3,274 4,221 Headline adjustments Impairment of goodwill 11 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 39 Loss pro t on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 15 Net pro t on disposal of businesses 79 1,242 Pro t on disposal of investments in associates 103 Gain on dilution of investments in associates 4 Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint venture on acquisition 66 Tax effects of these items 14 12 Non-controlling interests share of the above items 3 40 Share of associates and joint ventures headline adjustments, net of tax and non-controlling interests 15 Headline earnings 3,252 2,847 Business capability programme costs 141 235 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme charges 17 29 Integration and restructuring costs 71 60 Net gain on fair value movements on capital items 12 2 Amortisation of intangible assets excluding computer software 394 218 Transaction-related costs 109 Litigation 42 Litigation-related finance income 4 Transaction-related net finance costs 26 Tax effects of the above items 137 101 Non-controlling interests share of the above items 8 7 Share of associates and joint ventures headline adjustments, net of tax and non-controlling interests 78 32 Adjusted earnings 3,796 3,400 1 This does not include all fair value movements but includes those in relation to capital items for which hedge accounting cannot be applied.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 9.
Dividends 2013 2012 US$m US$m Equity 2012 Final dividend paid: 69.5 US cents 2011: 61.5 US cents per ordinary share 1,125 973 2013 Interim dividend paid: 24.0 US cents 2012: 21.5 US cents per ordinary share 392 351 1,517 1,324 In addition, the directors are proposing a final dividend of 77 US cents per share in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2013 which willabsorb an estimated US$1,227 million of shareholders funds.
If approved by shareholders, the dividend will be paid on 23 August 2013 toshareholders registered on the London and Johannesburg registers as at 16 August 2013.
The total dividend per share for the year is 101UScents 2012: 91 US cents.
Treasury shares do not attract dividends and the employee bene t trusts have both waived their right to receive dividends further information can be found in note 26.
Goodwill US$m Cost At 1 April 2011 12,309 Exchange adjustments 188 Acquisitions through business combinations 8,091 Disposals 63 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale 29 1 At 31 March 2012 20,496 Exchange adjustments 301 Acquisitions through business combinations provisional see note 29 3 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale see note 18 13 At 31 March 2013 20,185 Accumulated impairment At 1 April 2011 355 Exchange adjustments 20 Disposals 10 At 31 March 2012 325 Exchange adjustments 13 Impairment 11 At 31 March 2013 323 Net book amount At 1 April 2011 11,954 1 At 31 March 2012 20,171 At 31 March 2013 19,862 1 As restated see note 28.
2013 Provisional goodwill arose on the acquisition through business combination in the year of Darbrew Limited in Tanzania.
The fair value exercise in respect of this business combination has yet to be completed.
2012 Goodwill arose on the acquisition through business combinations of Fosters and Paci c Beverages in Australia and International Breweries plc in Nigeria.
The fair value exercises in respect of these business combinations are now complete.
114 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 10.
Goodwill continued Goodwill is monitored principally on an individual country basis and the net book value is allocated by cash generating unit CGU as follows.
Assumptions The recoverable amount for a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use is determined by discounting the future post-tax cash ows generated from continuing use of the CGU using a post-tax discount rate, as this closely approximates to applying pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash ows.
Where a potential impairment is identi ed using post-tax cash ows and post-tax discount rates, the impairment review is reperformed on a pre-tax basis and the fair value less cost to sell calculated, in order to determine the impairment loss tobe recorded.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are as follows.
Expected volume compound annual growth rate CAGR Cash ows are based on financial forecasts approved by management for each CGU covering five-year periods and are dependent on managements expected volume CAGRs which have been determined based on past experience and planned initiatives, and with reference to external sources in respect of macroeconomic assumptions.
Expected growth rates over the five-year forecast period are generally higher than the long-term average growth rates for the economies in which the CGUs operate as a steady state is not necessarily expected to be reached in this period.
Discount rate The discount rate weighted average cost of capital is calculated using a methodology which re ects the returns from UnitedStates Treasury notes with a maturity of 20 years, an equity risk premium adjusted for speci c industry and country risks, and in ation differentials.
The group applies local post-tax discount rates to local post-tax cash ows.
Long-term growth rate Cash ows after the first five-year period are extrapolated using a long-term growth rate, in order to calculate theterminal recoverable amount.
The long-term growth rate is estimated using historical trends and expected future trends in in ation rates, based on external data.
The following table presents the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations in each of the groups operating segments: Expected volume CAGRs Post-tax Long-term 20142018 discount rates growth rates % % % Latin America 4.36.4 7.613.2 2.05.1 Europe 1.36.0 6.610.8 2.03.0 North America 8.5 6.7 2.5 Africa 7.68.8 13.516.8 6.09.5 Asia Paci c 2.16.3 7.412.7 3.06.5 South Africa 3.3 10.6 4.5 The most material balance is in Australia.
For the goodwill in Australia to be at risk of impairment the following situations would need to occur: future compound revenue growth to reduce to a level where operating pro t growth is limited to the long-term growth rate: or long-term growth in nominal terms to fall below 1.5%: or the discount rate to rise to 8.7% or higher.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Goodwill continued Impairment reviews results A US$30 million impairment loss has been recognised in respect of SABMiller Vietnam Company Limited in Asia Paci c, which was principally due to a deterioration in trading.
The impairment loss has been allocated to goodwill US$11 million and property, plant and equipment US$19million.
Sensitivities to assumptions The groups impairment reviews are sensitive to changes in the key assumptions described above.
Based on the groups sensitivity analysis, areasonably possible change in a single assumption will not cause an impairment loss in any of the groups CGUs.
Intangible assets Computer Brands software Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2011 4,860 540 48 5,448 Exchange adjustments 304 32 12 284 Additions separately acquired 6 165 171 Acquisitions through business combinations 4,832 595 5,427 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 3 3 Disposals 28 30 58 At 31 March 2012 9,974 646 655 11,275 Exchange adjustments 11 36 2 45 Additions separately acquired 149 149 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 29 2 2 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale see note 18 9 9 Disposals 4 7 11 At 31 March 2013 9,952 752 657 11,361 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2011 782 275 27 1,084 Exchange adjustments 23 17 2 4 Amortisation 201 55 17 273 Disposals 18 26 44 At 31 March 2012 988 287 42 1,317 Exchange adjustments 9 18 1 28 Amortisation 335 56 59 450 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale see note 18 7 7 Disposals 6 6 At 31 March 2013 1,307 319 100 1,726 Net book amount At 1 April 2011 4,078 265 21 4,364 At 31 March 2012 8,986 359 613 9,958 At 31 March 2013 8,645 433 557 9,635 1 As restated see note 28.
At 31 March 2013 signi cant individual brands included within the carrying value of intangible assets are as follows.
Amortisation period 2013 2012 remaining US$m US$m years Brand carrying value Carlton Australia 2,139 2,181 39 guila Colombia 1,478 1,557 32 Victoria Bitter Australia 1,080 1,101 39 Cristal Peru 646 646 32 Grolsch Netherlands 421 451 35 116 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 12.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in Plant, course of Land and vehicles Returnable construction buildings and systems containers Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2011 358 3,743 8,787 2,245 15,133 Exchange adjustments 15 99 350 106 570 Additions 801 20 369 306 1,496 Acquisitions through business combinations 54 347 373 12 786 Breakages and shrinkage 73 73 Transfers 563 118 383 62 Transfers to intangible assets 3 3 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale 10 44 54 Disposals 48 354 1,268 379 2,049 At 31 March 2012 584 3,765 8,250 2,067 14,666 Exchange adjustments 18 163 505 147 833 Additions 720 25 324 296 1,365 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 29 1 1 2 Breakages and shrinkage 71 71 Transfers 733 115 532 86 Transfers from other assets 3 3 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale see note 18 2 10 12 Disposals 11 18 313 138 480 At 31 March 2013 542 3,723 8,282 2,093 14,640 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2011 667 4,016 1,119 5,802 Exchange adjustments 29 174 57 260 Provided during the year 78 594 237 909 Breakages and shrinkage 26 26 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale 2 25 27 Disposals 42 635 217 894 At 31 March 2012 672 3,776 1,056 5,504 Exchange adjustments 43 273 82 398 Provided during the year 78 563 226 867 Breakages and shrinkage 24 24 Impairment 4 35 39 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale see note 18 1 6 7 Disposals 8 293 99 400 At 31 March 2013 702 3,802 1,077 5,581 Net book amount At 1 April 2011 358 3,076 4,771 1,126 9,331 At 31 March 2012 584 3,093 4,474 1,011 9,162 At 31 March 2013 542 3,021 4,480 1,016 9,059 1 As restated see note 28.
As a result of the annual impairment reviews, US$19 million of impairment losses have been recognised in the year 2012: US$nil see note 10.
Included in land and buildings is freehold land with a cost of US$725 million 2012: US$742 million which is not depreciated.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Property, plant and equipment continued Included in plant, vehicles and systems are the following amounts relating to assets held under finance leases.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Net book amount 40 34 Included in the amounts above are the following amounts in respect of borrowing costs capitalised.
2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 April 53 56 Exchange adjustments 4 2 Amortised during the year 1 At 31 March 49 53 Borrowing costs of US$nil 2012: US$nil were capitalised during the year.
Borrowings are secured by various of the groups property, plant and equipment with an aggregate net book value of US$21 million 2012:US$20 million.
Investments in joint ventures A list of the groups signi cant investments in joint ventures, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
US$m At 1 April 2011 5,813 Investments in joint ventures 288 Transfer to subsidiary undertaking 100 Share of results retained 671 Share of other comprehensive loss 256 Dividends received 896 At 31 March 2012 5,520 Investments in joint ventures 272 Share of results retained 717 Share of other comprehensive loss 76 Dividends received 886 At 31 March 2013 5,547 On 13 January 2012 the remaining 50% interest in Paci c Beverages was purchased and from this date the company has been accounted foras a subsidiary.
Summarised financial information for the groups interest in joint ventures is shown below.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Revenue 5,214 5,174 Expenses 4,497 4,502 Pro t after tax 717 672 Non-current assets 5,626 5,613 Current assets 593 573 Current liabilities 521 528 Non-current liabilities 829 801 118 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 14.
Investments in associates A list of the groups signi cant investments in associates, including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
US$m At 1 April 2011 2,719 Exchange adjustments 102 Investments in associates 2,056 Repayment of investments by associates 14 Acquisitions through business combinations 186 Disposal of investments in associates 104 Share of results retained 481 Dividends receivable 150 1 At 31 March 2012 5,072 Exchange adjustments 161 Investments in associates 106 Disposal of investments in associates 21 Share of results retained 527 Share of gains recognised in other comprehensive loss 6 Dividends receivable 113 At 31 March 2013 5,416 1 As restated see note 28.
2013 On 7 November 2012 Fosters sold its 49.9% interest in Fosters USA LLC to MillerCoors LLC at no gain or loss to the group.
Fosters LLC is now wholly owned by MillerCoors LLC.
2012 On 1 January 2012 the group acquired a 27.5% interest in BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltd BIH Angola in exchange forcontributing its Angolan businesses, including its associate, Empresa fide Cervejas NGola SARL, into BIH Angola.
Castel acquired the remaining 72.5% in BIH Angola, having contributed its Angolan businesses into BIH Angola.
On 6 March 2012 the group completed its strategic alliance with Anadolu Efes.
The groups Russian business, SABMiller RUS LLC, and Ukrainian business, PJSC Miller Brands Ukraine, were contributed to Anadolu Efes, in exchange for a 24% equity stake in the enlarged AnadoluEfes group.
On 25 November 2011 the group disposed of its effective 12% investment in Kenya Breweries Ltd, generating a pro t of US$103 million.
The analysis of associate undertakings between listed and unlisted investments is shown below.
1 2013 2012 US$m US$m Listed 2,580 2,536 Unlisted 2,836 2,536 5,416 5,072 As at 31 March the market value of listed investments included above is: Anadolu Efes 2,318 1,985 Distell Group Ltd 704 574 Delta Corporation Ltd 351 204 Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd 1,166 1,032 1 As restated see note 28.
Summarised financial information for associates for total assets, total liabilities, revenue and pro t or loss on a 100% basis is shown below.
1 2013 2012 US$m US$m Total assets 23,249 18,731 Total liabilities 8,890 6,231 Revenue 19,046 12,963 Net pro t 2,155 1,760 Some of the groups investments in associated undertakings which operate in African countries are also subject to local exchange control regulations.
These local exchange control regulations provide for restrictions on exporting capital from those countries, other than through normal dividends.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Inventories 1 2013 2012 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 691 670 Work in progress 123 122 Finished goods and goods for resale 361 456 1,175 1,248 1 As restated see note 28.
The following amount of inventories are expected to be utilised after 12 months.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Raw materials and consumables 48 43 There were no borrowings secured on the inventories of the group 2012: US$nil.
An impairment charge of US$15 million was recognised in respect of inventories during the year 2012: US$12 million.
Trade and other receivables 1 2013 2012 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,740 1,545 Less: provision for impairment 140 140 Trade receivables net 1,600 1,405 Other receivables 392 492 Less: provision for impairment 12 12 Other receivables net 380 480 Amounts owed by associates 68 205 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 5 6 Prepayments and accrued income 158 244 Total trade and other receivables 2,211 2,340 Analysed as: Current Trade receivables net 1,584 1,389 Other receivables net 274 370 Amounts owed by associates 59 205 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 5 6 Prepayments and accrued income 145 234 2,067 2,204 Non-current Trade receivables net 16 16 Other receivables net 106 110 Amounts owed by associates 9 Prepayments and accrued income 13 10 144 136 1 As restated see note 28.
The net carrying values of trade and other receivables are considered a close approximation of their fair values.
120 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 16.
Trade and other receivables continued At 31 March 2013 trade and other receivables of US$466 million 2012: US$441 million were past due but not impaired.
These relate to customers of whom there is no recent history of default.
The ageing of these trade and other receivables is shown below.
Past due Fully Within Over performing 30 days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-180 days 180 days US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2013 Trade receivables 1,255 181 62 15 18 42 Other receivables 290 44 18 5 4 15 Amounts owed by associates 6 2 3 4 53 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 5 1 At 31 March 2012 Trade receivables 1,140 129 58 15 23 29 Other receivables 353 16 13 4 18 3 Amounts owed by associates 72 8 6 12 107 Amounts owed by joint ventures trade 6 1 As restated see note 28.
The group holds collateral as security for past due trade receivables to the value of US$17 million 2012: US$28 million.
Collateral held primarily includes bank guarantees and charges over assets.
At 31 March 2013 trade receivables of US$167 million 2012: US$151 million were determined to be speci cally impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2013 was US$140 million 2012: US$140 million and re ects trade receivables from customers which are considered to be experiencing dif cult economic situations.
It was assessed that a portion of these receivables is expected to be recovered.
The group holds collateral as security against speci cally impaired trade receivables with a fair value of US$1 million 2012: US$1 million.
At 31 March 2013 other receivables of US$16 million 2012: US$13 million were determined to be speci cally impaired and provided for.
The amount of the provision at 31 March 2013 was US$12 million 2012: US$12 million and re ects loans to customers which are considered to beexperiencing dif cult economic situations.
The group held collateral as security against speci cally impaired other receivables at 31 March 2013 of US$1 million 2012: US$nil.
The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies.
Movements on the provisions for impairment of trade receivables and other receivables are as follows.
Trade receivables Other receivables 2013 2012 2013 2012 US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 140 147 12 14 Provision for receivables impairment 23 25 Receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 12 7 1 Acquisitions through business combinations 5 Disposals 4 20 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale 1 Exchange adjustments 7 9 1 At 31 March 140 140 12 12 The creation of provisions for impaired receivables is included in net operating expenses in the income statement see note 3.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 US$m US$m Short-term deposits 1,684 103 Cash at bank and in hand 487 642 2,171 745 Cash and short-term deposits of US$146 million 2012: US$144 million are held in African countries including South Africa and are subject to local exchange control regulations.
The group operates notional cash pools.
The structures facilitate interest and balance compensation of cash and bank overdrafts.
These notional pooling arrangements meet the set-off rules under IFRS and, as a result, the cash and overdraft balances have been reported net onthe balance sheet.
Effective 1 January 2012 the group combined the operational management of its Angolan businesses in Africa with the Angolan businesses ofits associate, Castel.
All of the Angolan businesses, in which the group retains an associate interest, have been managed from that date byCastel.
As a result, a participation in a bank loan of US$100 million previously owed by an Angolan subsidiary of the group was no longer entitled to be offset within borrowings.
During the year ended 31 March 2013 Castel has paid US$100 million to the group to cover the groups exposure in respect of the loan participation deposit.
This has resulted in a payable to associate being recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, as the loan participation deposit and the payable to associate are held with different counterparties and therefore are unable to be offset.
In accordance with IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, the loan participation has been separately disclosed on the balance sheet as a loan participation deposit, and inthecash ow statement has not been treated as a cash and cash equivalent as it is not readily convertible into cash.
Disposal group held for sale During 2013 the group agreed to sell its milk and juice business in Panama, subject to regulatory approvals.
Accordingly the assets and liabilities related to the milk and juice business in Panama have been presented as held for sale, and the disposal group presented within the Latin America segment in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments.
In 2012 the assets and liabilities related to Fosters interests in its Fijian beverage operations, Fosters Group Paci c Limited, were presented asheld for sale, and the disposal group presented within Asia Paci c. The Fijian beverage operations were disposed of on 7 September 2012. a.
Assets of disposal group classi ed as held for sale 2013 2012 US$m US$m Goodwill 13 29 Intangible assets 2 Property, plant and equipment 5 27 Inventories 3 18 Trade and other receivables 5 23 79 b.
Liabilities of disposal group classi ed as held for sale 2013 2012 US$m US$m Borrowings 1 Trade and other payables 3 Provisions 1 Deferred tax liabilities 1 2 1 7 122 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 19.
Trade and other payables 1 2013 2012 US$m US$m Trade payables 1,236 1,262 Accruals 873 1,076 Deferred income 9 14 Containers in the hands of customers 504 449 Amounts owed to associates 150 42 Amounts owed to joint ventures trade 14 17 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 10 12 Excise duty payable 363 383 VAT and other taxes payable 239 248 Other payables 738 736 Total trade and other payables 4,136 4,239 Analysed as: Current Trade payables 1,236 1,262 Accruals 873 1,076 Deferred income 5 6 Containers in the hands of customers 504 449 Amounts owed to associates trade 50 42 Amounts owed to joint ventures trade 14 17 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 4 3 Excise duty payable 363 383 VAT and other taxes payable 239 248 Other payables 716 641 4,004 4,127 Non-current Deferred income 4 8 Amounts owed to associates 100 Deferred consideration for acquisitions 6 9 Other payables 22 95 132 112 1 As restated see note 28.
Deferred taxation The movement on the net deferred tax liability is shown below.
1 2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 April 3,602 2,394 Exchange adjustments 45 52 Acquisitions through business combinations see note 29 1 1,270 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale see note 18 1 2 Disposals 26 Rate change 64 25 Transfers to current tax 17 Charged to the income statement 23 57 Deferred tax on items charged to other comprehensive loss: Financial instruments 6 30 Actuarial gains and losses 28 71 At 31 March 3,436 3,602 1 As restated see note 28.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Deferred taxation continued The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after offsetting of balances as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Pensions and postretirement Investment in Fixed asset bene t Financial MillerCoors Other timing allowances provisions Intangibles instruments joint venture differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities At 1 April 2011 711 16 1,187 48 748 4 2,578 Exchange adjustments 34 1 95 13 47 Acquisitions through business combinations 36 1,600 5 297 1,272 Disposals 49 2 4 55 Rate change 25 25 Transfers to current tax 1 16 15 Transfers to from deferred tax assets 2 23 21 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale 2 2 Charged credited to the income statement 112 5 62 37 51 41 Deferred tax on items charged to other comprehensiveloss: Financial instruments 1 29 30 Actuarial gains and losses 2 69 71 1 At 31 March 2012 707 14 2,818 46 687 433 3,719 Exchange adjustments 51 2 2 47 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 1 Rate change 64 64 Transfers from deferred tax assets 11 14 25 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale 1 1 Charged credited to the income statement 104 22 125 2 44 85 42 Deferred tax on items charged credited to other comprehensiveloss: Financial instruments 1 7 6 Actuarial gains and losses 6 22 28 At 31 March 2013 685 2 2,695 47 702 530 3,507 1 As restated see note 28.
Provisions Fixed asset and Other timing allowances accruals differences Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax assets At 1 April 2011 60 124 184 Exchange adjustments 1 1 5 5 Acquisitions through business combinations 2 2 Disposals 4 7 18 29 Transfers to current tax 2 2 Rate change 1 1 Transfers from to deferred tax liabilities 2 1 22 21 Charged credited to the income statement 1 5 20 16 At 31 March 2012 57 60 117 Exchange adjustments 1 1 2 Transfers to from deferred tax liabilities 11 20 6 25 Charged to the income statement 4 2 13 19 At 31 March 2013 15 34 52 71 124 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 20.
Deferred taxation continued Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
The deferred tax asset arises due to timing differences in Europe, Africa, Asia Paci c, and Latin America and, in the prior year, also Corporate.
Given both recent and forecast trading, the directors are of the opinion that the level of pro ts in the foreseeable future is more likely than not tobe suf cient to recover these assets.
Deferred tax liabilities of US$3,449 million 2012: US$3,662 million, restated are expected to fall due after more than one year.
Deferred tax assets of US$52 million 2012: US$71 million are expected to be recovered after more than one year.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: Tax losses 345 161 Tax credits 1,318 242 Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 16 13 Share-based payments 29 25 Other deductible temporary differences 60 107 1,768 548 Deferred tax assets in respect of tax losses are not recognised unless there is convincing evidence that there will be suf cient pro ts in future years to recover the assets.
A signi cant part of the tax losses arises in the UK and the value has been calculated at the substantively enacted rate of 23%.
It has been announced that the rate will fall to 20% commencing 1 April 2015.
The impact of this reduction is not anticipated to have a material impact on the financial statements.
The tax losses do not expire.
Deferred tax assets in respect of tax credits arising which are carried forward for offset against future pro ts are not recognised unless there isabsolute certainty that future pro ts will arise.
US$968 million 2012: US$242 million of such tax credits expire within 10 years.
Deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where there is an intention to distribute those reserves.
Adeferred tax liability of US$16 million 2012: US$37 million has been recognised.
A deferred tax liability of US$80 million 2012: US$51 million has also been recognised in respect of unremitted pro ts of associates where a dividend policy is not in place.
No deferred tax has been recognised on unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these differences and it is not probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Similarly no tax is provided where there are plans to remit overseas earnings of subsidiaries but it is not expected that such distributions will give rise to a tax liability.
As a result of UK legislation which largely exempts overseas dividends from tax, the temporary differences arising on unremitted pro ts are unlikely to lead to additional corporate taxes.
However, remittance to the UK of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as aresult of withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Borrowings 2013 2012 US$m US$m Current Secured Overdrafts 9 10 Obligations under finance leases 8 5 Other secured loans 5 6 22 21 Unsecured 1,2, 3,4 US$1,100 million 5.5% Notes due 2013 1,111 5 COP338,520 million IPC 7.5% Ordinary Bonds due 2013 200 1,2, 4,6 US$550 million 5.7% Notes due 2014 570 2,7 ZAR1,600 million 9.935% Notes due 2012 209 5 COP370,000 million IPC 8.18% Ordinary Bonds due 2012 220 Other unsecured loans 363 484 Overdrafts 203 128 2,447 1,041 Total current borrowings 2,469 1,062 The fair value of current borrowings equals the carrying amount, as the impact of discounting is not signi cant.
1 The notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
2 The notes are redeemable in whole but not in part at the option of the issuer upon the occurrence of certain changes in taxation at their principal amount with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption.
3 On 13 August 2003 Miller Brewing Company issued US$1,100 million, 5.5% Guaranteed Notes due August 2013.
Since 1 July 2008 SABMiller plc has been the sole obligor of the notes.
4 On 11 June 2012 SABMiller Holdings Inc entered into a contingent guarantee of the obligations of SABMiller plc in respect of these Notes and certain of its other present and future external borrowings.
The guarantee takes effect upon the occurrence of certain insolvency events in relation to SABMiller plc.
5 With effect from 31 March 2011 98.7% of the 2012 bonds and 97.4% of the 2013 bonds issued by Bavaria SA have been guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
6 On 17 July 2008 SABMiller plc issued US$550 million, 5.7% Notes due January 2014.
7 On 19 July 2007 SABSA Holdings Pty Ltd issued ZAR1,600 million, 9.935% Notes due July 2012.
The notes were issued under the ZAR4,000 million increased to ZAR6,000 million on24December 2008 Domestic Medium Term Note Programme established on 17 July 2007 and guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
126 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 21.
The fair values are based on a combination of market quoted prices and cash ows discounted using prevailing interest rates.
1 On 28 March 2013 SABSA Holdings Ltd issued ZAR1,000 million, 7.125% Notes due March 2018.
The notes were issued under the ZAR6,000 million Domestic Medium Term Note Programme established on 13 December 2012 and guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
3 On 6 December 2012 SABMiller Holdings Inc issued 1,000 million, 1.875% Notes due January 2020.
The notes were issued under the SABMiller Holdings Inc US$3,000 million EuroMedium Term Note Programme guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
4 The notes are redeemable in whole or in part at any time at the option of the issuer at a redemption price equal to the make-whole amount.
5 On 17 January 2012 SABMiller Holdings Inc issued US$1,000 million, 1.85% Notes due January 2015, US$2,000 million, 2.45% Notes due January 2017, US$2,500 million, 3.75% Notes due January 2022 and US$1,500 million, 4.95% Notes due January 2042, guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
6 On 13 August 2003 Miller Brewing Company issued US$1,100 million, 5.5% Guaranteed Notes due August 2013.
7 On 11 June 2012 SABMiller Holdings Inc entered into a contingent guarantee of the obligations of SABMiller plc in respect of these Notes and certain of its other present and future external borrowings.
8 On 17 July 2009 SABMiller plc issued 1,000 million, 4.5% Notes due January 2015.
The notes were issued under the SABMiller plc US$5,000 million Euro Medium Term Note Programme.
9 On 13 August 2003 SABMiller plc issued US$300 million, 6.625% Guaranteed Notes due August 2033.
Since 10 September 2010 the principal and interest in respect of the notes has not been guaranteed.
10 On 5 July 2006 SABMiller plc issued US$850 million, 6.5% Notes due July 2016.
11 On 17 July 2008 SABMiller plc issued US$550 million, 5.7% Notes due January 2014 and US$700 million, 6.5% Notes due July 2018.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Borrowings continued 12 On 19 March 2010 SABMiller plc issued PEN150 million, 6.75% Notes due March 2015.
13 On 5 October 2004 Fosters Finance Corp issued US$300 million, 4.875% Notes due October 2014, guaranteed by Fosters Group Pty Ltd. 14 On 28 June 2005 FBG Finance Ltd issued US$700 million, 5.125% Notes due June 2015 and US$300 million, 5.875% Notes due June 2035, guaranteed by Fosters Group Pty Ltd. 15 On 3 June 1996 FBG Finance Ltd issued US$300 million, 7.875% Notes due June 2016, guaranteed by Fosters Group Pty Ltd. 16 With effect from 31 March 2011 85.5% of the 2014 bonds, 94.0% of the 2015 bonds and 97.4% of the 2013 bonds, all issued by Bavaria SA, have been guaranteed by SABMiller plc.
17 On 9 September 2011 the group entered into US$12,500 million, multicurrency committed syndicated facilities primarily for the purpose of acquiring Fosters.
By31 March 2013 US$10,855 million 2012: US$9,081 million of this facility had been voluntarily cancelled.
Of the remaining US$1,645 million 2012: US$3,419million facility, US$500 million 2012:US$500million is a revolving credit facility and undrawn.
Undrawn borrowing facilities The group had the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met at that date.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Amounts expiring: Within one year 281 774 Between one and two years 17 12 Between two and five years 554 788 In five years or more 2,500 2,236 3,352 3,810 In April 2011 the group entered into a five-year US$2,500 million committed syndicated revolving credit facility, with the option of two one-year extensions.
In March 2013 the maturity of this facility was extended to April 2018.
The contingent guarantee referred to in footnote 7 on page 127 extends to the obligations of SABMiller plc in respect of this facility.
Maturity of obligations under finance leases Obligations under finance leases are as follows.
2013 2012 US$m US$m The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows.
Within one year 9 6 Between one and five years 24 17 In five years or more 10 43 23 Future finance charges 8 2 Present value of finance lease liabilities 35 21 Maturity of non-current financial liabilities The maturity pro le of the carrying amount of the groups non-current financial liabilities at 31 March was as follows.
Net derivative Net derivative Borrowings financial Borrowings financial 1 1 and Finance assets 2013 and Finance assets 2012 overdrafts leases note 23 Total overdrafts leases note 23 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Amounts falling due: Between one and two years 4,173 7 45 4,135 1,964 2 8 1,958 Between two and five years 5,031 15 235 4,811 10,605 14 356 10,263 In five years or more 6,848 5 303 6,550 5,579 254 5,325 16,052 27 583 15,496 18,148 16 618 17,546 1 Net borrowings-related derivative financial instruments only.
128 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors Financial risk management Overview In the normal course of business, the group is exposed to the following financial risks: Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note explains the groups exposure to each of the above risks, aided by quantitative disclosures included throughout these consolidated financial statements, and it summarises the policies and processes that are in place to measure and manage the risks arising, including those related to the management of capital.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the establishment and oversight of the groups risk management framework.
An essential part of this framework is the role undertaken by the audit committee of the board, supported by the internal audit function, and by the chief financial of cer, who in this regard is supported by the treasury committee and the group treasury function.
Among other responsibilities, the audit committee reviews the internal control environment and risk management systems within the group and it reports its activities to the board.
Theboard also receives a quarterly report on treasury activities, including con rmation of compliance with treasury risk management policies.
The group treasury function is responsible for the management of cash, borrowings and the financial risks arising in relation to interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The responsibility for the management of commodities exposures lies with the procurement functions within the group, including SABMiller Procurement GmbH SABMiller Procurement, formerly Trinity Procurement GmbH, the groups centralised procurement function.
Risk management ofkey brewing and packaging materials has now been substantially transferred to SABMiller Procurement.
Some of the risk management strategies include the use of derivatives, principally in the form of forward foreign currency contracts, cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps and exchange-traded futures contracts, in order to manage the currency, interest rate and commodities exposures arising from the groups operations.
The group also purchases call options where these provide a cost-effective hedging alternative and, where they form part of an option collar strategy, the group also sells put options to reduce or eliminate the cost of purchased options.
It is the policy of the group that no trading in financial instruments be undertaken.
The groups treasury policies are established to identify and analyse the financial risks faced by the group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor exposures and adherence to limits.
Market risk i Foreign exchange risk The group is subject to exposure on the translation of the foreign currency denominated net assets of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures into the groups US dollar reporting currency.
The group seeks to mitigate this exposure, where cost effective, by borrowing in the same currencies as the functional currencies of its main operating units or by achieving the same effect through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts and currency swaps.
An approximate nominal value of US$4,589 million of US dollar borrowings and 351 million of euroborrowings 2012: US$4,429 million of US dollar borrowings and 255 million of euro borrowings have been swapped into currencies thatmatch the currency of the underlying operations of the group, including South African rand, Peruvian nuevo sol, Czech koruna, Polish zloty, Australian dollar and Colombian peso.
Of these financial derivatives US$2,882 million and 351 million 2012: US$2,406 million and 255million are accounted for as net investment hedges and US$1,300 million 2012: US$1,600 million are accounted for as fair value hedges.
The group does not hedge currency exposures from the translation of pro ts earned in foreign currency subsidiaries, associates and jointventures.
The group is also exposed to transactional currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of group entities.
These exposures are presently managed locally by group entities which, subject to regulatory constraints or currency market limitations, hedge a proportion of their foreign currency exposure estimated to arise over a period of up to 18months.
Committed transactional exposures that are certain are hedged fully without limitation in time.
The group principally uses forward exchange contracts to hedge currency risk.
The tables below set out the groups currency exposures from financial assets and liabilities held by group companies in currencies other than their functional currencies and resulting in exchange movements in the income statement and balance sheet.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued Other Latin SA Australian European American US dollars rand dollars Euro currencies currencies Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 21 135 3 36 134 165 21 515 Derivative financial instruments 2,023 61 1,034 352 3,470 Cash and cash equivalents 25 2 8 16 9 2 62 Intra-group assets 190 8 115 1,062 802 2 2,179 At 31 March 2013 2,259 206 118 2,140 1,304 174 25 6,226 Potential impact on earnings loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 305 26 20 200 160 29 4 744 20% decrease in functional currency 365 31 24 240 192 35 5 892 Potential impact on other comprehensive income loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 72 8 157 57 294 20% decrease in functional currency 86 10 188 69 353 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 260 47 19 143 415 215 5 1,104 1 Derivative financial instruments 58 565 1,331 431 1,023 428 3,836 Borrowings 1,533 521 2,557 9 58 113 4,791 Intra-group liabilities 45 41 400 103 114 1 704 At 31 March 2013 1,896 653 2,271 3,234 1,561 701 119 10,435 Potential impact on earnings gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 316 17 70 200 90 36 20 749 20% decrease in functional currency 379 20 84 240 108 43 24 898 Potential impact on other comprehensive income gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 92 309 339 171 81 992 20% decrease in functional currency 110 370 407 205 97 1,189 1 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
130 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors continued Other Latin SA Australian European American US dollars rand dollars Euro currencies currencies Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Trade and other receivables 25 130 4 46 155 61 421 Derivative financial instruments 2,273 40 543 231 21 3,108 Cash and cash equivalents 50 7 1 22 5 2 21 108 Intra-group assets 278 63 17 1,080 323 3 1,764 At 31 March 2012 2,626 240 22 1,691 714 2 106 5,401 Potential impact on earnings loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 345 40 4 211 81 15 696 20% decrease in functional currency 414 47 4 254 97 19 835 Potential impact on other comprehensive income loss gain 20% increase in functional currency 93 1 71 39 2 206 20% decrease in functional currency 111 1 85 46 2 245 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 160 54 18 159 384 19 21 815 1 Derivative financial instruments 236 492 1,035 121 709 510 3,103 Borrowings 1,692 2,069 1,381 56 62 5,260 Intra-group liabilities 8 79 278 159 189 2 715 At 31 March 2012 2,096 625 3,400 1,820 1,282 585 85 9,893 Potential impact on earnings gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 349 22 49 287 95 3 15 820 20% decrease in functional currency 419 27 59 344 115 4 16 984 Potential impact on other comprehensive income gain loss 20% increase in functional currency 82 517 17 118 95 829 20% decrease in functional currency 98 621 20 142 113 994 1 These represent the notional amounts of derivative financial instruments.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Currency risks arise on account of financial instruments being denominated in a currency that is not the functional currency and being of a monetary nature.
The group holds foreign currency cash ow hedges totalling US$1,317 million at 31 March 2013 2012: US$1,224 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the cash ow hedging reserve until the hedged transactions occur, at which time the respective gains and losses are transferred to inventory, property, plant and equipment, goodwill or to the income statement as appropriate.
The group holds net investment hedges totalling US$5,937 million at 31 March 2013 2012: US$5,312 million.
The foreign exchange gains or losses on these contracts are recorded in the net investment hedging reserve and partially offset the foreign currency translation risk on the groups foreign currency net assets.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued ii Interest rate risk As at 31 March 2013 46% 2012: 43% of consolidated gross borrowings were in xed rates taking into account interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
The groups policy is to borrow directly or synthetically in oating rates, re ecting the fact that oating rates are generally lower than xed rates in the medium term.
However, a minimum of 25% of consolidated net borrowings is required to be in xed rates for a minimum duration of 12months and the extent to which group borrowings may be in oating rates is restricted to the lower of 75% of consolidated net borrowings and that amount of net borrowings in oating rates that with a 1% increase in interest rates would increase finance costs by an amount equal to but not more than 1.20% of adjusted EBITDA.
The policy excludes any in ation-linked debt, where there will be a natural hedge within business operations, and also excludes borrowings arising from acquisitions in the previous six months.
Exposure to movements in interest rates in group borrowings is managed through interest rate swaps and forward rate agreements.
As at 31March 2013 on a policy adjusted basis, 56% 2012: 50% of consolidated net borrowings were in xed rates.
The impact of a 1% rise in interest rates on borrowings in oating rates would be equivalent to 1.01% 2012: 0.44% of adjusted EBITDA.
The cash ow interest rate risk sensitivities on variable debt and interest rate swaps were.
Fair value sensitivity analysis for xed income instruments Changes in the market interest rates of non-derivative financial instruments with xed interest rates only affect income if these are measured at their fair value.
As such, all financial instruments with xed rates of interest that are accounted for at amortised cost are not subject to interest rate risk as fide ned in IFRS 7.
The group holds derivative contracts with a nominal value of US$6,704 million as at 31 March 2013 2012: US$6,217 million which are designated as fair value hedges.
In the case of these instruments and the underlying xed rate bonds, changes in the fair values of the hedged item and the hedging instrument attributable to interest rate movements net off almost completely in the income statement in the same period.
Cash ow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments A change of 100 bps in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased decreased other comprehensive income and the income statement by the amounts shown above.
This analysis assumes all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Theanalysis was performed on the same basis for 2012.
132 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors continued Interest rate pro les of financial liabilities The following table sets out the contractual repricing included within the underlying borrowings excluding net borrowings-related derivatives exposed to either xed interest rates or oating interest rates and revises this for the repricing effect of interest rate and cross currency swaps.
2013 2012 Total Effect of Total Total Effect of Total borrowings derivatives exposure borrowings derivatives exposure US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Repricing due: Within one year 4,823 5,515 10,338 5,138 5,981 11,119 Between one and two years 1,375 946 429 1,712 900 812 Between two and five years 5,508 2,816 2,692 6,824 3,874 2,950 In five years or more 6,842 1,753 5,089 5,552 1,207 4,345 Total interest bearing 18,548 18,548 19,226 19,226 Analysed as: Fixed rate interest 14,050 5,515 8,535 14,314 5,981 8,333 Floating rate interest 4,498 5,515 10,013 4,912 5,981 10,893 Total interest bearing 18,548 18,548 19,226 19,226 iii Price risk Commodity price risk The group is exposed to variability in the price of commodities used in the production or in the packaging of nished products, such as the price of malt, barley, sugar and aluminium.
Commodity price risk is managed within minimum and maximum guard rails principally through multi-year xed price contracts with suppliers and, where appropriate, derivative contracts.
The group hedges a proportion of commodity supply and price risk for a period of up to five years.
Where derivative contracts are used the group manages exposures principally through exchange-traded futures, forwards and swaps.
At 31 March 2013 the notional value of commodity derivatives amounted to US$89 million 2012: US$36 million.
No sensitivity analysis has been provided on these outstanding contracts as the impact is considered to be immaterial.
Equity securities price risk The group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the group and classi ed on the balance sheet as available for sale investments.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Financial instruments The group limits its exposure to financial institutions by setting credit limits on a sliding scale based on their credit ratings and generally dealing only with counterparties with a minimum credit rating of BBBby Standard & Poors and Baa3 from Moodys.
For banks with a lower credit rating, or with no international credit rating, a maximum limit of US$5 million is applied, unless speci c approval is obtained from either the chief financial of cer or the audit committee of the board.
The utilisation of credit limits is regularly monitored.
To reduce credit exposures, the group has ISDA Master Agreements with most of its counterparties for financial derivatives, which permit net settlement of assets and liabilities in certain circumstances.
Trade and other receivables There is no signi cant concentration of credit risk with respect to trade receivables as the group has a large number of customers which are internationally dispersed.
The type of customers range from wholesalers and distributors to smaller retailers.
The group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales commence.
Credit risk is managed by limiting the aggregateamount of exposure to any one counterparty.
The group considers its maximum credit risk to be US$5,052 million 2012: US$3,705 million, as restated which is the total of the groups financial assets.
c. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The group nances its operations through cash generated by the business and a mixture of short-term and medium-term bank credit facilities, bank loans, corporate bonds and commercial paper with a range of maturity dates.
In this way, the group ensures that it is not overly reliant on any particular liquidity source or that maturities of borrowings sourced in this way are not overly concentrated.
Subsidiaries have access to local bank credit facilities, but are principally funded by the group.
At 31 March 2013 the group had the following core lines of credit that were available for general corporate purposes.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued SABMiller plc: US$2,500 million committed syndicated revolving credit facility, which is due to expire in April 2018.
SABMiller Holdings Inc: US$500 million revolving credit facility, which is due to expire in September 2016.
Liquidity risk faced by the group is mitigated by having diverse sources of finance available to it and by maintaining substantial unutilised banking facilities and reserve borrowing capacity, as indicated by the level of undrawn facilities.
As at 31 March 2013 the borrowing capacity under committed bank facilities amounted to US$3,352 million 2012: US$3,810 million.
The table below analyses the groups financial liabilities which will be settled on a net basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual settlement date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash ows.
The amounts disclosed for financial guarantee contracts represent the maximum possible cash out ows for guarantees provided in respect of associates bank facilities, which would only be payable upon the occurrence of certain default events.
Should such events occur, certain remedies are available that could mitigate the impact.
Balances due within 12 months equal their carrying balances as the impact of discounting is not signi cant.
Between Between Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2013 Borrowings 3,466 4,468 5,881 9,407 Derivative financial instruments 11 13 13 Trade and other payables 3,391 119 Financial guarantee contracts 234 At 31 March 2012 Borrowings 1,803 2,904 11,763 8,361 Derivative financial instruments 18 16 11 35 1 Trade and other payables 3,489 95 7 4 Financial guarantee contracts 174 1 As restated see note 28.
The table below analyses the groups derivative financial instruments which will be settled on a gross basis into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual settlement date.
Forward foreign currency swaps have been included for the first time in the table below for the year ended 31 March 2013, alongwith the comparative for the prior year.
Between Between Less than 1 and 2 2 and 5 Over 1 year years years 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2013 Forward foreign currency swaps Out ow 2,944 43 In ow 2,982 43 Forward foreign exchange contracts Out ow 1,308 63 In ow 1,306 63 Cross currency swaps Out ow 325 466 1,730 874 In ow 332 451 1,816 864 At 31 March 2012 Forward foreign currency swaps Out ow 2,492 87 In ow 2,527 82 Forward foreign exchange contracts Out ow 399 12 In ow 401 12 Cross currency swaps Out ow 278 346 1,686 866 In ow 216 331 1,637 877 134 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 22.
Financial risk factors continued Capital management The capital structure of the group consists of net debt see note 27c and shareholders equity.
The groups policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market con dence and to sustain future development of the business.
Besides the minimum capitalisation rules that may apply to subsidiaries in different countries, the groups only externally imposed capital requirement relates to the groups core lines of credit which include a net debt to EBITDA financial covenant which was complied with throughout the year.
The group monitors its financial capacity and credit ratings by reference to a number of key financial ratios and cash ow metrics including net debt toadjusted EBITDA and interest cover.
These provide a framework within which the groups capital base is managed including dividend policy.
If the group fails to meet the financial targets required by the ratings agencies, a credit rating downgrade could impact the average interest rate of borrowings of the group and the future availability of credit to the group.
The group is currently rated Baa1 stable outlook by Moodys Investors Service and BBB positive outlook by Standard & Poors Ratings Services.
Fair value estimation The following table presents the groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2013 Assets Derivative financial instruments 843 843 Available for sale investments 10 12 22 Total assets 853 12 865 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 86 86 Total liabilities 86 86 At 31 March 2012 Assets Derivative financial instruments 756 756 Available for sale investments 1 18 12 31 Total assets 1 774 12 787 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 109 109 Total liabilities 109 109 The levels of the fair value hierarchy and its application to the groups financial assets and liabilities are described below.
Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service, or regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted marketprice used for financial assets held by the group is the current bid price.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived fromprices : The fair values of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over the counter derivatives or infrequently traded listed investments are determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity speci c estimates.
If all signi cant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data: Speci c valuation techniques, such as discounted cash ow analysis, are used to determine fair value of the remaining financial instruments.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Financial risk factors continued The following table presents the changes in level 3 instruments for the years ended 31 March.
Available for sale investments 2013 2012 US$m US$m At 1 April 12 15 Exchange adjustments 1 Disposals 2 At 31 March 12 12 23.
Derivative financial instruments Current derivative financial instruments 2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m Embedded derivatives 1 1 1 Interest rate swaps on borrowings 25 4 Forward foreign currency contracts on operating items 11 13 7 13 1 Forward foreign currency contracts on borrowings 26 1 14 12 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as cash ow hedges 1 12 3 12 1 Cross currency swaps on borrowings 47 Commodity contracts designated as cash ow hedges 4 2 111 34 24 40 1 Borrowings-related derivative financial instruments amounting to a net asset of US$93 million 2012: US$2 million.
Non-current derivative financial instruments 2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 428 13 394 18 1 Interest rate swaps designated as cash ow hedges 10 4 1 Interest rate swaps on borrowings 11 55 9 1 Forward foreign currency contracts on borrowings 5 5 Forward foreign currency contracts on operating items designated as net investment hedges 32 14 42 21 1 Forward foreign currency contracts on borrowings designated as net investment hedges 4 2 10 1 Cross currency swaps on borrowings 45 74 1 Cross currency swaps designated as cash ow hedges 59 18 1 Cross currency swaps designated as fair value hedges 78 113 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 81 31 7 Commodity contracts designated as cash ow hedges 2 732 52 732 69 1 Borrowings-related derivative financial instruments amounting to a net asset of US$583 million 2012: US$618 million.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments i Fair value hedges The group has entered into several interest rate swaps to pay oating and receive xed interest which have been designated as fair value hedges to hedge exposure to changes in the fair value of its US dollar and euro xed rate borrowings.
Borrowings are designated as the hedged item as part of the fair value hedge.
The borrowings and the interest rate swaps have the same critical terms.
As at 31 March 2013 the notional amount of the US dollar interest rate swaps was US$4,250 million 2012: US$3,950 million.
The xed interest rates received vary from 1.85% to 6.625% 2012: 1.85% to 6.625% and the oating interest rates paid vary from LIBOR plus 47.2 bps to LIBOR plus 177.8 bps 2012: LIBOR plus 71.6 bps to LIBOR plus 177.8 bps on the notional amount.
As at 31 March 2013 the notional amount of the euro interest rate swaps was 900 million 2012: 500 million.
The xed interest rates received are 1.875% to 4.5% 2012: 4.5% and oating interest rates paid vary from EURIBOR plus 71 bps to EURIBOR plus 178 bps 2012: EURIBOR plus 177 bps to EURIBOR plus 178 bps on the notional amount.
136 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 23.
Derivative financial instruments continued The group has entered into interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps, the cumulative effect of which is to receive xed US dollar interest and pay Australian dollar oating interest, and to convert the pro le of the US dollar borrowings into Australian dollars.
These swaps have been designated as a combination of fair value and cash ow hedges to hedge the exposure of the Australian operations to changes in the fair value of the US dollar borrowings.
As at 31 March 2013 the notional amount of the interest rate swaps was US$300 million 2012: US$600 million.
The xed interest rates received are 7.875% 2012: 4.875% to 7.875% and the oating interest rates paid vary from LIBOR plus 69.2 bps to LIBOR plus 72.8 bps 2012:LIBOR plus 47 bps to LIBOR plus 73 bps on the notional amount.
The notional amount of the cross currency interest rate swaps was US$1,300 million 2012: US$1,600 million.
These were: US$1,000 million 2012: US$1,000 million received US dollar xed rate interest varying from 5.125% to 5.875% 2012: 5.125% to 5.875% andpaid oating Australian dollar interest with rates varying from Australian bank bills plus 268 bps to Australian bank bills plus 410 bps 2012: Australian bank bills plus 268 bps to Australian bank bills plus 410 bps : and US$300 million 2012: US$600 million received oating US dollar interest with rates of LIBOR plus 71 bps 2012: LIBOR plus 47 bps to LIBOR plus 71 bps and paid oating Australian dollar interest with rates of Australian bank bills plus 117 bps 2012: Australian bank bills plus87 bps to Australian bank bills plus 117 bps.
As at 31 March 2013 the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$7,202 million 2012: US$6,827 million.
ii Cash ow hedges The group has entered into Australian dollar interest rate swaps designated as cash ow hedges to manage the interest rate on borrowings.
The notional amount of these interest rate swaps was US$521 million equivalent 2012: US$515 million.
The fair value of these interest rate swaps was a liability of US$10 million 2012: US$4 million.
The xed interest rate paid varies from 4.27% to 4.38% 2012: 4.27% to 4.38% and the oating rates received are Australian bank bills plus zero bps 2012: Australian bank bills plus zero bps.
As at 31 March 2013 the carrying value of the hedged borrowings was US$523 million 2012: US$535 million.
The group has entered into forward exchange contracts designated as cash ow hedges to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected net operating costs including future trade imports and exports.
As at 31 March 2013 the notional amounts of these contracts were 383 million, US$432 million, GBP144 million, Swiss franc CHF 70 million, ZAR464 million and CZK674 million 2012: 317 million, US$557 million, GBP128 million, CHF15 million, ZAR405 million and CZK12 million.
The group has entered into commodity contracts designated as cash ow hedges to manage the future price of commodities.
As at 31 March 2013 the notional amount of forward contracts for the purchase price of corn was US$13 million 2012: US$3 million, the notional amount of forward contracts for the purchase price of aluminium was US$75 million 2012: US$33 million and the notional amount of forward contracts for the purchase price of sugar was US$1 million 2012: US$nil.
The following table indicates the period in which the cash ows associated with derivatives that are cash ow hedges are expected to occur and impact the income statement.
Carrying Expected Less than Between 1 Between 2 amount cash ows 1 year and 2 years and 5 years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2013 Interest rate swaps: Liabilities 10 10 4 6 Forward foreign currency contracts: Assets 1 1 1 Liabilities 12 12 12 Commodity contracts: Liabilities 6 8 4 3 1 27 29 19 9 1 At 31 March 2012 Interest rate swaps: Liabilities 4 4 1 2 1 Forward foreign currency contracts: Assets 3 4 4 Liabilities 12 13 13 Commodity contracts: Liabilities 2 2 2 15 15 12 2 1 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Derivative financial instruments continued iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The group has entered into several forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps which it has designated as hedges of net investments in its foreign subsidiaries in South Africa, Australia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Colombia and Peru to hedge the groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on these investments.
Net gains relating to forward foreign currency contracts and cross currency swaps ofUS$63 million 2012: losses of US$1 million have been recognised in other comprehensive income.
Analysis of notional amounts on financial instruments designated as net investment hedges: 2013 2012 m m Forward foreign currency contracts: SA rand 3,681 2,374 Czech koruna 5,575 6,825 Peruvian nuevo sol 480 631 Australian dollar 1,000 1,000 Polish zloty 611 630 Colombian peso 445,500 490,476 Cross currency swaps: SA rand 1,404 1,404 Australian dollar 277 Polish zloty 585 433 Czech koruna 7,600 Standalone derivative financial instruments i Forward foreign currency contracts The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage short-term foreign currency exposures to expected future trade imports and exports.
These derivatives are fair valued based on discounted future cash ows with gains and losses taken to the income statement.
As at 31 March 2013 the notional amounts of these contracts were 32 million, US$61 million and ZAR28 million 2012: 91 million, US$150 million and ZAR37 million.
The group has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
As at 31 March 2013 the notional amounts of these contracts were US$108 million, 3 million, GBP31 million, Romanian lei RON 454 million, PLN863 million, CHF34 million, ZAR251 million, CZK6,340 million, AUD415 million and Hungarian forints HUF 14,500 million 2012: US$110 million, 60million, GBP34 million, RON196 million, PLN189 million, CHF15 million, ZAR632 million, CZK1,425 million and AUD209 million.
ii Cross currency swaps The group has entered into cross currency swaps to manage foreign currency exposures on intercompany loan balances.
As at 31 March 2013 the notional amounts of these contracts were 317 million 2012: 317 million.
Fair value gain on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 2013 2012 US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps 8 8 Interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 7 104 Forward foreign currency contracts 12 76 Forward foreign currency contracts designated as fair value hedges 3 8 Cross currency swaps 19 27 Cross currency swaps designated as net investment hedges 4 Other fair value gains 18 30 53 233 Other financial instruments: Non-current borrowings designated as the hedged item in a fair value hedge 7 104 Total fair value gain on financial instruments recognised in the income statement 60 129 Fair value gains or losses on borrowings, derivative financial instruments held to hedge interest rate risk on borrowings and derivative financial instruments acquired to hedge the risks of the Fosters acquisition were recognised as part of net finance costs.
Fair value gains or losses on allother derivative financial instruments are recognised in operating pro t. 138 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 23.
Derivative financial instruments continued Reconciliation of total financial instruments The table below reconciles the groups accounting categorisation of financial assets and liabilities based on initial recognition to the classes of assets and liabilities as shown on the face of the balance sheet.
Financial Fair value liabilities Not through held at categorised income Loans and Available amortised as a financial Nonstatement receivables for sale cost instrument Total current Current US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2013 Assets Available for sale investments 22 22 22 Derivative financial instruments 843 843 732 111 Trade and other receivables 1,916 295 2,211 144 2,067 Loan participation deposit 100 100 100 Cash and cash equivalents 2,171 2,171 2,171 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 86 86 52 34 Borrowings 18,548 18,548 16,079 2,469 Trade and other payables 3,524 612 4,136 132 4,004 1 At 31 March 2012 Assets Available for sale investments 31 31 30 1 Derivative financial instruments 756 756 732 24 Trade and other receivables 2,073 267 2,340 136 2,204 Loan participation deposit 100 100 100 Cash and cash equivalents 745 745 745 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 109 109 69 40 Borrowings 19,226 19,226 18,164 1,062 Trade and other payables 3,594 645 4,239 112 4,127 1 As restated see note 28.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Provisions Demerged Postentities and retirement  litigation bene ts related Restructuring related contracts Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 94 310 302 70 46 7 44 873 Exchange adjustments 2 1 2 2 7 2 6 Acquisitions through business combinations 34 1 37 160 29 211 26 498 Disposals 1 10 1 9 21 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 4 28 3 23 17 2 37 114 Unused amounts reversed 10 54 1 1 66 Utilised in the year 7 28 26 31 14 13 20 139 Actuarial losses recorded in other comprehensive loss 9 9 Transfers to disposal group classi ed as held for sale 1 1 Transfer between categories 3 5 4 4 8 1 At 31 March 2012 125 309 265 217 71 214 72 1,273 Exchange adjustments 4 16 3 1 3 1 1 27 Charged credited to the income statement Additional provision in year 1 30 21 19 14 2 18 105 Unused amounts reversed 25 5 1 31 Utilised in the year 4 43 7 110 13 56 19 252 Actuarial losses recorded in other comprehensive loss 21 21 Transfer from current tax liabilities 7 7 Transfer between categories 7 10 6 9 1 1 At 31 March 2013 125 301 248 114 78 160 70 1,096 2013 2012 US$m US$m Analysed as: Current 558 704 Non-current 538 569 1,096 1,273 1 As restated see note 28.
Demerged entities and litigation During the year ended 31 March 1998 the group recognised a provision of US$73 million for the disposal of certain demerged entities inrelation to equity injections which were not regarded as recoverable, as well as potential liabilities arising on warranties and the sale agreements.
During the year ended 31 March 2013 US$1 million 2012: US$2 million of this provision was utilised in regard to costs associated with SAB Ltds previously disposed of remaining retail interests.
The residual balance of US$10 million relates mainly to the disposal of OK Bazaars 1929 Ltd to Shoprite Holdings Ltd Shoprite.
As disclosed in previous annual reports, a number of claims were made by Shoprite in relation to the valuation of the net assets of OK Bazaars at the time of the sale and for alleged breaches by SAB Ltd of warranties contained in the sale agreements.
These claims are being contested by SAB Ltd.
There are US$115 million 2012: US$90 million of provisions in respect of outstanding litigation within various operations, based on managements expectation that the outcomes of these disputes are expected to be resolved within the forthcoming five years.
While provision for all claims has already been made, the actual outcome of the disputes and the timing of the resolution cannot be estimated by the directors at this time.
The further information ordinarily required by IAS 37, Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets has not been disclosed on the grounds that it can be expected to seriously prejudice the outcome of the disputes.
Post-retirement bene ts The provision for post-retirement bene ts represents the provision for medical bene ts for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, for post-retirement medical and life insurance bene ts for eligible employees and their dependants in North America and Europe, medical and other bene ts in Latin America, and pension provisions for employees in North America, Latin America, Europe, Africa and AsiaPaci c. The principal assumptions on which these provisions are based are disclosed in note 31.
140 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 24.
Provisions continued Taxation-related The group has recognised various provisions in relation to taxation exposures it believes may arise.
The provisions principally relate to non-corporate taxation and interest and penalties on corporate taxation in respect of a number of group companies.
Any settlement in respectof these amounts will occur as and when the assessments are nalised with the respective tax authorities.
Restructuring This includes the remaining provision for restructuring costs related to Europe which management expects to be utilised within four years, and provisions for costs related to pre-existing demerger costs and demerger warranties in Fosters in Australia which are expected to be utilised within one year.
Payroll-related This principally relates to employee long service awards of US$17 million 2012: US$19million within South Africa and US$3 million 2012:US$15 million within Latin America, which are expected to be utilised over time when service awards fall due.
Payroll-related provisions also include US$37 million 2012: US$32 million, restated within Asia Paci c relating to employee entitlement provisions, and US$18 million 2012: US$4 million of cash-settled share-based payment provisions within Corporate which are expected to be utilised within one year.
Onerous contracts This includes provisions for unfavourable supply contracts for malt, glass, aluminium cans and concentrated fruit juice for non-alcoholic beverages, as well as provisions for surplus property leases in Australia which management expects to be utilised within seven years.
Other provisions Included within other provisions are environmental provisions and other provisions.
These are primarily expected to be utilised within four years.
Share capital 2013 2012 US$m US$m Group and company Called up, allotted and fully paid share capital 1,669,731,799 ordinary shares of 10 US cents each 2012: 1,664,323,483 167 166 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each 2012: 50,000 167 166 Ordinary shares of Deferred Nominal 10 US cents shares of value each 1 each US$m At 1 April 2011 1,659,040,014 50,000 166 Issue of shares share incentive plans 5,283,469 At 31 March 2012 1,664,323,483 50,000 166 Issue of shares share incentive plans 5,408,316 1 At 31 March 2013 1,669,731,799 50,000 167 Changes to authorised share capital With effect from 1 October 2009 the company adopted new articles of association which removed any previous limit on the authorised share capital.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot because allotment authority continues to be required under the Companies Act 2006, save in respect of employee share plans.
Changes to issued share capital During the year the company issued 5,408,316 2012: 5,283,469 new ordinary shares of 10 US cents to satisfy the exercise of options granted under the various share incentive plans, for consideration of US$102 million 2012: US$96 million.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued Rights and restrictions relating to share capital Convertible participating shares Altria is entitled to require the company to convert its ordinary shares into convertible participating shares so as to ensure that Altrias voting shareholding does not exceed 24.99% of the total voting shareholding.
If such an event occurs, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares in all respects and no action shall betaken by the company in relation to ordinary shares unless the same action is taken in respect of the convertible participating shares.
On distribution of the pro ts whether by cash dividend, dividend in specie, scrip dividend, capitalisation issue or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares.
On a return of capital whether winding-up or otherwise, the convertible participating shares will rank pari passu with the ordinary shares.
Altria is entitled to vote its convertible participating shares at general meetings of the company on a poll on the basis of one-tenth of a vote for every convertible participating share on all resolutions other than a resolution: i proposed by any person other than Altria, to wind-up the company: ii proposed by any person other than Altria, to appoint an administrator or to approve any arrangement with the companys creditors: iii proposed by the board, to sell all or substantially all of the undertaking of the company: or iv proposed by any person other than Altria, to alter any of the class rights attaching to the convertible participating shares or to approve the creation of any new class of shares, in which case Altria shall be entitled on a poll to vote on the resolution on the basis of one vote for each convertible participating share, but, for the purposes of any resolution other than a resolution mentioned in iv above, the convertible participating shares shall be treated as being of the same class as the ordinary shares and no separate meeting or resolution of the holders of the convertible participating shares shall be required to be convened or passed.
Upon a transfer of convertible participating shares by Altria other than to an af liate, such convertible participating shares shall convert into ordinary shares.
Altria is entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if: i a third party has made a takeover offer for the company and if such offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects it would result in the voting shareholding of the third party being more than 30% of the total voting shareholding: and ii Altria has communicated to the company in writing its intention not itself to make an offer competing with such third party offer, provided that the conversion date shall be no earlier than the date on which the third partys offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects.
Altria is entitled to require the company to convert its convertible participating shares into ordinary shares if the voting shareholding of a third party should be more than 24.99%, provided that: i the number of ordinary shares held by Altria following such conversion shall be limited to one ordinary share more than the number of ordinary shares held by the third party: and ii such conversion shall at no time result in Altrias voting shareholding being equal to or greater than the voting shareholding which would require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code.
If Altria wishes to acquire additional ordinary shares other than pursuant to a pre-emptive issue of new ordinary shares or with the prior approval of the board, Altria shall first convert into ordinary shares the lesser of: i such number of convertible participating shares as would result in Altrias voting shareholding being such percentage as would, in the event of Altria subsequently acquiring one additional ordinary share, require Altria to make a mandatory offer in terms of rule 9 of the City Code: and ii all of its remaining convertible participating shares.
142 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25.
Share capital continued The company must use its best endeavours to procure that the ordinary shares arising on conversion of the convertible participating shares areadmitted to the Of cial List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed securities, admitted to listing and trading on the JSE Ltd, and admitted to listing and trading on any other stock exchange upon which the ordinary shares are from time to time listed andtraded, but no admission to listing or trading need be sought for the convertible participating shares whilst they remain convertible participating shares.
Deferred shares The deferred shares do not carry any voting rights and do not entitle their holders to receive any dividends or other distributions.
In the event of a winding-up deferred shareholders would receive no more than the nominal value.
Deferred shares represent the only non-equity share capital of the group.
Share-based payments The group operates various share incentive plans.
The share incentives outstanding are summarised as follows.
2013 2012 Scheme Number Number GBP share options 17,809,920 16,622,334 ZAR share options 12,939,245 13,024,503 GBP stock appreciation rights SARs 1,955,529 2,820,144 GBP performance share awards 7,505,723 6,880,114 GBP value share awards 11,721,564 6,877,784 GBP cash settled awards 335,940 1 Total share incentives outstanding 51,931,981 46,560,819 1 Total share incentives outstanding exclude shares relating to the BBBEE scheme.
Further details relating to all of the share incentive schemes can be found in the directors remuneration report on pages 66 to 85.
The exercise prices of incentives outstanding at 31 March 2013 ranged from 0 to 28.28 and ZAR53.30 to ZAR401.06 2012: 0 to 25.48 and ZAR53.30 to ZAR290.23.
The movement in share awards outstanding is summarised in the following tables.
GBP share options GBP share options include share options granted under the Executive Share Option Plan 2008, the Approved Executive Share Option Plan 2008, the Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme, the Approved Executive Share Option Scheme and the International Employee Share Scheme.
No further grants can be made under the now closed Executive Share Option No.
2 Scheme, the Approved Executive Share Option Scheme, or the International Employee Share Scheme: although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of options GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2011 15,088,057 13.46 Granted 4,417,346 22.51 6.47 Lapsed 679,700 18.88 Exercised 2,203,369 11.44 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 16,622,334 15.91 Granted 4,637,730 24.01 5.85 Lapsed 583,250 20.28 Exercised 2,866,894 12.52 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 17,809,920 18.42 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share capital continued ZAR share options Share options designated in ZAR include share options granted under the South African Executive Share Option Plan 2008 and the Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme South Africa.
No further grants can be made under the Mirror Executive Share Purchase Scheme SouthAfrica although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of options ZAR ZAR Outstanding at 1 April 2011 13,686,079 169.64 Granted 2,943,373 283.07 105.43 Lapsed 524,849 218.17 Exercised 3,080,100 138.30 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 13,024,503 200.73 Granted 2,912,565 381.88 134.46 Lapsed 456,401 263.02 Exercised 2,541,422 154.55 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 12,939,245 248.38 GBP SARs GBP SARs include stock appreciation rights granted under the Stock Appreciation Rights Plan 2008 and the International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme.
No further grants can be made under the now closed International Employee Stock Appreciation Rights Scheme, although outstanding grants may still be exercised until they reach their expiry date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of SARs GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2011 3,575,370 9.72 Granted 64,900 22.50 6.47 Lapsed 26,583 11.44 Exercised 793,543 8.85 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 2,820,144 10.25 Granted 60,600 23.95 5.81 Lapsed 9,600 15.94 Exercised 915,615 8.66 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 1,955,529 11.39 GBP performance share awards GBP performance share awards include awards made under the Executive Share Award Plan 2008, the Performance Share Award Scheme and the International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme.
No further awards can be made under the Performance Share Award Scheme and the International Performance Share Award Sub-Scheme, although outstanding awards remain and will vest, subject to the achievement oftheir respective performance conditions on their vesting date.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of awards GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2011 7,364,124 Granted 2,208,640 20.46 Lapsed 278,760 Released to participants 2,413,890 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 6,880,114 Granted 3,471,222 22.32 Lapsed 254,284 Released to participants 2,591,329 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 7,505,723 144 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25.
Share capital continued GBP value share awards The 4,843,780 2012: 4,034,340 value share awards granted during the year ended 31 March 2013 represent the theoretical maximum number of awards that could possibly vest in the future, although in practice it is extremely unlikely that this number of awards would be released.
Weighted Number of Weighted average fair value shares Theoretical average value at per 10 million of maximum exercise price grant date additional value shares at cap GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2011 1,022 3,168,200 Granted 1,205 4,034,340 7.27 Lapsed 97 324,756 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 2,130 6,877,784 Granted 1,270 4,843,780 7.02 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 3,400 11,721,564 GBP cash-settled awards GBP share incentives included under the Associated Companies Cash Award Plan 2011.
Weighted Weighted average average fair exercise value at Number price grant date of awards GBP GBP Outstanding at 1 April 2011 Granted 335,940 20.35 Outstanding at 31 March 2012 335,940 Released to participants 335,940 Outstanding at 31 March 2013 Outstanding share incentives The following table summarises information about share incentives outstanding at 31 March.
Weighted Weighted average average exercise exercise Number price Number price 2013 2013 2012 2012 GBP share options 5,792,390 11.27 5,103,986 10.46 ZAR share options 4,915,057 164.84 5,004,479 140.97 GBP SARs 1,783,429 10.35 2,705,344 9.80 146 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 25.
Share capital continued Share incentives exercised or vested The weighted average market price of the groups shares at the date of exercise or vesting for share incentives exercised or vested during the year were: Weighted Weighted average market average market Number price Number price 2013 2013 2012 2012 Share incentives designated in GBP 6,709,778 26.81 5,410,802 23.01 Share incentives designated in ZAR 2,541,422 385.70 3,080,100 278.19 Total share incentives exercised or vested during the year 9,251,200 8,490,902 Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE scheme On 9 June 2010 the initial allocation of participation rights was made in relation to the BBBEE scheme in South Africa.
A total of 46.2 million new shares in The South African Breweries Pty Limited SAB, representing 8.45% of SABs enlarged issued share capital, were issued.
The shares in SAB will be exchanged at the end of the estimated ten-year scheme term for shares in SABMiller plc based on a repurchase formula linked, inter alia, to the operating performance of SAB.
No performance conditions and exercise prices are attached to these shares, although the employee component has a four-year vesting period.
The weighted average fair value of each SAB share at the grant date was ZAR40.
Weighted average fair value assumptions The fair value of services received in return for share awards granted is measured by reference to the fair value of share awards granted.
The estimate of the fair value of the services received is measured based on a binomial model approach except for the awards under Performance Share Award schemes, the Executive Share Award Plan 2008 including value share awards and the BBBEE scheme which have been valued using Monte Carlo simulations, and awards under the cash settled scheme which have been valued based on an analytic approach.
The Monte Carlo simulation methodology is necessary for valuing share-based payments with TSR performance hurdles.
This is achieved by projecting SABMiller plcs share price forwards, together with those of companies in the same comparator group, over the vesting period and or life of the awards after considering their respective volatilities.
The following weighted average assumptions were used in these option pricing models during the year.
2013 2012 1 Share price South African share option scheme ZAR 379.21 280.49 All other schemes 23.76 22.33 1 Exercise price South African share option scheme ZAR 381.88 283.07 All other schemes 8.71 9.35 2 Expected volatility all schemes % 26.1 23.1 Dividend yield all schemes % 2.4 2.3 Annual forfeiture rate South African share option scheme % 5.0 5.0 All other schemes % 3.0 3.0 Risk-free interest rate South African share option scheme % 7.3 7.9 All other schemes % 1.0 2.3 1 The calculation is based on the weighted fair value of issues made during the year.
2 Expected volatility is calculated by assessing the historical share price data in the United Kingdom and South Africa since May 2002.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Retained earnings and other reserves a.
Retained earnings Treasury and Retained EBT shares earnings Total US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 657 9,648 8,991 Pro t for the year 4,221 4,221 Other comprehensive loss 119 119 Actuarial losses taken to other comprehensive loss 9 9 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive loss 181 181 Deferred tax credit on items taken to other comprehensive loss 71 71 Dividends paid 1,324 1,324 Dilution of non-controlling interests as a result of business combinations 5 5 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 52 52 Buyout of non-controlling interests 7 7 Utilisation of EBT shares 48 48 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 158 158 At 31 March 2012 661 12,524 11,863 Pro t for the year 3,274 3,274 Other comprehensive loss 46 46 Actuarial losses taken to other comprehensive loss 21 21 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive loss 53 53 Deferred tax credit on items taken to other comprehensive loss 28 28 Dividends paid 1,517 1,517 Payment for purchase of own shares for share trusts 53 53 Utilisation of EBT shares 71 71 Credit entry relating to share-based payments 189 189 At 31 March 2013 643 14,353 13,710 The groups retained earnings includes amounts of US$734 million 2012: US$709 million, the distribution of which is limited by statutory or other restrictions.
Treasury and EBT shares reserve On 26 February 2009 77,368,338 SABMiller plc non-voting convertible shares were converted into ordinary shares and then acquired by th e company to be held as treasury shares.
While the purchase price for each share was 10.54, the whole amount of the consideration was paid between group companies.
On 15 February 2010, 5,300,000 of these treasury shares were transferred to the EBT for nil consideration.
On 26 March 2013 an additional 4,600,000 treasury shares were transferred to the EBT at no gain or loss to the group.
These shares will be used to satisfy awards outstanding under the various share incentive plans.
There are two employee bene t trusts currently in operation, being the SABMiller Employees Bene t Trust the EBT and the SABMiller Associated Companies Employees Bene t Trust the AC-EBT.
The EBT holds shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of the various share incentive plans, further details of which are disclosed in the directors remuneration report.
At 31 March 2013 the EBT held 8,339,106 shares 2012: 5,605,746 shares which cost US$126 million 2012: US$98 million and had a market value of US$438 million 2012: US$225 million.
These shares have been treated as a deduction in arriving at shareholders funds.
The EBT used funds provided by SABMiller plc to purchase such of the shares as were purchased in the market.
The costs of funding and administering the scheme are charged to the income statement in the period to which they relate.
The AC-EBT holds shares in SABMiller plc for the purposes of providing share incentives for employees of companies in which SABMiller has a signi cant economic and strategic interest but over which it does not have management control.
Further details on the AC-EBT are disclosed in the directors remuneration report.
At 31 March 2013 the AC-EBT held no 2012: 335,940 shares which cost US$nil 2012: US$11 million and had a market value of US$nil 2012: US$13 million.
The AC-EBT used funds provided by Gardwell Ltd, a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of SABMiller plc, to purchase the shares.
Shares currently held in each EBT rank pari passu with all other ordinary shares, but in both cases the trustees have elected to waive dividends and to decline from voting shares, except in circumstances where they may be holding shares bene cially owned by a participant.
There were no bene cially owned shares in either EBT as at 31 March 2013 2012: nil.
148 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 26.
Retained earnings and other reserves continued b.
Other reserves The analysis of other reserves is as follows.
Foreign Net currency Cash ow investment Available translation hedging hedging for sale reserve reserve reserve reserve Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2011 2,183 35 340 3 1,881 Currency translation differences 137 137 Net investment hedges 1 1 Cash ow hedges 6 6 Deferred tax on items taken to other comprehensive loss 30 30 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive loss 75 75 At 31 March 2012 2,320 4 341 3 1,978 Currency translation differences 696 696 Net investment hedges 63 63 Cash ow hedges 5 5 Available for sale investments 1 1 Deferred tax on items taken to other comprehensive loss 6 6 Share of associates and joint ventures other comprehensive loss income 23 6 17 At 31 March 2013 1,624 26 278 8 1,328 Foreign currency translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all translation exchange differences arising on the retranslation of opening net assets together with differences between income statements translated at average and closing rates.
Reconciliation of pro t for the year to net cash generated from operations 2013 2012 US$m US$m Pro t for the year 3,511 4,477 Taxation 1,201 1,126 Share of post-tax results of associates and joint ventures 1,244 1,152 Finance income 682 531 Finance costs 1,417 1,093 Operating pro t 4,203 5,013 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 641 672 Containers 226 237 Container breakages, shrinkages and write-offs 38 34 Pro t on disposal of businesses 79 1,258 Gain on remeasurement of existing interest in joint venture on acquisition 66 Pro t on disposal of investment in associate 103 Gain on dilution of investment in associate 4 Loss pro t on disposal of property, plant and equipment 13 15 Amortisation of intangible assets 450 273 Impairment of goodwill 11 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 39 Impairment of working capital balances 31 16 Amortisation of advances to customers 45 24 Unrealised net gain from fair value hedges 20 Dividends received from other investments 1 1 Charge with respect to share options 184 132 Charge with respect to Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme 17 29 Other non-cash movements 56 12 Net cash generated from operations before working capital movements EBITDA 5,758 4,979 Increase in inventories 14 45 Increase in trade and other receivables 107 25 Increase in trade and other payables 82 374 Decrease in provisions 177 46 Increase in post-retirement bene t provisions 12 Net cash generated from operations 5,554 5,237 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27a.
Reconciliation of pro t for the year to net cash generated from operations continued Pro t for the year and cash generated from operations before working capital movements includes cash ows relating to exceptional items of US$191 million 2012: US$308 million, comprising US$140 million 2012: US$228 million in respect of business capability programme costs, US$51 million 2012: US$50 million in respect of integration and restructuring costs, US$nil 2012: US$72 million in respect of transactionrelated costs, partially offset by US$nil 2012: US$42 million in respect of a litigation-related credit.
The following table provides a reconciliation of EBITDA to adjusted EBITDA.
2013 2012 US$m US$m EBITDA 5,758 4,979 Cash exceptional items 191 308 Dividends received from MillerCoors 886 896 Adjusted EBITDA 6,835 6,183 27b.
Reconciliation of net cash generated from operating activities to free cash ow 2013 2012 US$m US$m Net cash generated from operating activities 4,101 3,937 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 1,335 1,473 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 30 116 Purchase of intangible assets 144 166 Proceeds from sale of intangible assets 4 Investments in joint ventures 272 288 Investments in associates 23 Repayment of investments by associates 14 Dividends received from joint ventures 886 896 Dividends received from associates 113 120 Dividends received from other investments 1 1 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 131 109 Free cash ow 3,230 3,048 27c.
Analysis of net debt Cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet are reconciled to cash and cash equivalents on the cash ow statement as follows.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents balance sheet 2,171 745 Overdrafts 212 138 Overdrafts of disposal group classi ed as held for sale 1 Cash and cash equivalents cash ow statement 1,959 606 150 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 27c.
Analysis of net debt continued Net debt is analysed as follows.
Major non-cash transactions 2013 Major non-cash transactions in the year included the following.
The additional pro t realised on the disposal in the prior year of the groups Angolan operations in Africa.
2012 Major non-cash transactions in the year included the following.
The disposal of the groups Angolan operations, Coca-Cola Bottling Luanda SARL, Coca-Cola Bottling Sul fide Angola SARL, Empresa fide Cervejas NGola Norte SA, and its interest in Empresa fide Cervejas NGola SARL, in Africa in exchange for a 27.5% interest in BIH Angola.
The contribution of the groups Russian beer business, SABMiller RUS LLC, and Ukrainian beer business, PJSC Miller Brands Ukraine, to Anadolu Efes in exchange for a 24% economic interest in the enlarged Anadolu Efes group.
The remeasurement of the groups existing 50% interest in the Paci c Beverages joint venture to fair value on the acquisition of the remaining50% interest.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Restatement of the balance sheet at 31 March 2012 The initial accounting under IFRS 3, Business Combinations, for the Fosters, the Paci c Beverages and the International Breweries acquisitions had not been completed as at 31 March 2012.
During the year ended 31 March 2013 adjustments to provisional fair values inrespect of these acquisitions were made.
As a result comparative information for the year ended 31 March 2012 has been presented in theconsolidated financial statements as if the adjustments to provisional fair values had been made from the respective transaction dates.
Thefair value exercises in respect of these acquisitions are now complete.
The following table reconciles the impact on the balance sheet reported as at 31 March 2012 to the comparative balance sheet presented in the consolidated financial statements.
No material adjustments to the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2012 have been required as a result of the adjustments to provisional fair values.
Adjustments At 31 March At 31 March to provisional 2012 2012 fair values As restated US$m US$m US$m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 20,128 43 20,171 Intangible assets 9,901 57 9,958 Property, plant and equipment 9,299 137 9,162 Investments in joint ventures 5,520 5,520 Investments in associates 4,946 126 5,072 Available for sale investments 30 30 Derivative financial instruments 732 732 Trade and other receivables 136 136 Deferred tax assets 117 117 Loan participation deposit 100 100 50,909 89 50,998 Current assets Inventories 1,255 7 1,248 Trade and other receivables 2,156 48 2,204 Current tax assets 482 147 629 Derivative financial instruments 24 24 Available for sale investments 1 1 Cash and cash equivalents 745 745 4,663 188 4,851 Assets of disposal group classi ed as held for sale 79 79 4,742 188 4,930 Total assets 55,651 277 55,928 Liabilities Current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 40 40 Borrowings 1,062 1,062 Trade and other payables 4,054 73 4,127 Current tax liabilities 910 413 1,323 Provisions 717 13 704 6,783 473 7,256 Liabilities of disposal group classi ed as held for sale 7 7 6,790 473 7,263 Non-current liabilities Derivative financial instruments 69 69 Borrowings 18,164 18,164 Trade and other payables 112 112 Deferred tax liabilities 3,917 198 3,719 Provisions 586 17 569 22,848 215 22,633 Total liabilities 29,638 258 29,896 Net assets 26,013 19 26,032 Total equity 26,013 19 26,032 152 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 29.
Acquisitions and disposals The group completed the acquisition of a 60% interest in Darbrew Limited in Tanzania in March 2013 for total cash consideration of US$6million.
The business combination has been accounted for using the acquisition method.
The residual value over the net assets acquiredis recognised as goodwill of US$3 million in the financial statements.
Disposals On 7 September 2012 the group completed the disposal of Fosters interests in its Fijian beverage operations, Fosters Group Paci c Limited, and on 28 September 2012 the group completed the disposal of Fosters soft drink assets, both to Coca-Cola Amatil Limited CCA.
There was no gain or loss on disposal.
Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases at 31 March are as follows.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Land and buildings Within one year 65 65 Later than one year and less than five years 152 171 After five years 33 42 250 278 Plant, vehicles and systems Within one year 54 55 Later than one year and less than five years 129 126 After five years 91 87 274 268 b.
Other commitments 2013 2012 US$m US$m Capital commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure for property, plant and equipment 239 277 Contracts placed for future expenditure for intangible assets 3 1 Share of capital commitments of joint ventures 48 44 Other commitments not provided in the financial information Contracts placed for future expenditure 2,632 3,164 Share of joint ventures other commitments 379 512 Contracts placed for future expenditure in 2013 primarily relate to minimum purchase commitments for raw materials and packaging materials, which are principally due between 2013 and 2019.
Additionally, as part of the business capability programme the group has entered into contracts for the provision of IT, communications and consultancy services and in relation to which the group had commitments of US$120million at 31 March 2013 2012: US$193 million.
The groups share of joint ventures other commitments primarily relate to MillerCoors various long-term non-cancellable advertising and promotion commitments.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Commitments, contingencies and guarantees continued c. Contingent liabilities and guarantees 2013 2012 US$m US$m 1 Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of trade loans 2 4 Share of joint ventures contingent liabilities 4 2 Litigation 15 23 Other contingent liabilities 2 9 19 40 1 Guarantees to third parties provided in respect of trade loans These primarily relate to guarantees given by Grolsch to banks in relation to loans taken out by trade customers.
2 Litigation The group has a number of activities in a wide variety of geographic areas and is subject to certain legal claims incidental to its operations.
In the opinion of the directors, after taking appropriate legal advice, these claims are not expected to have, either individually or in aggregate, a material adverse effect upon the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
These include claims made by certain former employees in Ecuador arising out of events which took place before the groups investment in Ecuador in 2005, in respect of which, based on legal advice that they have no valid legal basis, the directors have determined that no provision is required and that they should continue to be contested.
Other SABMiller and Altria entered into a tax matters agreement the Agreement on 30 May 2002, to regulate the conduct of tax matters between them with regard to the acquisition of Miller and to allocate responsibility for contingent tax costs.
SABMiller has agreed to indemnify Altria against any taxes, losses, liabilities and costs that Altria incurs arising out of or in connection with a breach by SABMiller of any representation, agreement or covenant in the Agreement, subject to certain exceptions.
The group has exposures to various environmental risks.
Although it is dif cult to predict the groups liability with respect to these risks, future payments, if any, would be made over a period of time in amounts that would not be material to the groups financial position, except insofar as already provided in the consolidated financial statements.
Pensions and post-retirement bene ts The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout the world.
These schemes have been designed and are administered in accordance with local conditions and practices in the countries concerned and include both fide ned contribution and fide ned bene t schemes.
The majority of the schemes are funded and the schemes assets are held independently of the groups nances.
The assets of the schemes do not include any of the groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by or other assets used by the group.
Pension and post-retirement bene t costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent professionally quali ed actuaries.
Generally, the projected unit method is applied to measure the fide ned bene t scheme liabilities.
The group also provides medical bene ts, which are mainly unfunded, for retired employees and their dependants in South Africa, the Netherlands and Latin America.
The total pension and post-retirement medical bene t costs recognised in the income statement, and related net liabilities on the balance sheet are as follows.
2013 2012 US$m US$m fide ned contribution scheme costs 110 97 fide ned bene t pension plan costs 18 15 Post-retirement medical and other bene t costs 11 13 Accruals for fide ned contribution plans balance sheet 7 3 Provisions for fide ned bene t pension plans balance sheet 206 197 Provisions for other post-retirement bene ts balance sheet 95 112 154 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31.
Pensions and post-retirement bene ts continued The group operates various fide ned contribution and fide ned bene t schemes.
Details of the main fide ned bene t schemes are provided below.
Latin America pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout Latin America.
Details of the major scheme are provided below.
The Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan is an unfunded scheme of the fide ned bene t type and covers all salaried and hourly employees in Colombia who are not covered by social security or who have at least 10 years of service prior to 1 January 1967.
The plan is nanced entirely through company reserves and there are no external assets.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Colombian Labour Code Pension Plan was carried out by independent professionally quali ed actuaries at 28 February 2013 using the projected unit credit method.
All salaried employees are now covered by social security or private pension fund provisions.
The principal economic assumptions used in the preparationof the pension valuations are shown below and take into consideration changes in the Colombian economy.
Grolsch pension scheme The Grolsch pension plan, named Stichting Pensioenfonds van fide Grolsche Bierbrouwerij, is a funded scheme of the fide ned bene t type, based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The latest valuation of the Grolsch pension fund was carried outat31 March 2013 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Other Details of other fide ned bene t pension schemes are provided below.
Carlton & United Breweries pension scheme The Carlton & United Breweries pension fund, named AusBev Superannuation Fund, provides accumulation style and fide ned bene ts to the employees.
The company funds the fide ned bene ts, administration and insurance costs of the fund as a bene t to employees who elect to be members of this fund.
The latest valuation of the Carlton & United Breweries pension fund was carried out at 30 June 2011 by an independent actuary using the projected unit credit method.
The valuation update for the fund was carried out at 31 March 2013 by an independent actuary.
The fide ned bene ts section is now closed to new members.
South Africa pension schemes The group operates a number of pension schemes throughout South Africa.
Details of the major schemes are provided below.
The ABI Pension Fund, Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund are funded schemes of the fide ned bene t type based on average salary with assets held in separately administered funds.
The surplus apportionment schemes for the ABI Pension Fund, the Suncrush Pension Fund and Suncrush Retirement Fund have been approved by the Financial Services Board.
The active and pensioner liabilities in respect of the ABI Pension Fund and the Suncrush Retirement Fund have been settled.
The only liabilities are in respect of former members, the surplus apportionment scheme and unclaimed bene ts.
Once the surplus liabilities have been settled, the Funds will be deregistered and liquidated.
The latest valuation of the South African pension schemes was carried out at 31 March 2013 by an independent actuary.
The Section 14 transfer of the Suncrush Pension Fund members to the SAB Staff Provident Fund was annulled by the Financial Services Board on 24 August 2011.
The Rules of the Fund have been amended to allow for paid-up bene ts for each of the members.
This would allow for each member to be paid their bene t, valued as at 1 July 2005, upon their exit.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Pensions and post-retirement bene ts continued Principal actuarial assumptions at 31 March expressed as weighted averages Medical and other fide ned bene t pension plans post-retirement bene ts Latin America Grolsch Other South Africa Other At 31 March 2013 Discount rate % 5.0 3.8 4.6 8.8 4.9 Salary in ation % 2.5 2.0 3.9 Pension in ation % 2.5 0.7 3.2 Healthcare cost in ation % 7.5 2.3 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 55 65 62 63 57 Females 50 65 61 63 53 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 27 21 22 16 25 Females 36 24 23 20 32 Retiring in 20 years: Males 27 23 22 16 25 Females 36 25 23 20 32 At 31 March 2012 Discount rate % 7.5 4.8 6.0 9.3 7.0 Salary in ation % 3.5 2.0 3.8 Pension in ation % 3.5 2.0 3.2 Healthcare cost in ation % 7.8 3.0 Mortality rate assumptions Retirement age: Males 55 65 66 63 57 Females 50 65 61 63 53 Life expectations on retirement age: Retiring today: Males 27 21 22 16 24 Females 36 24 23 20 31 Retiring in 20 years: Males 27 23 22 16 24 Females 36 25 23 20 32 The present value of fide ned bene t pension plan and post-employment medical bene t liabilities are as follows.
Medical and other fide ned bene t pension plans post-retirement bene ts Latin South America Grolsch Other Total Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Present value of scheme liabilities at 1 April 2011 175 305 48 528 71 43 114 Portion of fide ned bene t obligation that is unfunded 175 13 188 71 43 114 Portion of fide ned bene t obligation that is partly or wholly funded 305 35 340 Bene ts paid 18 11 15 44 4 4 Contributions paid by plan participants 3 3 2 2 Current service cost 4 2 6 2 1 3 Interest costs 13 15 5 33 6 4 10 Actuarial losses gains 6 21 13 40 1 1 Reversal of unused provision 10 10 Acquisitions 52 52 Exchange adjustments 6 18 3 15 10 1 9 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2012 172 319 102 593 66 46 112 Portion of fide ned bene t obligation that is unfunded 172 13 185 66 46 112 Portion of fide ned bene t obligation that is partly or wholly funded 319 89 408 Bene ts paid 17 11 9 37 5 5 Contributions paid by plan participants 3 3 2 2 Current service cost 1 4 3 8 1 1 2 Interest costs 12 14 4 30 6 3 9 Actuarial losses gains 17 19 2 14 5 9 Settlements and curtailments 3 3 Exchange adjustments 4 12 6 22 10 2 12 Present value of scheme liabilities at 31 March 2013 181 298 93 572 47 48 95 Portion of fide ned bene t obligation that is unfunded 181 12 193 47 48 95 Portion of fide ned bene t obligation that is partly or wholly funded 298 81 379 156 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31.
Pensions and post-retirement bene ts continued The fair value reconciliations of opening plan assets to closing plan assets, on an aggregated basis, are as follows.
fide ned bene t pension plans Grolsch Other Total US$m US$m US$m Plan assets at 1 April 2011 333 52 385 Expected return on plan assets 16 8 24 Bene ts paid 11 14 25 Employer contributions employer assets recognised 9 5 4 Actuarial gains losses 26 3 23 Acquisitions 51 51 Exchange adjustments 21 5 26 Plan assets at 31 March 2012 352 84 436 Expected return on plan assets 15 5 20 Bene ts paid 11 8 19 Employer contributions 17 2 19 Actuarial gains 18 18 Settlements 3 3 Exchange adjustments 14 4 18 Plan assets at 31 March 2013 377 76 453 The fair value of assets in pension schemes and the expected rates of return were.
Latin America Grolsch Other Total LongLongLongterm term term rate of rate of rate of return return return US$m % US$m % US$m % US$m At 31 March 2013 Equities 126 7.0 20 8.0 146 Bonds 235 3.0 21 8.0 256 Cash 31 7.0 31 Property and other 16 7.0 4 9.0 20 Total fair value of assets 377 76 453 Present value of scheme liabilities 181 298 93 572 fide cit surplus in the scheme 181 79 17 119 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 79 8 87 Pension liability recognised 181 25 206 At 31 March 2012 Equities 102 7.0 31 1.0 133 Bonds 229 4.0 14 9.0 243 Cash 34 6.0 34 Property and other 21 7.0 5 9.0 26 Total fair value of assets 352 84 436 Present value of scheme liabilities 172 319 102 593 fide cit surplus in the scheme 172 33 18 157 Unrecognised pension asset due to limit 33 7 40 Pension liability recognised 172 25 197 The expected returns on plan assets is determined by considering the expected returns available on each major asset class and the asset mix underlying the current investment policy.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Pensions and post-retirement bene ts continued The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows.
Medical and other fide ned bene t pension plans post-retirement bene ts Latin South America Grolsch Other Total Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2013 Present value of scheme liabilities 181 298 93 572 47 48 95 Fair value of plan assets 377 76 453 181 79 17 119 47 48 95 Unrecognised assets due to limit 79 8 87 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 181 25 206 47 48 95 At 31 March 2012 Present value of scheme liabilities 172 319 102 593 66 46 112 Fair value of plan assets 352 84 436 172 33 18 157 66 46 112 Unrecognised assets due to limit 33 7 40 Net liability recognised on balance sheet 172 25 197 66 46 112 In respect of fide ned bene t pensions plans in South Africa, which are included in Other, the pension asset recognised is limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
Pension fund assets have been set equal to nil as the surplus apportionment exercise required in terms of the South African legislation has not yet beencompleted.
The pension asset recognised in respect of Grolsch is limited to the extent that the employer is able to recover a surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.
The limit has been set equal to nil due to the terms of the pension agreement with the pension fund.
The amounts recognised in net operating expenses in the income statement are as follows.
Medical and other fide ned bene t pension plans post-retirement bene ts Latin South America Grolsch Other Total Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2013 Current service cost 1 4 3 8 1 1 2 Interest costs 12 14 4 30 6 3 9 Expected return on plan assets 15 5 20 13 3 2 18 7 4 11 At 31 March 2012 Current service cost 4 2 6 2 1 3 Interest costs 13 15 5 33 6 4 10 Expected return on plan assets 16 8 24 13 3 1 15 8 5 13 158 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 31.
Pensions and post-retirement bene ts continued The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows.
Medical and other fide ned bene t pension plans post-retirement bene ts Latin South America Grolsch Other Total Africa Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 31 March 2013 Actual return on plan assets 33 5 38 Less: expected return on plan assets 15 5 20 Experience gains arising on scheme assets 18 18 scheme liabilities 19 1 20 Changes in actuarial assumptions 17 1 18 14 5 9 Unrecognised gains due to limit 49 1 50 17 12 1 30 14 5 9 At 31 March 2012 Actual return on plan assets 42 5 47 Less: expected return on plan assets 16 8 24 Experience gains losses arising on scheme assets 26 3 23 scheme liabilities 21 10 31 1 1 Changes in actuarial assumptions 6 3 9 1 1 Unrecognised gains losses due to limit 6 14 8 6 1 2 9 1 1 The cumulative amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows.
2013 2012 US$m US$m Cumulative actuarial losses recognised at beginning of year 212 203 Net actuarial losses recognised in the year 21 9 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised at end of year 233 212 History of actuarial gains and losses 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Experience gains losses of plan assets 18 23 14 33 77 Percentage of plan assets 4% 5% 4% 10% 26% Experience gains losses of scheme liabilities 20 30 16 44 28 Percentage of scheme liabilities 3% 4% 2% 7% 6% Fair value of plan assets 453 436 385 344 299 Present value of scheme liabilities 667 705 642 612 499 fide cit in the schemes 214 269 257 268 200 Unrecognised assets due to limit 87 40 53 22 17 Net liability recognised in balance sheet 301 309 310 290 217 Contributions expected to be paid into the groups major fide ned bene t schemes during the annual period after 31 March 2013 are US$25million.
A 1% increase and a 1% decrease in the assumed healthcare cost of in ation will have the following effect on the groups major postemployment medical bene ts.
2013 Increase Decrease US$m US$m Current service costs Interest costs 1 1 Accumulated post-employment medical bene t costs 9 7 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Parties with signi cant in uence over the group: Altria Group, Inc. Altria and the Santo Domingo Group SDG Altria is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of its 26.8% equity shareholding.
There were no transactions with Altria during the year.
SDG is considered to be a related party of the group by virtue of its 14.0% equity shareholding in SABMiller plc.
There were no transactions with SDG during the year.
During the year ended 31 March 2012 the group made donations of US$33 million to the Fundacin Mario Santo Domingo, pursuant to the contractual arrangements entered into atthetime of theBavaria transaction in 2005, under which it was agreed thatthe proceeds of the sale of surplus non-operating property assets owned by Bavaria SA and its subsidiaries would be donated to various charities, including the Fundacin Mario Santo Domingo.
No donations were made to the Fundacin Mario Santo Domingo during the year ended 31 March 2013.
At31March 2013 US$nil 2012: US$nil was owing to the SDG.
Associates and joint ventures Details relating to transactions with associates and joint ventures are analysed below.
2013 2012 US$m US$m 1 Purchases from associates 227 214 2 Purchases from joint ventures 97 86 3 Sales to associates 46 39 4 Sales to joint ventures 25 28 5 Dividends receivable from associates 113 150 6 Dividends received from joint ventures 886 896 7 Royalties received from associates 27 13 8 Royalties received from joint ventures 2 2 9 Management fees, guarantee fees and other recoveries received from associates 17 24 10 Management fees paid to joint ventures 2 1 11 Sale of associate to joint venture 21 1 The group purchased canned Coca-Cola products for resale from Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa Pty Limited Coca-Cola Canners : inventory from Distell Group Ltd Distell and Associated Fruit Processors Pty Ltd AFP : and accommodation from Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd Tsogo Sun, all in South Africa.
2 The group purchased lager from MillerCoors LLC MillerCoors.
3 The group made sales of lager to Tsogo Sun, Delta Corporation Ltd Delta, Anadolu Efes Biraclk five Malt Sanayii AS Anadolu Efes, and Distell, and in the prior year also to Empresa Cervejas fide NGola SARL ECN, and Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales and Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltd Castel.
4 The group made sales to MillerCoors, and in the prior year also to Paci c Beverages Pty Ltd. 5 The group had dividends receivable from Castel of US$21 million 2012: US$60 million, Coca-Cola Canners US$11 million 2012: US$6 million, Distell US$21million 2012: US$22 million, Tsogo Sun US$33 million 2012: US$41 million, Delta US$12 million 2012: US$3 million, International Trade and Supply Limited $14 million 2012: US$6 million, Grolsch UK Ltd US$1million 2012: US$2 million and Kenya Breweries Ltd US$nil 2012: US$9 million.
6 The group received dividends from MillerCoors.
7 The group received royalties from Delta and Anadolu Efes and in the prior year also Kenya Breweries Ltd. 8 The group received royalties from MillerCoors.
9 The group received management fees from Delta, guarantee fees from Delta and BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltd BIH Angola, and other recoveries from AFP.
Intheprior year management fees were also received from ECN.
10 The group paid management fees to MillerCoors.
11 The group sold its interest in Fosters USA LLC to MillerCoors for cash consideration.
2013 2012 At 31 March US$m US$m 1 Amounts owed by associates trade 68 145 2 Amounts owed by associates loans 60 3 Amounts owed by joint ventures 5 6 4 Amounts owed to associates 150 42 5 Amounts owed to joint ventures 14 17 1 Amounts owed by AFP, Delta, BIH Angola and Anadolu Efes.
2 Amounts owed by BIH Angola in the prior year.
4 Amounts owed to Coca-Cola Canners, Castel and Tsogo Sun.
At 31 March 2013 this balance included US$100 million received in compensation for the loan participation deposit relating to the Angolan businesses managed by Castel see note 17.
Guarantees provided in respect of associates bank facilities are detailed in note 22. c. Transactions with key management The group has a related party relationship with the directors of the group and members of the excom as key management.
At 31 March 2013 there were 26 2012: 27 members of key management.
Key management compensation is provided in note 6c.
160 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 33.
Post balance sheet events In January 2013 the group agreed to sell its non-core milk and juice business in Panama, subject to regulatory approval.
The regulatory approval for the sale was received and the sale completed in May 2013.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures The principal subsidiary undertakings of the group as at 31 March were as follows.
Effective interest Country of Principal Name incorporation activity 2013 2012 Corporate SABMiller Holdings Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% 1 SABMiller Africa and Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Holdings SA Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Holdings SH Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller International BV Netherlands Trademark owner 100% 100% SABMiller SAF Limited United Kingdom Holding company Financing 100% 100% SABMiller Southern Investments Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% 2 SABMiller Procurement GmbH Switzerland Procurement 100% 100% SABSA Holdings Ltd South Africa Holding company 100% 100% Latin American operations 3 Bavaria SA Colombia Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% Cervecera Argentina SA Isenbeck Argentina Brewing 100% 100% Cervecera del Valle SA Colombia Brewing 99% 99% Cervecera Hondurea, SA fide CV Honduras Brewing Soft drinks 99% 99% 3 Cervecera Nacional CN SA Ecuador Brewing 96% 96% 3 Cervecera Nacional SA Panama Brewing 98% 97% 3 Cervecera San Juan SA Peru Brewing Soft drinks 92% 92% Cervecera Unin SA Colombia Brewing 98% 98% Industrias La Constancia, SA fide CV El Salvador Brewing Soft drinks 100% 100% 3 Unin fide Cerveceras Peruanas Backus y Johnston SAA Peru Brewing 94% 94% European operations 1 SABMiller Europe BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Holdings Europe Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Netherlands Cooperatieve WA Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% Birra Peroni Srl Italy Brewing 100% 100% Compaia Cervecera fide Canarias SA Spain Brewing 51% 51% Dreher Srgyrak Zrt Hungary Brewing 100% 100% Grolsche Bierbrouwerij Nederland BV Netherlands Brewing 100% 100% 4 Kompania Piwowarska SA Poland Brewing 100% 100% Miller Brands UK Ltd United Kingdom Sales and distribution 100% 100% Pivovary Topvar as Slovakia Brewing 100% 100% Plzen sk Prazdroj as Czech Republic Brewing 100% 100% Ursus Breweries SA Romania Brewing 99% 99% North American operations SABMiller Holdings Inc USA Holding company Financing 100% 100% Miller Brewing Company USA Holding company 100% 100% African operations SABMiller Africa BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller Botswana BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% SABMiller A&A Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Investments Ltd Mauritius Holding company 80% 80% SABMiller Investments II BV Netherlands Holding company 80% 80% SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued Effective interest Country of Principal Name incorporation activity 2013 2012 African operations continued SABMiller Nigeria Holdings BV Netherlands Holding company 50% 50% SABMiller Zimbabwe BV Netherlands Holding company 62% 62% Accra Brewery Ltd Ghana Brewing 60% 60% Ambo Mineral Water Share Company Ethiopia Soft drinks 40% 40% Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd Botswana Sorghum brewing 31% 31% 3 Cervejas fide Moambique SARL Mozambique Brewing 49% 49% Chibuku Products Ltd Malawi Sorghum brewing 31% 31% Crown Beverages Ltd Kenya Soft drinks 80% 80% Heinrichs Syndicate Ltd Zambia Soft drinks 62% 62% Intafact Beverages Ltd Nigeria Brewing 38% 41% 3 International Breweries plc Nigeria Brewing 36% 33% Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd Botswana Brewing Soft drinks 31% 31% Maluti Mountain Brewery Pty Ltd Lesotho Brewing Soft drinks 24% 24% MUBEX Mauritius Procurement 100% 100% 3 National Breweries plc Zambia Sorghum brewing 43% 43% Nile Breweries Ltd Uganda Brewing 62% 62% Pabod Breweries Ltd Nigeria Brewing 38% 38% Rwenzori Bottling Company Ltd Uganda Soft drinks 80% 80% Southern Sudan Beverages Ltd South Sudan Brewing 80% 80% Swaziland Beverages Ltd Swaziland Brewing 37% 37% 3 Tanzania Breweries Ltd Tanzania Brewing 36% 36% Voltic GH Ltd Ghana Soft drinks 80% 80% Voltic Nigeria Ltd Nigeria Soft drinks 50% 50% 3 Zambian Breweries plc Zambia Brewing Soft drinks 54% 54% Asia Paci c operations SABMiller Asia BV Netherlands Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Asia Ltd Hong Kong Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller A&A 2 Ltd United Kingdom Holding company 100% 100% SABMiller Beverage Investments Pty Ltd Australia Holding company 100% 100% 5 SKOL Beer Manufacturing Company Ltd India Holding company 100% 100% Fosters Group Pty Ltd Australia Holding company 100% 100% Bulmer Australia Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% 100% Cascade Brewery Company Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% 100% 6 CUB Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% 100% FBG Treasury Aust.
Pty Ltd Australia Financing 100% 100% 3,7 Fosters Group Paci c Ltd Fiji Brewing - 89% Paci c Beverages Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% 100% Queensland Breweries Pty Ltd Australia Brewing 100% 100% SABMiller Breweries Private Ltd India Brewing 100% 100% SABMiller Vietnam Company Ltd Vietnam Brewing 100% 100% 8 SABMiller India Ltd India Brewing 99% 99% South African operations The South African Breweries Pty Ltd South Africa Brewing Soft drinks Holding 100% 100% company The South African Breweries Hop Farms Pty Ltd South Africa Hop farming 100% 100% The South African Breweries Maltings Pty Ltd South Africa Maltsters 100% 100% Appletiser South Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Fruit juices 100% 100% 1 Operates and resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom.
3 Listed in country of incorporation.
4 SABMiller Poland BV, a wholly owned subsidiary of the group, holds 100% of Kompania Piwowarska SA.
5 Previously SABMiller India Ltd. 6 Previously Fosters Australia Ltd. 7 On 7 September 2012 the group completed the disposal of Fosters Group Paci c Ltd. 8 Previously Skol Breweries Ltd. 162 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 34.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued The group comprises a large number of companies.
The list above includes those subsidiary undertakings which most signi cantly affect the pro t or net assets of the group, or a business segment, together with the principal intermediate holding companies of the group.
With the exception of those noted above, the principal country in which each of the above subsidiary undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
Where the groups nominal interest in the equity share capital of an undertaking is less than 50%, the basis on which the undertaking is a subsidiary undertaking of the group is as follows.
African operations The groups effective interest in the majority of its African operations was diluted as a result of the disposal of a 38% interest in SABMiller Africa BV and SABMiller Botswana BV on 1 April 2001, in exchange for a 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests.
Investments in new territories are generally being made with the Castel groups African beverage operations on an 80:20 basis.
The operations continue to be consolidated due to SABMiller Africa BVs, SABMiller Investment Ltds, SABMiller Botswana BVs, SABMiller Nigeria Holdings BVs and SABMiller Investment II BVs majority shareholdings, and ability to control the operations.
Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd BBL and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd KBL SABMiller Botswana held a 40% interest in each of Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd and Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd with the remaining 60% interest in each held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Botswanas shares entitle the holder to twice the voting rights of those shares held by Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd. SABMiller Africa BVs 10.1% indirect interest 2012: 10.1% is held via a 16.8% interest 2012:16.8% in Sechaba Brewery Holdings Ltd.
In April 2013 BBL and KBL merged into a single entity, with KBL the surviving legal entity.
Theshareholding interests in KBL remain unchanged.
Maluti Mountain Brewery Pty Ltd Maluti SABMiller Africa BV holds a 39% interest in Maluti with the remaining interest held by a government authority, the Lesotho National Development Corporation 51%, the Privatisation Unit 5.25%, and the Lesotho Unit Trust 4.75%.
Maluti is treated as a subsidiary undertaking based on the groups ability to control its operations through its board representation.
The day to day business operations are managed in accordance with a management agreement with Bevman Services AG, a group company.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Principal subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures continued Associates and joint ventures The principal associates and joint ventures of the group as at 31 March are as set out below.
Where the groups interest in an associate or a joint venture is held by a subsidiary undertaking which is not wholly owned by the group, the subsidiary undertaking is indicated in a note below.
Effective interest Country of Nature of Principal Name incorporation relationship activity 2013 2012 European operations Anadolu Efes Biraclk five Malt 1,2 SanayiiAS Turkey Associate Brewing Soft drinks 24% 24% Grolsch UK Ltd United Kingdom Associate Brewing 50% 50% 2 International Trade and Supply Limited British Virgin Islands Associate Sales and distribution 40% 40% North American operations 2,3 MillerCoors LLC USA Joint venture Brewing 58% 58% African operations BIH Brasseries Internationales Gibraltar Associate Holding company for subsidiaries 20% 20% 2 HoldingLtd principally located in Africa Socit des Brasseries et Glacires France Associate Holding company for subsidiaries 20% 20% 2 Internationales SA principally located in Africa 2,4 Algerienne fide Bavaroise Spa Algeria Associate Brewing 40% 40% BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Gibraltar Associate Brewing Soft drinks 27% 27% 2 Angola Ltd 1,5 Delta Corporation Ltd Zimbabwe Associate Brewing Soft drinks 25% 25% Marocaine dInvestissements et fide Morocco Associate Brewing 40% 40% 1,6 Services SA 2,4 Skikda Bottling Company SARL Algeria Associate Soft drinks 40% 40% Socit fide Boissons fide IOuest Algeria Associate Soft drinks 40% 40% 2,4 AlgerienSARL 2,4 Socit des Nouvelles Brasseries Algeria Associate Brewing 40% 40% Asia Paci c operations 2 China Resources Snow Breweries Ltd British Virgin Islands Associate Holding company for brewing 49% 49% subsidiaries located in China South African operations Coca-Cola Canners of Southern Africa South Africa Associate Canning of beverages 32% 32% 2 Pty Ltd 1,7 Distell Group Ltd South Africa Associate Wines and spirits 29% 29% Hotels and Gaming 1 Tsogo Sun Holdings Ltd South Africa Associate Holding company for Hotels and 40% 40% Gaming operations 1 Listed in country of incorporation.
2 These entities report their financial results for each 12 month period ending 31 December.
3 SABMiller shares joint control of MillerCoors with Molson Coors Brewing Company under a shareholders agreement.
Voting interests are shared equally between SABMiller and Molson Coors, and each of SABMiller and Molson Coors has equal board representation.
Under the agreement SABMiller has a 58% economic interest in MillerCoors and Molson Coors has a 42% economic interest.
4 Effective 18 March 2004 SABMiller acquired 25% of the Castel groups holding in these entities.
Together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, this gives SABMiller participation on a 40:60 basis with the Castel group.
5 Interests in this company is held by SABMiller Africa BV which is held 62% by SABMiller Holdings Ltd. 6 SABMiller acquired a 25% direct interest in this holding company on 18 March 2004 which has controlling interests in three breweries, a malting plant and a wet depot in Morocco.
This25% interest together with its 20% interest in the Castel groups African beverage interests, gives SABMiller an effective participation of 40% and the other 60% is held by the Castelgroups Africa beverage interests.
7 This entity reports its financial results for each 12 month period ending 30 June.
The principal country in which each of the above associated undertakings operates is the same as the country in which each is incorporated.
However, Socit des Brasseries et Glacires Internationales, BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Ltds Castel and BIH Brasseries Internationales Holding Angola Ltds principal subsidiaries are in Africa, China Resources Snow Breweries Ltds principal subsidiaries are inthe Peoples Republic of China and International Trade and Supply Limited operates in the United Arab Emirates.
