Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the company financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the In addition, the Companies Act 2006 requires directors to provide the directors remuneration report and the company financial statements companys auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements report.
Each of the directors, having made appropriate enquiries, for each financial year.
The directors have prepared the company con rms that: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Accounting Practice.
The financial statements are required by law to of which the companys auditors are unaware: and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company for each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken thatyear.
as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: aware of that information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them A copy of the financial statements of the company is placed on consistently: thecompanys website.
The directors are responsible for the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited information on state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been thecompanys website.
Information published on the internet is followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
explained in the financial statements: and Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in other jurisdictions.
business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or quali cations as necessary.
The directors con rm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection offraud and other irregularities.
