OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE seniors long-standing emphasis on operational excellence is based on the principles of lean, striving at all times for continuous improvement and the elimination of non-value-added activities and processes.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT The Group has achieved great progress inthis area in recent years, driving value creation through the implementation of its operational excellence initiatives based LOOKING AFTER THE ENVIRONMENT This results in lower NOx levels, a cause around Lean principles and sustained Reducing the Groups environmental impact ofair pollution and a significant contributor superior performance in the eyes of its helps to reduce cost and to improve toglobal warming.
With the use of natural customers.
This is the principal reason efficiencies and makes us more agile.
gas set to rise, as a result of the shale gas that, at 13.9% in 2013, the Groups discoveries, Senior Flexonics Bartlett is now The Groups main impacts on the adjusted operating margin is at record working with customers to develop EGR environment are: energy consumption levels, having more than doubled coolers for natural gas engines and help andassociated CO2 emissions, waste since2006.
ensure the dash for gas does not come at generation and recycling, and water the expense of air pollution and increased Each operation is challenged to deliver consumption.
operational improvements as part of the The Groups objective is to improve energy annual planning cycle, using Kaizen events WATER efficiency by 10% between 2011 and 2015 and other Lean practices to reduce costs, Further improvements have been made and it remains on track to fulfil this goal.
improve product flow and velocity and inwater conservation, resulting in a 5% Allof the Groups operations develop optimise use of resources.
Planned reduction in water consumption.
When energyconservation projects, tailored to introduction of Kanban systems in normalised to sales, the Groups water usage theirmain energy consumption, and regularly Mexicowill strengthen our position reduced to 0.36 megalitres per m sales monitor performance through energy usage.
Seniors Lean programme also continues Engineering teams at multiple locations tohelp toreduce energy demand by ISO 14001 are identifying technical improvements improving theefficiency of how the Across the Group, 90% of its manufacturing inCNC machine programs and cutter Groupmanufactures and streamlines locations are certified to the ISO 14001 technologies to speed throughput .
environmental management standard and benefiting capacity load and lead times.
the remainder, all of which are businesses WASTE Value stream mapping activities are acquired in the last three years, are in the In 2013, the total amount of waste generated frequently undertaken to reduce set-up process of obtaining certification.
by the Group was 12,124 tonnes, a 3% time, manufacturing lead times and decrease on the 2012 levels 12,476 tonnes.
A good example of this Over three-quarters of Seniors waste isat SSP, where the team is in the process material is recycled and the Group continues of transforming the production process to design-out the waste or find alternative toa one-piece flow from the current batch ways to reuse the material.
and queue process for an estimated 80%of the items produced.
SENIORS EGR COOLERS REDUCE NOX EMISSIONS BY 80% GOOD GOVERNANCE Many of the Groups products play a vital CO2 TO TURNOVER Governance procedures are designed rolein improving the environment, such TONNES OF CO2 EMITTED PER M REVENUE toallow each operation to embrace asthe Exhaust Gas Recirculation EGR andmanage key operational excellence 114 coolers thatare designed and manufactured 110 effectively, and to comply with all legal and 104 at Senior Flexonics Bartlett.
EGR coolers are 99 regulatory requirements, without imposing 97 94 installed on diesel engines and significantly 92 an unnecessary administrative burden.
85 reduce pollutants by cooling and recirculating They also aim to ensure that employees a proportion of the exhaust gas back into act at all times safely, with integrity and theengine.
