Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financ ial Statements 1.
General information Serco Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.
These consolidated financial statements the financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Serco Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting These financial statements on pages 113 to 169 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
The following principal accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently in the current and preceding financial year except as stated below.
As discussed in more detail in the Finance Review section of the Strategic Report, these financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company together, the Group up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separate from equity of shareholders of Serco Group plc.
Adoption of new and revised standards The following accounting amendments, standards and interpretations became effective in the current reporting period: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised 2011 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement In addition, the Group has early adopted the following standards, which are endorsed by the EU but not effective until 1 January 2014: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS 36 Impairment of Assets The nature and the impact of each of the new amendments, standards or interpretations which have a significant impact on the financial statements are described below: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 10 replaces the parts of the previously existing IAS 27 that dealt with consolidated financial statements.
The new standard changes the definition of control such that an investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to control those returns through its power over the investee.
The adoption of IFRS 10 has had no impact on the consolidation of investments held by the Group.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 11 removed the option for the proportional consolidation of joint ventures and instead requires equity accounting.
A restatement of the 2012 results for these changes reduced statutory reported revenue by 852.9m and profit before tax by 15.1m.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 12 resulted in additional disclosures with respect to individual joint venture arrangements.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS.
IFRS 13 defines fair value as an exit price.
As a result of the guidance in IFRS 13, the Group re-assessed its policies for measuring fair values, in particular, its valuation inputs such as non-performance risk for fair value measurement of liabilities.
IFRS 13 also requires additional disclosures.
Application of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted the fair value measurements of the Group.
Significant accounting policies continued IAS 1 amended Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 increases the required level of disclosure within the statement of comprehensive income and clarified the requirements for comparative information.
One impact of these amendments has been to analyse items within the statement of comprehensive income between items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss and items that will not.
The financial statements have also been amended to analyse income tax on the same basis.
The amendments have been applied retrospectively, and hence the presentation of items of comprehensive income has been restated to reflect the change.
The amendments also clarify that the opening statement of financial position as at 1 January 2012 in the case of the Group presented as a result of retrospective restatement or reclassification of items in the financial statements does not have to be accompanied by comparative information in the related notes.
Other than the above mentioned presentation changes, the application of the amendments to IAS 1 do not result in any impact on profit or loss, comprehensive income and total comprehensive income.
IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits IAS 19 requires pension interest return to be calculated using the value of scheme assets multiplied by the discount rate rather than the expected rate of asset return.
The Group has applied IAS 19 revised retrospectively and in accordance with the transitional provisions as set out in that standard.
The impact of this change is to reduce pre tax profits by 5.8m and to reduce post tax profits by 4.9m.
IAS 19 revised also introduces more extensive disclosures in the presentation of the defined benefit cost.
IAS 36 revised Impairment of Assets IAS 36.
The amendments to IAS 36 enhance the disclosure requirements arising when recoverable amounts have been determined on the basis of fair value less costs of disposal.
They also limit the requirement to disclose the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU to periods in which an impairment loss has been recognised or reverses.
We have chosen to adopt the amendments early, as allowed by the standard, with effect from 1 January 2013.
New standards and interpretations not applied At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective or have not yet been adopted by the EU: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 IAS 39 revised Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39 The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application except for IFRS 9, which will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments.
However, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of this standard until a detailed review has been completed.
Fair value Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique.
In estimating fair value of an asset or liability, the Group takes into account those characteristics of the asset or liability market participants would consider when pricing the asset or liability.
Fair value for measurement and or disclosure purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions that are within the scope of IAS 17 Leases, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in IAS 2 Inventories or value in use in IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts due for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Revenue is deferred when the Group has received consideration under the terms of a contract in advance of performing the related service or delivering the associated goods.
Deferred revenue is recognised as revenue in the income statement when the Group has fulfilled the relevant contractual commitment.
Revenue recognition: repeat service-based contracts Revenue on repeat service-based contracts is recognised as services are provided.
Where initial contract costs phase-in costs are paid for by the customer, revenue is recognised when the related costs are incurred.
Revenue recognition: long-term project-based contracts The Group has a number of long-term contracts for the provision of complex, project-based services.
Where the outcome of such long-term projectbased contracts can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
This is measured by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract costs.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer, or are virtually certain of being received.
Where the outcome of a long-term project-based contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs that are probable to be recovered.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
119 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financ ial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition: other Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed.
Significant accounting policies continued Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Bid costs and phase in costs All bid costs are expensed through the income statement up to the point where contract award or full recovery of costs is virtually certain, being the point at which the Group is awarded preferred bidder status.
Bid costs incurred after this point are then capitalised within trade and other receivables.
On contract award these bid costs are amortised through the income statement over the contract period by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
Bid costs are only capitalised to the extent that it is expected that the related contract will generate sufficient future economic benefits to at least offset the amortisation charge.
Phase in costs that are incremental and directly related to the initial set up of contracts are capitalised within trade and other receivables and are recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract, except where they are specifically reimbursed as part of the terms of the contract when they are recognised as revenue.
Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in the net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income SOCI.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised directly within equity in the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The consideration for each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition date fair value.
Subsequent changes in fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period adjustments which is subject to a maximum of one year.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with the relevant accounting standards.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 2008 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except where a different treatment is mandated by another standard.
Investments in joint ventures A joint venture is an arrangement whereby the owning parties have joint control and rights over the net assets of the arrangement.
Following adoption of IFRS 11, the Groups investments in joint ventures are no longer reported in the financial statements using the proportional consolidation method, but are instead incorporated using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost less any impairment.
For investments held at the date of implementation, cost is deemed to be the aggregate of the carrying amounts of the assets and liabilities previously proportionately consolidated.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint venture recognised at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill.
Goodwill is included within the carrying value amount of the investment and is assessed for impairment as part of that investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Where a Group entity transacts with a joint venture, profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the arrangement.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquired entity, over the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquired entity, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Significant accounting policies continued Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly-controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Other intangible assets Assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed except where this is not material.
Expenditure on research is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be separately identified, and which the Group intends to use or sell: the finalisation of the asset is technically feasible and the Group has adequate resources to complete its development for use or sale: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Customer relationships represent the value of contracts acquired on the acquisition of subsidiaries and are amortised over the average length of the related contracts.
Purchased software and development expenditure is amortised over the period in which the Group is expected to benefit.
This period is between three to eight years, or the length of the contract if longer.
Provision is also made for any impairment.
All other development expenditure is written off as incurred.
Assets under the course of construction are not depreciated.
Licences comprise premiums paid for the acquisition of licences, while franchises represent costs incurred in obtaining franchise rights and franchise goodwill arising on the acquisition of franchises.
These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the respective licence or franchise.
Pension related intangibles represent assets arising in relation to the Groups right to manage and operate contracts where there is a defined benefit pension scheme and it is not virtually certain that contributions will be recovered from the customer but where the Groups obligation to contribute to the scheme ends when the contract ends.
The intangible assets represent the Groups share of scheme net liabilities on the date that contracts commence and are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract.
Property, plant and equipment Assets held for use in the rendering of services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed except where this is not material.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates designed to reduce the assets to their residual value over their estimated useful lives.
The principal annual rates used are: Freehold buildings 2.5% Short-leasehold building improvements The higher of 10% or the rate produced by the lease term Machinery 15%20% Motor vehicles 10%50% Furniture 10% Office equipment 20%33% Leased equipment The higher of the rate produced by the lease term or useful life The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets Annually, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
A CGU is the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets or groups of assets.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
121 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financ ial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit group of units on a pro rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Impairment losses and reversals are included within administrative expenses within the consolidated income statement.
Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial cost method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in the SOCI.
The current service cost represents the increase in the present value of the scheme liabilities expected to arise from employee service in the current period.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and is amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefit vests.
Gains and losses on curtailments or settlements are recognised in the period in which the curtailment or settlement occurs.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
The economic benefit from refunds is only recognised to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to receive a refund.
To the extent that an economic benefit is available as a reduction in contributions and there is a minimum funding requirement, the economic benefit available as a reduction in contributions is calculated at the present value of: a the estimated future service cost in each year: less b the estimated minimum funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual and benefits in that year.
Defined benefit obligations arising from contractual obligations Where the Group takes on a contract and assumes the obligation to contribute variable amounts to the defined benefit pension scheme throughout the period of the contract, the Groups share of the defined benefit obligation less its share of the pension scheme assets that it will fund over the period of the contract is recognised as a liability at the start of the contract with a corresponding amount being recognised as an intangible asset.
The intangible asset, which reflects the Groups right to manage and operate the contract, is amortised over the contract period.
The Groups share of the scheme assets and liabilities is calculated by reducing the scheme assets and liabilities by a franchise adjustment.
The franchise adjustment represents the amount of scheme deficit that is expected to be funded outside the contract period.
Subsequent actuarial gains and losses in relation to the Groups share of pension obligations are recognised outside the income statement and are presented in the SOCI.
Multi-employer pension schemes Multi-employer pension schemes are classified as either a defined contribution pension scheme or a defined benefit pension scheme under the terms of the scheme.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange risk and price risk, including currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and commodity future contracts.
Further details of derivative financial instruments are given in note 33.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities fair value hedges or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of firm commitments cash flow hedges.
Significant accounting policies continued At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Both at the inception of the hedge and on a periodic basis, the Group assesses whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months.
Derivatives, which mature within 12 months, are presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and movements in the hedging and translation reserve in equity are detailed in the SOCI and described in note 33.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group fide-designates the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Tax The tax expense represents the sum of current tax expense and deferred tax expense.
Current tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for accounting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which these items can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction other than a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority where the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Share-based payment The Group makes equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and operates an HMRC approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme open to eligible employees which allows the purchase of shares at a discount.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
SAYE options are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme, resulting in an acceleration of the remainder of the related expense.
123 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financ ial Statements 2.
Significant accounting policies continued Where the fair value of share options requires the use of a valuation model, fair value is measured by use of the Binomial Lattice or Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of scheme, as set out in note 38.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, the value of the option has also been adjusted to take account of market conditions applicable to the option.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise service spares, parts awaiting installation and work in progress for projects undertaken for customers where payment is received on completion.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the contract.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that a trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is based on managements best estimate of the recoverable amount.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance for doubtful debts and the amount of the loss is recognised in the income statement within administrative expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance for doubtful debts.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against administrative expenses.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to insignificant changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
This definition is also used for the consolidated cash flow statement.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at fair value or, if lower, at the present value of minimum lease payments determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement, unless they are directly attributable to a qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised in accordance with the Groups general policy on borrowing costs see below.
Total rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Loans Loans are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Accrued interest is recorded separately from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
Loans are described as non recourse loans and classified as such only if no Group company other than the relevant borrower has an obligation, under a guarantee or other arrangement, to repay the debt.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at managements best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
Net investments in foreign operations Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Groups net investment in foreign operations are initially recognised in equity and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve and reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment.
Dividends Dividends are recorded in the Groups consolidated financial statements in the period in which they are declared, appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the Company.
