Exceptional items Current year exceptional items Exceptional items are non-recurring items of financial performance that are material to the results of the Group either by virtue of size or nature.
We believe these items require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying performance of the Group.
Net profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 2013 Year ended 31 December m Gain on disposal of UK transport maintenance business 23.2 Loss on disposal of occupational health business 3.9 Loss on disposal of Ascot College 0.1 Net profit on disposal of subsidiaries and operations 19.2 In November 2013 the Group completed the sale of its London streets maintenance and UK transport technology business to Cubic Corporation which, after disposal-related costs, resulted in a profit on disposal of 23.2m.
This was offset by a loss on the disposal of the occupational health business in October 2013 of 3.9m and Ascot College of 0.1m, which was sold in December 2013.
Other exceptional operating items During the year an investigation was undertaken by the Ministry of Justice MoJ into the billing practices in respect of our Electronic Monitoring EM contract.
Additionally, the Cabinet Office undertook a wider review across other Serco contracts with UK Central Government.
48% of 2013 contract revenues in the UK & Europe division were covered by reviews undertaken by Central Government and the Ministry of Justice.
Serco has also agreed with the UK Government to undertake a process of corporate renewal, to strengthen governance and transparency which includes the separation of the UK & Europe division into two.
The audits, reviews and corporate renewal processes all incurred one-off costs that are deemed to be exceptional items, which are set out in the table below together with other items identified for separate presentation.
UK Government review related items Other Total 2013 2013 2013 Year ended 31 December m m m Settlement amounts relating to UK Government reviews 66.3 66.3 Costs associated with UK Government reviews 11.6 11.6 UK clinical health contract provisions 17.6 17.6 Restructuring 14.9 14.9 Asset impairment 9.6 9.6 Deferred consideration relating to prior year acquisition 10.3 10.3 Other exceptional operating items 77.9 31.8 109.7 Settlement amounts relating to UK Government reviews In December 2013, following a review of the billing arrangements on the EM contract by the Ministry of Justice, a settlement of 64.3m was reached in respect of contractual claims.
In addition, a 2.0m settlement was reached on the Prisoner Escort and Custody Services PECS contract which was also subject to Government review to reflect repayment of past profit earned on this contract.
The settlement was full and final in respect of contractual claims with the proviso that additional payments might be sought in limited circumstances, such as if criminality were to be established.
Serco continues to cooperate fully with the ongoing investigations by the Serious Fraud Office.
Costs associated with UK Government reviews Since July 2013 there have been external adviser and other directly related incremental costs that amount to 11.6m.
UK clinical health contract provisions During the year we completed a review of the clinical health operations in the UK.
As a result, we will exit two contracts early.
These contracts, together with a third loss-making contract, require contract provisions for estimated losses in future years and the impairment of operating assets which in total amounts to a non-cash exceptional charge of 17.6m.
Restructuring As a result of a wider assessment of the Groups operations, a restructuring charge of 14.9m was taken, with 13.3m directly related to the corporate renewal process.
Asset impairment As a result of a review of under-performing businesses and operations, an impairment charge of 9.6m was taken in relation to the carrying value of fixed assets in Great Southern Railway, a rail tourism business based in Australia, reflecting more challenging conditions in that market.
Adjustment to prior year acquisitions On assessment against the earn-out criteria, an adjustment was made to the deferred consideration arising on the Intelenet acquisition in 2011 of 10.3m.
