Significant accounting policies continued Segmental information Segmental information is based on internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
Segmental revenue is analysed on an external basis.
Inter-segment revenue is not presented as it is not significant in the context of revenue as a whole.
Net finance costs are not presented for each operating segment as they are reviewed on a consolidated basis by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Items excluded from segmental results comprise corporate expenses.
Specific corporate expenses are allocated to the corresponding segments.
Segment assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables excluding corporation tax recoverable and any retirement benefit asset.
Segment liabilities comprise trade and other payables and retirement benefit obligations.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2 above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations which are dealt with below.
Revenue and profit recognition of long-term project-based contracts Revenue and profit is recognised for certain long-term project-based contracts based on the stage of completion of the contract activity.
The assessment of the stage of completion requires the exercise of judgement and is measured by the proportion of costs incurred to estimated whole life contract costs, except where whole life contract costs exceed the contract value, in which case the excess is expensed immediately.
Capitalisation of internally generated intangible assets When the Group creates an intangible asset where the future economic benefits are greater than the expected costs, the development costs are capitalised if they meet the other requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets as set out in the accounting policies section above.
Separation of income statement items from underlying results IAS 1 requires material items to be disclosed separately in a way that enables users to assess the quality of a companys profitability.
In practice, these are commonly referred to as exceptional items, but this is not a concept defined by IFRS and therefore there is a level of judgement involved in determining what to include in underlying profit.
We consider items which are material, non-recurring and outside of the normal operating practice of the Company to be suitable for separate presentation.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash flows of cash-generating units and also the selection of appropriate discount rates, which involves judgement, to calculate present values see note 20.
The carrying value of goodwill is 1,270.8m 2012 restated: 1,312.1m at the balance sheet date.
Retirement benefit obligations The calculation of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on material key assumptions including discount rates, future returns on assets and future contribution rates see note 34.
The value of net retirement benefit obligations at the balance sheet date is an asset of 52.9m 2012 restated: 31.7m.
Details of the impact of changes in assumptions relating to retirement benefit obligations are disclosed in note 34. Business combinations The calculation of fair values associated with business combinations requires the use of judgement in determining the future economic inflows and outflows associated with the acquired assets and liabilities.
This includes the estimation of contingent deferred consideration and intangibles arising on acquisition.
As permitted by IFRS 3 2008, provisional amounts are recognised for acquired net assets during the measurement period where complete information about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date is not available at the reporting date.
Provisions for onerous contracts Determining whether provisions are required for loss making onerous contracts requires an estimate to be made of the future profitability of the given contract, based on various interdependent factors.
Historically these provisions have been rare, but in the current year an exceptional charge was made for onerous contracts, with further details provided in notes 11 and 30.
