Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Financial statements Notes to the Consolidated Financ ial Statements 1.
General information Serco Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.
These consolidated financial statements the financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because this is the currency of the primary economic environment in which Serco Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
Significant accounting policies Basis of accounting These financial statements on pages 113 to 169 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
The following principal accounting policies adopted have been applied consistently in the current and preceding financial year except as stated below.
As discussed in more detail in the Finance Review section of the Strategic Report, these financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company together, the Group up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and is presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separate from equity of shareholders of Serco Group plc.
Adoption of new and revised standards The following accounting amendments, standards and interpretations became effective in the current reporting period: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised 2011 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement In addition, the Group has early adopted the following standards, which are endorsed by the EU but not effective until 1 January 2014: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IAS 36 Impairment of Assets The nature and the impact of each of the new amendments, standards or interpretations which have a significant impact on the financial statements are described below: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 10 replaces the parts of the previously existing IAS 27 that dealt with consolidated financial statements.
The new standard changes the definition of control such that an investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to control those returns through its power over the investee.
The adoption of IFRS 10 has had no impact on the consolidation of investments held by the Group.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 11 removed the option for the proportional consolidation of joint ventures and instead requires equity accounting.
A restatement of the 2012 results for these changes reduced statutory reported revenue by 852.9m and profit before tax by 15.1m.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 12 resulted in additional disclosures with respect to individual joint venture arrangements.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS.
IFRS 13 defines fair value as an exit price.
As a result of the guidance in IFRS 13, the Group re-assessed its policies for measuring fair values, in particular, its valuation inputs such as non-performance risk for fair value measurement of liabilities.
IFRS 13 also requires additional disclosures.
Application of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted the fair value measurements of the Group.
