Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic Report Corporate responsibility At31December2013, : Continued Number Percentage Male Female Male Female Directors 5 1 83.3% 16.7%  complex global environment, which presented Senior managers 56 8 87.5% 12.5% us with a number of technical and organisational challenges.
 Employees 77,780 41,020 65.5% 34.5% the year and put in place improved processes for dealing with issues as they emerge.
We continued to develop the system during At31December2013, , .
the year, including better forms and training managers in using MyHR Online and our people management processes.
We now intend to  Serco operates in a number of heavily move to the next stage of development, adding appointment of three new non-executive regulated, safety-critical areas, which places more functionality to MyHR to include learning, directors.
At the date of this report, we therefore stringent requirements upon us.
Itwill had nine directors, of whom three are female.
systems in place to deliver these requirements, also help us to deploy training and compliance  programmes to all our people, for example Human rights licences we operate under.
This also means around our Code of Conduct.
Respecting human rights is an important that we have regular regulatory oversight.
 Together, these factors give us a strong Duringtheyear,  for our business.
 for our Middle East business to our transaction responsibilities.
We recognise and apply the principles in .
For2013,  2014 objectives Our Governance, Conduct and Ethics policy objectivesbelow.
 : requires us to respect the human rights and are contained in our CR report.
, or roll out our new leadership model benefitfrom,  Objective 1: A lost time incident LTI relating to human rights or that supports or rate of 573 per 100,000 employees, continue to build on best practices encourages the abuse of human rights.
We also representing a 5% reduction against the in engagement, and , whichwe 2012 baseline use to assess the potential human rights issues add new functionality to MyHR and use associated with contracts for which we are ,  thinkingofbidding.
All our divisions improved their performance during the year.
Diversity Health and safety Serco is an inherently diverse business.
Our aspiration is zero harm.
Nothing is so urgent Slips, trips, falls and manual handling are However, we still need to promote diversity and or important that we cannot do it safely.
A strong , sowehave ensure that all our employees are able to be HSE performance ensures the safety of our , including , regardlessof people and protects our reputation.
Wherever they staff awareness and training.
 , ourpeoplemust diversity strategy, based on a set of global adhere to stringent health and safety procedures.
Morespecifically, theUK&Europedivisiontook principles, details of which can be found on These procedures are embedded in the SMS and , our website, www.
are the minimum standards that apply.
with initiatives including improved governance Nothing is so urgent or important that we cannot do  managing our HSE responsibilities.
