Shareholder information E-communications Dividends Shire offers shareholders the ability to access shareholder Shareholders are able to choose how they receive their documents, such as its annual reports and notices of AGMs, dividends: byway of e-communications as an alternative to receiving directly into their bank account : or papercopies through the post.
To register for e-communications, simply log onto Shire preferred option.
co. uk myportfolio and follow the online instructions.
To start, you will require your shareholder reference The quickest and most efficient way to receive your dividends number which you will find on your share certificate or dividend isto have them paid directly into your bank account.
Following registration, you will need to alter your selecting this payment method receive a tax voucher with each mailing preference to e-communications and confirm your payment.
To change how you receive your dividends, either log email address.
co. uk myportfolio or contact Equiniti.
Shareholders who do not elect to receive documents or Income Access Share IAS Arrangements notifications via e-communications will continue to receive paper Shareholders who elect, or are deemed to have elected, to copies.
receive their dividends via the IAS arrangements will receive their dividends from a UK source rather than directly from the Shareholder security Company which is an Irish tax resident company for UK tax Many companies have become aware that their shareholders purposes.
have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas Shareholders who hold 25,000 or fewer shares at the first based brokers who target UK shareholders, offering to sell them dividend record date after becoming a shareholder in the what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or Company will be deemed to have elected to receive their UK investments.
dividends under the IAS arrangements, unless they elect otherwise.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free Shareholders who hold more than 25,000 shares and who wish company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment to receive their dividends from a UK source must make an IAS advice: Election.
All elections remain in force indefinitely unless revoked.
make sure you get the name of the person and organization: Unless shareholders have made an IAS Election, or are deemed to have made an IAS Election, dividends will be received from an check that they are properly authorized by the FSA before Irish source and will be taxed accordingly.
getting involved by visiting www.
uk register : and report the matter to the FSA either by calling 0845 606 1234 or An IAS dividend election form can be found on Shires website at: by completing an online form at: www.
com shireplc en investors regulated law alerts form.
shtml  shareholderforms If you deal with an unauthorized firm, you will not be eligible to ShareGift receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which Scheme.
makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift registered charity no.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses Donated shares are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the will be included in Company mailings.
proceeds being passed on to a wide range of charities.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found Find out more about ShareGift: on the FSA website: www.
org scamsandswindles Email: help@sharegift.
uk This warning has been issued by the Financial Services Authority Tel: 44 0 20 7930 3737 and endorsed by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Financial calendar Second interim dividend payment April 2014 Annual General Meeting April 2014 First quarter results announcement May 2014 Second quarter results announcement July 2014 First interim dividend payment October 2014 Third quarter results announcement October 2014 Annual results announcement February 2015 Second interim dividend payment April 2015 164 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Registered office American Depositary Shares 22 Grenville Street The Companys American Depositary Shares ADSs, each St Helier representing three Ordinary Shares, are listed on the NASDAQ JE4 8PX Global Select Market under the symbol SHPG.
The Company Jersey files reports and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC that are available for inspection Registered in Jersey No.
99854 and copying at the SECs public reference facilities or can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary.
Group headquarters 5 Riverwalk Citibank, N. A. is the depository for Shire ADSs.
All enquiries Citywest Business Campus concerning ADS records, certificates or the transfer of Ordinary Dublin 24 Shares into ADSs should be addressed to: Republic of Ireland Citibank shareholder services UK P. O.
Box 43077 Unity Place Providence, Rhode Island Hampshire International Business Park 02940-3077 Chineham USA Basingstoke Hampshire General enquiries: RG24 8EP Toll free in US: United Kingdom 1-877-Citi-ADR 248-4237 From outside the US: Website 1-781-575-4555 www.
com Investor relations Laurie Stelzer Tel: 1 781 482 0733 Email: investorrelations@shire.
com Registrar All administrative enquiries relating to shareholders should be addressed to Equiniti, clearly stating the registered shareholders name and address.
Equiniti Shire Shareholder Services Equiniti Jersey Limited c o Equiniti Limited Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing BN99 6DA Shareholder helpline From overseas: Tel: 44 0 121 415 7593 In the UK: Tel: 0871 384 2553 Calls cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines open 8:30am to 5:30pm, Monday to Friday.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 165
