Notes to the consolidated financial statements The Companys principal revenue streams and their respective 1.
Description of operations accounting treatments are discussed below: Shire plc and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either Shire, or the Company is a leading specialty Product sales biopharmaceutical company that focuses on developing and Revenue for the sale of products is recognized when delivery has marketing innovative specialty medicines that address significant occurred and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership unmet patient needs.
have been transferred to the customer.
Provisions for rebates, product returns and discounts to customers are provided for as The Company has grown through acquisition, completing a reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are series of major transactions that have brought therapeutic, recorded.
The provisions made at the time of revenue recognition geographic and pipeline growth and diversification.
The are based on historical experience and updated for changes in Company will continue to evaluate companies, products and facts and circumstances including the impact of new legislation.
pipeline opportunities that offer a good strategic fit and have the The provisions are recognized as a reduction to revenues.
potential to deliver demonstrable value to all of the Companys stakeholders: patients, physicians, policy makers, payors, Royalty income investors and employees.
Royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when the licensee sells the underlying product, with the amount of royalty income recorded based on sales information received from the relevant licensee.
Summary of significant amounts and related royalty income based on the historical accounting policies product information for any period that the sales information is a Basis of preparation not available from the relevant licensee.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the Licensing revenues accounts of Shire plc, all of its subsidiary undertakings and the Other revenue includes revenues derived from product outIncome Access Share trust, after elimination of intercompany licensing arrangements, which typically consist of an initial upfront accounts and transactions.
They have been prepared in payment on inception of the license and subsequent milestone accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the payments contingent on the achievement of certain clinical and United States of America US GAAP and US Securities and sales milestones.
Product out-licensing arrangements often Exchange Commission SEC regulations for annual reporting.
require the Company to provide multiple deliverables to the licensee.
b Use of estimates in consolidated financial statements The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in Initial license fees received in connection with product outconformity with US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires licensing agreements entered into prior to January 1, 2011 are management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the deferred and recognized over the period in which the Company reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of has continuing substantive performance obligations, typically the contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated period over which the Company participates in the development financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and of the out-licensed product, even where such fees are nonexpenses during the reporting period.
Estimates and refundable and not creditable against future royalty payments.
assumptions are primarily made in relation to the valuation of intangible assets, sales deductions, income taxes including For product out-licensing arrangements entered into, or subject provisions for uncertain tax positions and the realization of to material modification, after January 1, 2011, consideration deferred tax assets, provisions for litigation and legal received is allocated between each of the separable elements in proceedings, contingent consideration receivable from product the arrangement using the relative selling price method.
An divestments, contingent consideration payable in respect of element is considered separable if it has value to the customer on business combinations and asset purchases and assets held for a stand-alone basis.
The selling price used for each separable sale.
If actual results differ from the Companys estimates, or to element will be based on vendor specific objective evidence the extent these estimates are adjusted in future periods, the VSOE if available, third party evidence if VSOE is not available, Companys results of operations could either benefit from, or be or estimated selling price if neither VSOE nor third party evidence adversely affected by, any such change in estimate.
Revenue is then recognized as each of the separable elements to which the revenue has been allocated is delivered.
c Revenue recognition The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following Milestone payments which are non-refundable, non creditable conditions are met: and contingent on achieving certain clinical milestones are recognized as revenues either on achievement of such there is persuasive evidence of an agreement or arrangement: milestones if the milestones are considered substantive or over the period the Company has continuing substantive performance delivery of products has occurred or services have obligations, if the milestones are not considered substantive.
If beenrendered: milestone payments are creditable against future royalty the sellers price to the buyer is fixed or determinable: and payments, the milestones are deferred and released over the period in which the royalties are anticipated to be paid.
Where applicable, all revenues are stated net of value added and similar taxes, and trade discounts.
No revenue is recognized for consideration, the value or receipt of which is dependent on future events or future performance.
106 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information f Cost of product sales 2.
Summary of significant Cost of product sales includes the cost of purchasing finished accounting policies continued product for sale, the cost of raw materials and manufacturing for those products that are manufactured by the Company, shipping d Sales deductions and handling costs, depreciation and amortization of intangible i Rebates assets in respect of favorable manufacturing contracts.
Royalties Rebates primarily consist of statutory rebates to state Medicaid payable on products to which the Company does not own the agencies and contractual rebates with health-maintenance rights are also included in Cost of product sales.
These rebates are based on price differentials between a base price and the selling price.
As a result, rebates g Leased assets generally increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life The costs of operating leases are charged to operations on a of the product as prices increase.
Provisions for rebates are straight-line basis over the lease term, even if rental payments are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the not made on such a basis.
related sales are recorded, with the amount of the rebate based Assets acquired under capital leases are included in the on the Companys best estimate if any uncertainty exists over the consolidated balance sheet as property, plant and equipment unit rebate amount, and with estimates of future utilization derived and are depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease or from historical trends.
The capital element of future lease payments is ii Returns recorded as a liability, while the interest element is charged to The Company estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that operations over the period of the lease to produce a level yield on will result in a return, based on historical trends and when the balance of the capital lease obligation.
applicable, specific factors affecting certain products at the h Advertising expense balance sheet date.
The accrual is recorded as a reduction to The Company expenses the cost of advertising as incurred.
revenue in the same period as the related sales are recorded.
Advertising costs amounted to $60.9 million and $85.8 million for iii Coupons the years to December 31, 2013 and 2012 respectively and were The Company uses coupons as a form of sales incentive.
An included within Selling, general and administrative SG&A accrual is established based on the Companys expectation of expenses.
the level of coupon redemption, estimated using historical trends.
i R&D expense The accrual is recorded as a reduction to revenue in the same R&D costs are expensed as incurred.
Upfront and milestone period as the related sales are recorded or the date the coupon is payments made to third parties for in-licensed products that have offered, if later than the date the related sales are recorded.
not yet received marketing approval and for which no alternative iv Discounts future use has been identified are also expensed as incurred.
The Company offers cash discounts to customers for the early Milestone payments made to third parties on and subsequent to payment of receivables which are recorded as reductions to regulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets, and revenue and accounts receivable in the same period as the amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product.
j Valuation and impairment of long-lived assets other than v Wholesaler chargebacks goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets and investments The Company has contractual agreements whereby it supplies The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets certain products to third parties at predetermined prices.
other than goodwill, indefinite lived intangible assets and Wholesalers acting as intermediaries in these transactions are investments for impairment whenever events or changes in reimbursed by the Company if the predetermined prices are less circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of the relevant than the prices paid by the wholesaler to the Company.
Accruals assets may not be recoverable.
When such a determination is for wholesaler chargebacks, which are based on historical trends, made, managements estimate of undiscounted cash flows to be are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same period as the generated by the use and ultimate disposition of these assets is related sales are recorded.
compared to the carrying value of the assets to determine e Collaborative arrangements whether the carrying value is recoverable.
If the carrying value is The Company enters into collaborative arrangements to develop deemed not to be recoverable, the amount of the impairment and commercialize drug candidates.
These collaborative recognized in the consolidated financial statements is determined arrangements often require up-front, milestone, royalty or profit by estimating the fair value of the relevant assets and recording share payments, or a combination of these, with payments often an impairment loss for the amount by which the carrying value contingent upon the success of the related development and exceeds the estimated fair value.
This fair value is usually commercialization efforts.
Collaboration agreements entered into determined based on estimated discounted cash flows.
by the Company may also include expense reimbursements or k Finance costs of debt other such payments to the collaborating partner.
Finance costs relating to debt issued are recorded as a deferred The Company reports costs incurred and revenue generated charge and amortized to the consolidated statements of income from transactions with third parties as well as payments between over the period to the earliest redemption date of the debt, using parties to collaborative arrangements either on a gross or net the effective interest rate method.
On extinguishment of the basis, depending on the characteristics of the collaborative related debt, any unamortized deferred financing costs are relationship.
written off and charged to interest expense in the consolidated statements of income.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 107 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued average number of Ordinary Share equivalents outstanding 2.
Summary of significant during the period, adjusted for the dilutive effect of all potential accounting policies continued Ordinary Shares equivalents that were outstanding during the year.
Such potentially dilutive shares are excluded when the effect l Foreign currency would be to increase diluted earnings per share or reduce the Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated diluted loss per share.
into the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary in which they arise at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
o Share-based compensation Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the relevant Share-based compensation represents the cost of share-based functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of awards granted to employees.
The Company measures sharethe transaction.
Transaction gains and losses, other than those based compensation cost for awards classified as equity at the related to current and deferred tax assets and liabilities, are grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award.
recognized in arriving at income from operations before income Predominantly all of the Companys awards have service and or taxes and equity in earnings of equity method investees.
performance conditions and the fair values of these awards are Transaction gains and losses arising on foreign currency estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
denominated current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are For share-based compensation awards which cliff vest, the included within income taxes in the consolidated statements of Company recognizes the cost of the relevant share based income.
payment award as an expense on a straight-line basis net of The results of operations for subsidiaries, whose functional estimated forfeitures over the employees requisite service currency is not the US dollar, are translated into the US dollar at period.
For those share-based compensation awards with a the average rates of exchange during the period, with the graded vesting schedule, the Company recognizes the cost of subsidiaries balance sheets translated at the rates ruling at the the relevant share based payment award as an expense on a balance sheet date.
The cumulative effect of exchange rate straight-line basis net of estimated forfeitures over the requisite movements is included in a separate component of Other service period for the entire award that is, over the requisite comprehensive income.
service period for the last separately vesting portion of the award.
The share based compensation expense is recorded in Cost of Foreign currency exchange transaction losses included in product sales, R&D, and SG&A in the consolidated statements of consolidated statements of income in the years to December 31, income based on the employees respective functions.
2013 and 2012 amounted to $8.7 million and $3.5 million respectively.
The Company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions on the Companys income tax returns, based on m Income taxes the amount of compensation cost recognized and the Uncertain tax positions are recognized in the consolidated Companys statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will financial statements for positions which are considered more receive a deduction.
Differences between the deferred tax assets likely than not of being sustained, based on the technical merits recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax of the position on audit by the tax authorities.
The measurement deduction reported on the Companys income tax return are of the tax benefit recognized in the consolidated financial recorded in additional paid-in capital if the tax deduction statements is based upon the largest amount of tax benefit that, exceeds the deferred tax asset or in the consolidated statements in managements judgment, is greater than 50% likely of being of income if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction realized based on a cumulative probability assessment of the and no additional paid-in capital exists from previous awards.
The Company recognizes interest relating to unrecognized tax benefits and penalties within income taxes.
The Companys share-based compensation plans are described more fully in Note 28.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the p Cash and cash equivalents consolidated financial statements and the tax bases of assets Cash and cash equivalents are defined as short term highly liquid and liabilities that will result in future taxable or deductible investments with original maturities of ninety days or less.
The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured q Financial instruments derivatives using the enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods in The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its which the differences are expected to affect taxable income.
exposure to foreign exchange risk associated with intercompany Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, financing.
These instruments consist of swap and forward foreign in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some exchange contracts.
The Company does not apply hedge portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
The fair values of these instruments are included on the balance sheet in current assets n Earnings per share liabilities, with changes in the fair value recognized in the Basic earnings per share is based upon net income attributable consolidated statements of income.
The cash flows relating to to Shire plc divided by the weighted average number of Ordinary these instruments are presented within net cash provided by Shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows, is based upon net income attributable to Shire plc adjusted for unless the derivative instruments are economically hedging the impact of interest expense on convertible debt on an specific investing or financing activities.
if-converted basis when the effect is dilutive and prior to the actual conversion or redemption of debt divided by the weighted 108 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information and, accordingly, records these investments at their fair values 2.
Summary of significant with unrealized holding gains and losses included in the accounting policies continued consolidated statement of comprehensive income, net of any related tax effect.
Realized gains and losses, and declines in r Inventories value of available-for-sale securities judged to be  are stated at the lower of cost or market.
Cost temporary, are included in other income, net.
The cost of incurred in bringing each product to its present location and securities sold is based on the specific identification method.
condition is based on purchase costs calculated on a first-in, Interest on securities classified as available-for-sale are included first-out basis, including transportation costs.
Inventories include costs relating to both marketed products and, u Property, plant and equipment for certain products, cost incurred prior to regulatory approval.
Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost reduced for Inventories are capitalized prior to regulatory approval if the impairment losses, net of accumulated depreciation.
The cost of Company considers that it is probable that the US Food and significant assets includes capitalized interest incurred during the Drug Administration FDA or another regulatory body will grant construction period.
Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line commercial and manufacturing approval for the relevant product, basis at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated and it is probable that the value of capitalized inventories will be residual value of each asset over its estimated useful life as recovered through commercial sale.
follows: Inventories are written down for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the Buildings 15 to 50 years costof inventory and estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
Office furniture, fittings and 3 to 10 years Ifactual market conditions are less favorable than those equipment anticipated, inventory adjustments may be required.
Warehouse, laboratory and s Assets held-for-sale manufacturing equipment 3 to 15 years An asset or asset disposal group is classified as held-for-sale when, amongst other things, the Company has committed to a The cost of land is not depreciated.
Assets under the course of plan of disposition, the asset or asset disposal group is available construction are not depreciated until the relevant assets are for immediate sale, and the plan is not expected to change available and ready for their intended use.
Assets held-for-sale are carried at the lower of their Expenditures for maintenance and repairs are charged to the carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.
consolidated statements of income as incurred.
The costs of The Company does not record depreciation or amortization on major renewals and improvements are capitalized.
At the time assets classified as held-for-sale.
property, plant and equipment is retired or otherwise disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are eliminated from the t Investments asset and accumulated depreciation accounts.
The profit or loss The Company has certain investments in pharmaceutical and on such disposition is reflected in operating income.
v Goodwill and other intangible assets Investments are accounted for using the equity method of i Goodwill accounting if the investment gives the Company the ability to In business combinations completed subsequent to January 1, exercise significant influence, but not control over, the investee.
2009, goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the Significant influence is generally deemed to exist if the Company consideration given and the fair value of any non-controlling has an ownership interest in the voting stock of the investee interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets between 20% and 50%, although other factors such as and liabilities acquired.
For business combinations completed representation on the investees Board of Directors and the prior to January 1, 2009 goodwill represents the excess of the fair nature of commercial arrangements, are considered in value of the consideration given over the fair value of the determining whether the equity method of accounting is identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Under the equity method of accounting, the Company records its investments in equity-method investees in Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is reviewed for impairment, the consolidated balance sheet under Investments and its share at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances of the investees earnings or losses together with other-thanindicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
For the temporary impairments in value under equity in earnings of equity purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill for method investees in the consolidated statements of income.
impairment, goodwill has been allocated to the Companys reporting unit.
Events or changes in circumstances which could All other equity investments, which consist of investments for trigger an impairment review include but are not limited to: which the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant underperformance of the reporting unit relative to significant influence, are accounted for under the cost method or expected historical or projected future operating results: at fair value.
Investments in private companies are carried at cost, significant changes in the manner of the Companys use of less provisions for other-than-temporary impairment in value.
For acquired assets or the strategy for the overall business: and public companies that have readily determinable fair values, the significant negative industry trends.
Company classifies its equity investments as available-for-sale WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 109 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued w Non-monetary transactions 2.
Summary of significant The Company enters into certain non-monetary transactions that accounting policies continued involve either the granting of a license over the Companys patents or the disposal of an asset or group of assets in Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying exchange for a nonmonetary asset, usually equity.
The value of the reporting units net assets including allocated Company accounts for these transactions at fair value if the goodwill to the fair value of the reporting unit.
If the reporting Company is able to determine the fair value within reasonable units carrying amount is greater than its fair value, a second step limits.
To the extent the Company concludes that it is unable to is performed whereby the portion of the reporting units fair value determine the fair value of a transaction that transaction is relating to goodwill is compared to the carrying value of the accounted for at the recorded amounts of the assets exchanged.
The Company recognizes a goodwill Management is required to exercise its judgment in determining impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value of whether or not the fair value of the asset received or given up can goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value.
In the year to December be determined.
31, 2013 the Company has recorded an impairment charge of $198.9 million related to the goodwill allocated to the Companys x New accounting pronouncements adopted during the former Regenerative Medicine RM reporting unit.
See Note 12 period for further details.
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets Other than Goodwill ii Other intangible assets Impairment Testing Other intangible assets principally comprise intellectual property In July 2012 the Financial Accounting Standard Board FASB rights for products with a defined revenue stream, acquired issued guidance on the testing of indefinite-lived intangible assets product technology and IPR&D.
Intellectual property rights for for impairment.
The guidance permits an entity to first assess currently marketed products and acquired product technology qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or are recorded at fair value and amortized over the estimated useful circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than life of the related product, which ranges from 1 to 20 years not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less weighted average 10.1 years.
IPR&D acquired through a than its carrying amount.
If, after assessing the totality of events business combination is capitalized as an indefinite lived or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of the not that the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset is less associated R&D efforts.
IPR&D is reviewed for impairment using a than its carrying amount, performing the impairment test is one-step approach which compares the fair value of the IPR&D unnecessary.
The more-likely-than-not threshold is defined as a asset with its carrying amount.
An impairment loss is recognized likelihood of more than 50 percent.
An entity also has the option to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the to bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived IPR&D asset.
Once the R&D efforts are completed the useful life intangible asset in any period and proceed directly to performing of the relevant assets will be determined, and the IPR&D asset the impairment test and may resume performing the qualitative amortized over this useful economic life.
assessment in any subsequent period.
The guidance has been The following factors, where applicable, are considered in adopted prospectively from January 1, 2013.
The adoption of the estimating the useful lives of Other intangible assets: guidance did not impact the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
expected use of the asset: Disclosure about offsetting assets and liabilities regulatory, legal or contractual provisions, including the In December 2011 the FASB issued guidance on disclosures regulatory approval and review process, patent issues and about offsetting assets and liabilities.
In January 2013 the FASB actions by government agencies: amended the previous guidance to clarify the scope of guidance the effects of obsolescence, changes in demand, competing issued in December 2011.
The amended guidance requires products and other economic factors, including the stability of entities to disclose both gross and net information about the market, known technological advances, development of derivatives including bifurcated embedded derivatives, competing drugs that are more effective clinically or repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements, economically: and securities borrowing and securities lending transactions that are either offset in accordance with FASB guidance on topics actions of competitors, suppliers, regulatory agencies or others Balance Sheet and Derivatives and Hedging or subject to an that may eliminate current competitive advantages: and enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement: to enable users of financial statements to understand the effects or historical experience of renewing or extending similar potential effects of those arrangements on its financial position.
The guidance has been adopted prospectively from January 1, When a number of factors apply to an intangible asset, these 2013.
The adoption of the guidance did not impact the factors are considered in combination when determining the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations appropriate useful life for the relevant asset.
Enhanced disclosure of balance sheet offsetting as required by this guidance is included in Note 21.
110 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Statutory accounts of the Company, consisting of the solus 2.
Summary of significant accounts of Shire plc for the year to December 31, 2013 prepared accounting policies continued under UK GAAP and in compliance with Jersey law will be delivered to the Registrar of Companies in Jersey in 2014.
The Amounts reclassified out of Comprehensive Income Company further expects to file the consolidated accounts of the In February 2013 the FASB issued guidance on reporting Company for the year to December 31, 2013, prepared in amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive accordance with US GAAP, in fulfillment of the Companys UKLA income.
The guidance requires entities to provide information annual reporting requirements with the UKLA in 2014. about the amount reclassified out of comprehensive income by component and presents either on the face of the financial Statutory accounts of the Company, consisting of the solus statements or in the notes, significant amounts reclassified out of accounts of Shire plc for the year to December 31, 2012 prepared other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net under UK GAAP and in compliance with Jersey law have been income, but only if the amount reclassified is required under US delivered to the Registrar of Companies for Jersey.
The GAAP to be reclassified to net income in its entirety in the same consolidated accounts of the Company for the year ended reporting period.
For other amounts that are not required under December 31, 2012 prepared in accordance with US GAAP, in US GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income, an fulfillment of the Companys United Kingdom Listing Authority entity is required to cross-reference to other disclosures required UKLA annual reporting requirements were filed with the UKLA.
under US GAAP that provide additional detail about those The auditors reports on these accounts were unqualified.
The guidance has been adopted prospectively from January 1, 2013.
The adoption of the guidance did not impact the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations 3.
Critical accounting estimates or cash flows.
The preparation of consolidated financial statements, in Presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the In July 2013 the FASB issued guidance on the financial statement United States US GAAP and SEC regulations, requires presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the loss carry forward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carry forward reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of exists.
The guidance requires entities to present an unrecognized contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated tax benefit or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit in the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a expenses during the reporting period.
Estimates and net operating loss carry forward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit assumptions are primarily made in relation to the valuation of carry forward, except as follows: to the extent a net operating intangible assets, sales deductions, income taxes including loss carry forward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carry forward provisions for uncertain tax positions and the realization of is not available at the reporting date under the tax law of the deferred tax assets, provisions for litigation and legal applicable jurisdiction to settle any additional income taxes that proceedings, contingent consideration receivable from product would result from the disallowance of a tax position or the tax law divestments, contingent consideration payable in respect of of the applicable jurisdiction does not require the entity to use, business combinations and asset purchases and noncurrent and the entity does not intend to use, the deferred tax asset for assets or disposal groups classified as held for sale.
If actual such purpose, the unrecognized tax benefit should be presented results differ from the Companys estimates, or to the extent in the financial statements as a liability and should not be these estimates are adjusted in future periods, the Companys combined with deferred tax assets.
The assessment of whether a results of operations could either benefit from, or be adversely deferred tax asset is available is based on the unrecognized tax affected by, any such change in estimate.
benefit and deferred tax asset that exist at the reporting date and i Valuation of intangible assets should be made presuming disallowance of the tax position at In accordance with US GAAP the Company classifies intangible the reporting date.
The guidance will be effective for fiscal years, assets into three categories: 1 finite lived intangible assets, which and interim periods within those years, beginning after December are amortized over their estimated useful lives: 2 intangible 15, 2013, with early adoption permitted.
The Company has assets with indefinite lives, which are not subject to amortization: adopted this guidance in the period.
The adoption of the and 3 goodwill.
guidance did not materially impact the Companys consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
At December 31, 2013 the carrying value of the Companys finite y Statutory accounts lived intangible assets was $1,361 million 2012: $2,157 million, The consolidated financial statements as at December 31, 2013 the carrying value of the Companys indefinite lived intangible and 2012, and for each of the two years in the period to assets was $952 million 2012: $231 million, and the carrying December 31, 2013 do not comprise statutory accounts within value of the Companys goodwill was $625 million 2012: $645 the meaning of Section 434 of the UK Companies Act 2006 or million.
The Companys indefinite lived intangible assets relate Article 104 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. solely to IPR&D assets acquired through business combinations.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 111 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Initial valuation of indefinite lived intangible assets IPR&D 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued IPR&D represents the fair value assigned to incomplete 1.
Initial valuation of intangible assets acquired through technologies and development projects that the Company has businesscombinations acquired through business combinations which completed after The Company accounts for business combinations using the January 1, 2009 which, at the time the business combination acquisition method of accounting, which requires that the assets closed, had not reached technological feasibility or which had no acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of alternative future use.
At December 31, 2013 the carrying value of acquisition at their respective fair values.
Any excess of the fair the Companys indefinite lived intangible assets IPR&D was value of consideration given and the fair value of any $952 million, primarily representing the following pipeline noncontrolling interest over the fair values of the identifiable programs or products: Lifitegrast SHP606 for the treatment assets and liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The ofDry Eye disease $412 million : rC7, for the treatment of DEB determination of estimated fair values of acquired intangible $177 million : SHP602, an iron chelating agent for the treatment assets, as well as the useful economic life ascribed to finite lived of iron overload secondary to chronic transfusion $166 million : intangible assets, requires the use of significant judgement.
The and PREMIPLEX SHP607 for the treatment of Retinopathy of use of different estimates and assumptions to those used by the Prematurity $153 million.
Company could result in a materially different valuation of The fair value of IPR&D assets is determined using the income acquired intangible assets, which could have a material effect on approach on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period the Companys results of operations.
The fair value of the acquired IPR&D Initial valuation of finite lived intangible assets assets has been based on the present value of probability At December 31, 2013 the carrying value of the Companys finite adjusted incremental cash flows which a market participant lived intangible assets was $1,361 million primarily representing would expect the IPR&D projects to generate after the deduction the following products: VYVANSE $737 million, REPLAGAL of contributory asset charges for other assets employed in these $220 million, FIRAZYR $200 million and RESOLOR projects.
This method incorporates an evaluation of the $121million.
probability of success of each development project, and the application of an appropriate market participant discount rate The fair values of all finite lived identifiable intangible assets, for commensurate with the projects stage of completion, the nature commercialized products and developed product technologies, of the product, the scientific data associated with the technology, acquired through business combinations have been determined the current patent situation and market competition.
using an income approach on a project-by-project basis using the multi-period excess earnings method.
The multi-period The cash flows that will ultimately be generated by IPR&D excess earnings method starts with a forecast of all expected projects are subject to major risks and uncertainties including future net cash flows which a market participant could have either whether the IPR&D projects will be completed in a timely manner, generated or saved as a result of ownership of the intellectual if at all, whether the necessary regulatory approvals will be property, customer relationships, product technologies and other obtained and how commercially successful the project will be intangible assets.
These cash flows are then adjusted to present subsequent to commercial launch.
The Company is required to value by applying a market participant discount rate that reflects use estimates and assumptions in relation to these risks and the risk factors that a market participant would associate with the uncertainties when valuing IPR&D projects.
The use of different cash flows to the extent the underlying cash flows have not estimates and assumptions to those used by the Company could similarly been risk adjusted.
Forecasting these future cash flows result in a materially different valuation of the related IPR&D.
requires various assumptions to be made.
These valuations are However, as the valuation process for IPR&D involves a number based on information at the time of the acquisition of the of inter-relating assumptions, the Company does not consider it identifiable intangible assets, and the expectations and meaningful to quantify the sensitivity of the valuation of IPR&D to assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the changes in any individual assumption.
Companys management and ii are based on information, The initial valuation of indefinite lived IPR&D is based on expectations and assumptions that would be available to and information that existed at the time of the acquisition of the made by a market participant.
No assurance can be given, relevant development project, and utilizes expectations and however, that the underlying assumptions or events associated assumptions that i have been deemed reasonable by the with such valuations will occur as projected.
For these reasons, Companys management, and ii are based on information, among others, actual cash flows may differ from these forecasts expectations and assumptions that would be available to and and, dependent on the outcome of future events or made by a market participant.
However, no assurance can be circumstances, impairment losses as outlined below may result.
given that the underlying assumptions or estimates associated The use of different estimates and assumptions to those used by with the valuation of IPR&D will occur as projected.
If IPR&D the Company could result in a materially different valuation of projects fail during development, are abandoned, or do not finite lived intangible assets.
However, as the valuation process for receive the relevant regulatory approvals, the Company may not intangible assets involves a number of inter-related assumptions, realize the future cash flows that it has estimated nor recover the the Company does not consider it meaningful to quantify the value of the R&D investment made subsequent to acquisition of sensitivity of the valuation of intangible assets to changes in any the project.
If such circumstances occur, the Companys future individual assumption.
operating results could be materially adversely impacted.
112 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information vii a significant deterioration in a products operating 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued performance compared to expectations: and 2.
Subsequent measurement of intangible assets viii an expectation that the intangible asset will be divested Finite lived intangible assets estimation of amortization charges before the end of its previously estimated useful life.
and impairment losses Managements estimate of the useful life of its finite lived intangible The occurrence of any such events or circumstances may result assets considers, amongst other things, the following factors: in the Company reducing the estimated future net cash flows to be generated by, and the fair value of, its finite lived intangible i the expected use of the finite lived intangible asset by the assets and therefore give rise to an impairment loss.
Company: As a result of divestment of DERMAGRAFT to Organogenesis, ii any legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that may limit the Company has reclassified the DERMAGRAFT intangible asset or extend the useful life: and other assets subject to disposal as Assets held for sale and iii the effects of demand and competition, including the launch recorded an impairment charge of $611.4 million, measured at fair of generic products: and value less costs to sell, in the year to December 31, 2013.
In the year to December 31, 2012 the Company recognized impairment iv other general economic and or industry specific factors such losses of $126.7 million to write-down its RESOLOR finite lived as the stability of the industry, known technological intangible assets to their fair value.
advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in Dependent on future events or circumstances, the Companys distribution channels.
operating results could be materially and adversely affected by future impairment losses relating to its finite lived intangible The Company reviews the useful life of its intangible assets assets.
subject to amortization at each reporting period, and revises its estimate of the useful life if warranted by events or circumstances.
Indefinite lived intangible assets IPR&D estimation Any future changes to the useful life of the Companys finite lived of impairment losses intangible assets could result in higher or lower amortization The Company reviews its indefinite lived intangible assets which charges in future periods, which could materially affect the currently only relate to IPR&D assets for impairment annually or Companys results from operations.
more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.
Indefinite lived assets are The Company reviews its finite lived intangible assets for reviewed for impairment by comparing the fair value of the impairment using a two-step approach, whenever events or indefinite lived asset based on market participant assumptions circumstances suggest that the carrying value of its finite lived with its carrying amount.
An impairment loss is recognized to the intangible assets may not be recoverable.
Under step one, if the extent that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of undiscounted cash flows resulting from the use and ultimate the relevant indefinite lived intangible asset.
disposition of the finite lived intangible asset based on entity specific assumptions are less than its carrying value, the Events or circumstances that could suggest that the Companys intangible asset is considered not to be recoverable.
The IPR&D assets may not be recoverable, and which would lead to impairment loss is determined under step two as the amount by an evaluation of the relevant asset for impairment, include those which the carrying value of the intangible asset exceeds its fair factors considered for finite lived intangible assets outlined value based on market participant assumptions.
above as well as any adverse changes to the technological or commercial viability of the IPR&D projects, which could include Events or circumstances that could suggest that the Companys abandonment of the IPR&D project or a decline in its estimated finite lived intangible assets may not be recoverable, and which commercial potential.
The occurrence of any such events or would lead to an evaluation of the recoverability of the relevant circumstances could result in the Company reducing the asset, include but are not limited to, the following: estimated future net cash flows to be generated by, and the fair i changes to a products commercialization strategy: value of, its indefinite lived intangible assets and therefore give rise to an impairment loss.
ii the loss of patent protection, regulatory exclusivity or challenge or circumvention by competitors of the Companys After the identification of any such events or circumstances, and regulatory exclusivity patents: the resultant impairment reviews, the Company recognized impairment losses of $19.9 million in the year to December 31, iii the development and marketing of competitive products, 2013 2012: $71.2 million to write-down its RESOLOR IPR&D including generic entrants into the marketplace: assets to their fair value See Note 13, Other intangible assets, net to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this iv changes to the product labels, or other regulatory Annual Report for details.
Dependent on future events or intervention: circumstances, the Companys operating results could be v sustained government pressure on prices and, specifically, materially and adversely affected by future impairment losses competitive pricing: relating to its indefinite lived intangible assets.
vi the occurrence of significant adverse events in respect to the Companys products: WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Medicaid and Managed Care Rebates 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued Statutory and any supplemental rebates to State Medicaid Goodwill estimation of impairment losses agencies and contractual rebates to MCOs under managed care The Company reviews goodwill for impairment at least annually, programs are based on statutory or negotiated discounts to the or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate the selling price.
Medicaid rebates generally increase as a percentage carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable.
of the selling price over the life of the product if prices increase faster than general inflation.
The Company reviews goodwill for impairment by firstly comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying value.
As it can take up to six months for information to reach the If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then Company on actual usage of the Companys products in the goodwill is considered recoverable and no further testing is managed care and Medicaid programs and on the total rebates performed.
If the carrying value of a reporting unit is greater than to be reimbursed, the Company estimates the reserves required its fair value, then goodwill is considered impaired and a further for amounts payable under these programs relating to sold test is performed to determine the amount by which the carrying products.
value of a reporting units goodwill exceeds its fair value, with an The amount of these reserves is based on historical experience of impairment loss recognized in an amount equal to that excess.
rebates, the timing of payments, the level of reimbursement The Company determines the fair value of a reporting unit and if claims, changes in prices both normal selling prices and required the fair value of its goodwill through a present value statutory or negotiated prices, changes in prescription demand technique, principally using the income approach.
The patterns, projected product returns and the levels of inventory in determination of fair value of a reporting unit requires the use of the distribution channel.
Adjustments are made for known significant judgment and assumptions, which include, amongst changes in these factors.
other things, the estimation of future forecast cash flows and an Shires estimates of the level of inventory in the distribution appropriate discount rate used to determine the fair value.
channel are derived from product-by-product inventory data In the first quarter of 2013 the Company identified circumstances provided by wholesalers and results of independently which indicated that the carrying value of goodwill in the RM commissioned retail inventory surveys.
reporting unit may not be recoverable, which triggered an Revisions or clarification of guidelines from the CMS related to impairment test in advance of the annual testing date.
The results State Medicaid and other government program reimbursement of the Companys March 31, 2013 impairment test showed that practices with retroactive application can result in changes to the carrying amount of the RM reporting unit exceeded its fair managements estimates of the rebates reported in prior periods.
value and the implied value of the goodwill was $nil.
As a result the Company recorded an impairment charge of $198.9 million The accrual estimation process for Medicaid and managed care related to the goodwill allocated to the RM reporting unit of which rebates involves in each case a number of interrelating $191.8 million was subsequently presented within discontinued assumptions, which vary for each combination of product and operations See Note 12, Goodwill to the consolidated financial Medicaid agency or MCO.
Accordingly, it would not be statements set forth in this Annual Report for details.
meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not believe that The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment review the effect of these uncertainties, taken as a whole, significantly at October 1, 2013, which indicated that the Companys goodwill impacts the Companys financial condition or results of was recoverable and was not deemed to be at risk of failing the operations.
first step in testing for impairment.
Aggregate accruals for Medicaid and MCO rebates at December ii Sales Deductions 31, 2013 and 2012 were $807.2 million and $640.5 million or 17% Sales deductions consist primarily of statutory rebates to State and 15%, respectively of net product sales.
Historically, actual Medicaid and other government agencies, Medicare Part D rebates have not varied significantly from the reserves provided.
rebates, contractual rebates with Managed Care Organizations MCOs, product returns, sales discounts including trade Product Returns discounts, distribution service fees, wholesaler chargebacks, and The Company typically accepts customer product returns in the allowances for coupon and patient assistance programs.
These following circumstances: a expiration of shelf life: b product deductions are recorded as reductions to revenue in the same damaged while in the Companys possession: c under sales period as the related sales.
Estimates of future obligations are terms that allow for unconditional return guaranteed sales : or d derived from historical experience adjusted to reflect known following product recalls or product withdrawals.
Generally, changes in the factors that impact such reserves.
On the balance returns for expired product are accepted up to one year after sheet the Company records wholesaler chargebacks and trade expiration date of the relevant product and the returned product discounts as a reserve against accounts receivable, whereas all is destroyed.
Depending on the product and the Companys other sales deductions are recorded within current liabilities.
return policy with respect to that product, the Company may either refund the sales price paid by the customer by issuance of The Company has the following significant categories of sales a credit, or exchange the returned product with replacement deductions, all of which involve estimates and judgments which inventory.
The Company typically does not provide cash refunds.
the Company considers to be critical accounting estimates, and require the Company to use information from external sources: 114 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information iii Income Taxes 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued In accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, management is The Company estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that required to develop estimates as to whether a tax benefit should will result in a return by considering relevant factors, including: be recognized in the consolidated financial statements, based on whether it is more likely than not that the technical merits of the i past product returns activity: position will be sustained based on audit by the tax authorities.
ii the duration of time taken for products to be returned: The measurement of the tax benefit recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based upon the largest iii the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: amount of tax benefit that, in managements judgment, is greater than 50% likely to be realized based on a cumulative probability iv product recalls and discontinuances: assessment of the possible outcomes.
In accounting for income v the shelf life of products: tax uncertainties, management is required to make judgments in the determination of the unit of account, the evaluation of the vi the launch of new drugs or new formulations: and facts, circumstances and information in respect of the tax vii the loss of patent protection or new competition.
position taken, together with the estimates of amounts that the Company may be required to pay in ultimate settlement with the The Companys estimates of the level of inventory in the tax authority.
distribution channel are based on product-by-product inventory The Company operates in numerous countries where its income data provided by wholesalers and results of independently tax returns are subject to audit and adjustment by local tax commissioned third party retail inventory surveys.
As the Company operates globally, the nature of the Returns reserves for new products and for those products with uncertain tax positions is often very complex and subject to generic competition generally require a higher level of estimation change and the amounts at issue can be substantial.
The than those for established products without generic competition.
Company develops its cumulative probability assessment to measure uncertain tax positions using internal expertise, For shipments made to support the commercial launch of a new experience and judgment, together with assistance from product which can include guaranteed sales, the Companys professional advisors.
Original estimates are refined as additional policy is to defer recognition of the sales revenue until there is information becomes known.
For example, in the year to evidence of end-patient acceptance of the new product primarily December 31, 2013 the Company recognized additional through third-party prescription data.
For shipments after launch provisions for uncertain tax positions of $91.3 million in relation to under standard terms i. e. not guaranteed sales, the Companys ongoing compliance management for current and prior years.
initial estimates of sales return accruals are primarily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar products shortly after Any outcome upon settlement that differs from the recorded launch.
Once sufficient historical data on actual returns of the provision for uncertain tax positions may result in a materially product are available, the returns provision is based on this data higher or lower tax expense in future periods, which could and any other relevant factors as noted above.
significantly impact the Companys results of operations or financial condition.
However, the Company does not believe it is The Company estimates returns reserves for products with possible to reasonably estimate the potential impact of any such generic competition based on historical sales, the estimated level change in assumptions, estimates or judgments and the resultant of inventory in the distribution channel, product utilization and change, if any, in the Companys provision for uncertain tax rebate data, which are modified through the use of management positions, as any such change is dependent on factors such as judgment to take into account many factors, including, but not future changes in tax law or administrative practice, the amount limited to, current market dynamics, changes in contract terms, and nature of additional taxes which may be asserted by the changes in sales trends and product pricing.
taxation authorities, and the willingness of the relevant tax The accrual estimation process for product returns involves, in authorities to negotiate a settlement for any such position.
each case, a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary for At December 31, 2013 the Company recognized a liability of each combination of product and customer.
Accordingly, it would $355.2 million for total unrecognized tax benefits 2012: $278.7 not be meaningful to quantify the sensitivity to change for any million and had accrued $112.2 million 2012: $119.6 million for individual assumption or uncertainty.
However, Shire does not the payment of interest and penalties.
The Company is required believe that the effect of uncertainties, as a whole, significantly in certain tax jurisdictions to make advance deposits to tax impacts the Companys financial condition or results of authorities on receipt of a tax assessment.
either offset against the income tax liability or establish an income At December 31, 2013 and 2012, provisions for product returns tax receivable but do not reduce the provision for unrecognized were $98.8 million and $90.5 million or 2% and 2% respectively, tax benefits.
Historically, actual returns have not varied significantly from the reserves provided.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The outcomes of these proceedings are not always predictable 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued and can be affected by various factors.
For those legal and other The Company has significant deferred tax assets due to various proceedings for which it is considered at least reasonably tax attributes, including net operating losses NOLs and tax possible that a loss has been incurred, the Company discloses credits from Research and Development and Investment Tax the possible loss or range of possible loss in excess of the Credits principally in the Republic of Ireland, the US, Belgium, recorded loss contingency provision, if any, where such excess is Germany and the UK.
At December 31, 2013 the Company had both material and estimable.
The estimation of the likelihood, gross deferred tax assets of $822 million 2012: $764 million, amount and range of any loss arising from these proceedings against which the Company had recorded valuation allowances requires significant judgment.
Any revisions in the Companys of $282 million 2012: $269 million and deferred tax liabilities of estimates, or outcomes upon settlement that deviate from the $644 million 2012: $740 million.
Companys best estimate may result in an additional expense or credit in a future accounting period, which could materially The realization of these assets is not assured and is dependent impact the Companys financial condition or results of operations.
Management is required to exercise judgment in determining whether it is more likely than not that it would Contingent consideration receivable from product divestments realize these deferred tax assets.
In assessing the need for a At December 31, 2013 the Company has contingent valuation allowance, management weighs all available positive consideration assets of $36.1 million 2012: $38.3 million, all of and negative evidence including cumulative losses in recent which relate to the divestment of DAYTRANA to Noven in October years, expectations of future taxable income, carry forward and 2010. carry back potential under relevant tax law, expiration period of Consideration receivable by the Company on the divestment of tax attributes, taxable temporary differences, and prudent and product rights typically includes up-front receipts and or feasible tax-planning strategies.
A valuation allowance is milestones and royalties which are contingent on the outcome of established where there is an expectation that on the balance of future events with such milestones and royalties being, for probabilities management considers it is more likely than not that example, based upon the future sales performance of the the relevant deferred tax assets will not be realized.
Contingent consideration occasionally events differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that represents a significant proportion of the economic value these estimates are adjusted in the future, any changes to the receivable by the Company for a divested product.
In these valuation allowance could significantly impact the Companys situations the Company initially recognizes this contingent financial condition and results of operations.
consideration as an asset at its divestment date fair value, with iv Litigation and legal proceedings re-measurement of this asset to its then current fair value at The Company has a number of lawsuits pending.
The Companys subsequent balance sheet dates.
principal pending legal and other proceedings are disclosed in The Company estimates the fair value of contingent consideration Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements set forth in this receivable using the income approach, based on a discounted Annual Report.
The Company recognizes loss contingency cash flow method.
This discounted cash flow approach uses provisions for probable losses when management is able to significant unobservable Level 3 inputs as defined in US GAAP reasonably estimate the loss.
When the estimated loss lies within including: the probability weightings applied to different sales a range, the Company records a loss contingency provision scenarios and related forecast future royalties receivable under based on its best estimate of the probable loss.
If no particular scenarios developed by the Company: and the discount rate to amount within that range is a better estimate than any other be applied in calculating the present value of these forecast future amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
Estimates of losses cash flows.
Significant judgment is employed by the Company in may be developed substantially before the ultimate loss is known, developing these estimates and assumptions.
If actual events and are therefore refined each accounting period as additional differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these information becomes known.
In instances where the Company is estimates are adjusted in the future, the Companys financial unable to develop a reasonable estimate of loss, no loss condition and results of operations could be affected in the contingency provision is recorded at that time.
As information period of any such change of estimate.
becomes known a loss contingency provision is recorded when a reasonable estimate can be made.
These estimates are reviewed v Contingent consideration payable quarterly and changed when expectations are revised.
An The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration payable outcome that deviates from the Companys estimate may result in at December 31, 2013 was $405.9 million December 31, 2012: an additional expense or credit in a future accounting period.
December 31, 2013 provisions for litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled $72.7 million December 31, 2012: $130.5 million.
116 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued 4. Business combinations Acquisition of ViroPharma Inc. ViroPharma Contingent consideration payable represents i future milestones On November 11, 2013, the Company signed a definitive the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with various agreement to acquire all of the outstanding share capital of business combinations and ii future royalties payable as a result ViroPharma for $50 per share in cash or approximately $4,200 of certain business combinations and licenses.
The transaction was completed on January 24, 2014 at ultimately payable by Shire are dependent upon i the successful which time ViroPharma became a wholly-owned subsidiary.
achievement of the relevant milestones and ii future net sales of the relevant products over the life of the royalty term respectively.
ViroPharma is a high growth, rare disease Biopharmaceutical Company, whose commercial product CINRYZE C1 esterase The Company re-measures its contingent consideration payable inhibitor human, is a leading brand for the prophylactic treatment to fair value at each balance sheet date.
Gains or losses arising of Hereditary Angioedema HAE.
on changes to the fair value of contingent consideration payable are recorded within Integration and acquisition costs in the The acquisition of ViroPharma will be accounted for as a business Companys consolidated income statement.
combination using the acquisition method.
The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from ViroPharma will be recorded at The Company estimates the fair value of contingent consideration the date of acquisition, at their fair value.
The Companys payable using the income approach, based on a discounted cash consolidated financial statements will reflect these fair values at, flow method.
The discounted cash flow method uses significant and the results of ViroPharma will be included in the Companys unobservable Level 3 inputs as defined under US GAAP, consolidated statement of income from, January 24, 2014.
As the including: the probability of, and period in which, the relevant initial accounting for the business combination has not yet been milestone event is expected to be achieved: the amount of completed, further disclosure relating to this acquisition will be royalties that will be payable based on forecast net sales of the included in the Companys Form 10-Q for the three months relevant products: and the discount rates to be applied in ended March 31, 2014. calculating the present values of the relevant milestone or royalty.
Significant judgment is employed by the Company in developing In the year to December 31, 2013 the Company expensed costs these estimates and assumptions.
If actual events differ from of $12.8 million 2012: $nil relating to the acquisition of managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates ViroPharma, which have been recorded within integration and are adjusted in the future, the Companys financial condition and acquisition costs in the Companys consolidated income results of operations could be materially affected in the period of statement.
any such change of estimate.
Acquisition of SARcode Bioscience Inc. SARcode vi Assets held for sale On April 17, 2013, Shire completed the acquisition of 100% of the Assets held for sale comprise noncurrent assets or disposal outstanding share capital of SARcode.
The acquisition date fair groups together with any liabilities, the carrying amounts of value of consideration totaled $368 million, comprising cash which will be realized principally through a sale transaction consideration paid on closing of $151 million and the acquisition expected to conclude within the next twelve months, rather than date fair value of contingent consideration payable of $217 million.
Following top-line Phase 3 study results in December 2013, the maximum amount of contingent cash consideration which may At December 31, 2013 the Company has presented $31.6 million now be payable by Shire in future periods is $225 million 2012: $nil of net assets as assets held for sale in the dependent upon achievement of certain net sales milestones.
The assets and liabilities within this disposal group all relate to the disposal of the DERMAGRAFT This acquisition brings the global rights of a new Phase 3 asset group, which was announced on January 16, 2014. compound, Lifitegrast, currently under development for the treatment of Dry Eye disease, into Shires portfolio.
Top-line At the time of their classification as held for sale, such assets results from OPUS-2, a Phase 3 efficacy and safety study of 5.0% are collectively measured at the lower of their carrying amount Lifitegrast ophthalmic solution, were announced on 6 December and fair value less costs to sell, and depreciation or amortization 2013.
Shire intends to investigate the full data from OPUS-2 and ceases.
An impairment charge of $636.9 million was recorded in is planning further interactions with the FDA in the first half of the fourth quarter of 2013 reflecting the adjustment of the 2014 in order to advance this program.
DERMAGRAFT disposal groups carrying amount to its fair value less cost to sell.
The acquisition of SARcode has been accounted as a business combination using the acquisition method.
The assets and Significant judgment is employed by the Company in assessing: liabilities assumed from SARcode have been recorded at their at what point all the held for sale presentation conditions are met fairvalues at the date of acquisition, being April 17, 2013.
The for the disposal group: whether it is necessary to allocate Companys consolidated financial statements and results of goodwill to the disposal group: and estimating both the fair value operations include the results of SARcode from April 17, 2013. of the disposal group and the incremental costs to transact a sale Inthe year to December 31, 2013 the Companys consolidated of the disposal group.
If actual events differ from managements income statement includes pre-tax losses of $26.0 million in estimates, or to the extent that estimates of selling price or costs relation to the post acquisition results of SARcode.
to sell are adjusted in the future, the Companys financial condition and results of operations could be affected in the period of any such change of estimate.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued In the year to December 31, 2013 the Company expensed costs 4. Business combinations continued of $9.5 million 2012: $nil relating to the acquisition of Premacure The purchase price has been allocated to acquired in process including charges related to the change in fair value of contingent research and development IPR&D in respect of Lifitegrast consideration payable, which have been recorded within $412 million, net current liabilities assumed $8.2 million, net integration and acquisition costs in the Companys consolidated non-current liabilities assumed, including deferred tax liabilities income statement.
This acquisition Acquisition of Lotus Tissue Repair, Inc Lotus resulted in goodwill of $86.6 million, which is not deductible for On February 12, 2013, the Company completed the acquisition of tax purposes.
Goodwill includes the value of the assembled 100% of the outstanding share capital of Lotus.
The acquisition workforce and the related scientific expertise in ophthalmology date fair value of consideration totaled $174.2 million, comprising which allows for potential expansion into a new therapeutic area.
cash consideration paid on closing of $49.4 million, and the fair In the year to December 31, 2013 the Company recorded a net value of contingent consideration payable of $124.8 million.
The credit of $170.7 million 2012: $nil within Integration and maximum amount of contingent cash consideration which may acquisition costs relating to the acquisition of SARcode.
This be payable by the Company in future periods is $275 million.
The amount principally comprises a credit of $176.0 million on amount of contingent cash consideration ultimately payable by re-measuring the fair value of the contingent consideration the Company is dependent upon achievement of certain payable following OPUS-2 trial results.
In addition, acquisition and pre-clinical and clinical development milestones.
integration costs related to SARcode amounted to $15.3 million.
Lotus is developing a proprietary recombinant form of human Acquisition of Premacure AB Premacure collagen Type VII rC7 as the first and only intravenous protein On March 8, 2013 the Company completed the acquisition of replacement therapy currently being investigated for the 100% of the outstanding share capital of Premacure.
The treatment of Dystrophic Epidermolysis Bullosa DEB.
DEB is a acquisition date fair value of the consideration totaled $140.2 devastating orphan disease for which there is no currently million, comprising cash consideration paid on closing of $30.6 approved treatment option other than palliative care.
The million, and the fair value of contingent consideration payable of acquisition adds to the Companys pipeline a late stage pre- $109.6 million.
The maximum amount of contingent cash clinical product for the treatment of DEB with global rights.
consideration which may be payable by the Company in future The acquisition of Lotus has been accounted for as a business periods, dependent upon the successful completion of certain combination using the acquisition method.
The assets and the development and commercial milestones, is $169 million.
The liabilities assumed from Lotus have been recorded at their fair Company will also pay royalties on relevant net sales.
values at the date of acquisition, being February 12, 2013.
The Premacure is developing a protein replacement therapy Companys consolidated financial statements and results of PREMIPLEX, currently in Phase 2 development, for the operations include the results of Lotus from February 12, 2013. prevention of Retinopathy of Prematurity ROP.
ROP is a rare The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D in and potentially blinding eye disorder that primarily affects respect of rC7 $176.7 million, net current assets assumed $6.8 premature infants and is one of the most common causes of million, net non-current liabilities assumed, including deferred tax visual loss in childhood.
Together, the acquisitions of SARcode liabilities $63.4 million and goodwill $54.1 million.
This and Premacure build the Companys presence in the acquisition resulted in goodwill of $54.1 million, which is not ophthalmology therapeutic area.
The acquisition of Premacure has been accounted for as a In the year to December 31, 2013, the Company expensed costs business combination using the acquisition method.
The assets of $2.3 million 2012: $0.5 million relating to the acquisition of and the liabilities assumed from Premacure have been recorded Lotus, which have been recorded within integration and at their fair values at the date of acquisition, being March 8, 2013. acquisition costs in the Companys consolidated income The Companys consolidated financial statements and results of statement.
operations include the results of Premacure from March 8, 2013.
Acquisition of FerroKin BioSciences, Inc. FerroKin The purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D in On April 2, 2012, the Company completed the acquisition of respect of PREMIPLEX $151.8 million, net current liabilities 100% of the outstanding share capital of FerroKin.
The assumed $11.7 million, net non-current liabilities assumed, acquisition-date fair value of consideration totalled $159.3 million, including deferred tax liabilities $29.5 million and goodwill $29.6 comprising cash consideration paid on closing of $94.5 million million.
This acquisition resulted in goodwill of $29.6 million, and the fair value of contingent consideration payable of $64.8 which is not deductible for tax purposes.
The maximum amount of contingent cash consideration which may be payable by the Company in future periods is $225.0 million.
The amount of contingent cash consideration ultimately payable by the Company is dependent upon the achievement of certain clinical development, regulatory and net sales milestones.
118 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The acquisition has been accounted for as a business 4. Business combinations continued combination using the acquisition method.
The assets acquired The acquisition of FerroKin adds global rights to a Phase 2 and the liabilities assumed from Pervasis have been recorded at product, SHP602 formerly referred to as FBS0701, to the their fair values at the date of acquisition, being April 19, 2012.
SHP602 is intended to serve a chronic The Companys consolidated financial statements and results of patient need for treatment of iron overload following numerous operations include the results of the assets acquired and the blood transfusions.
Together with the Companys collaboration liabilities assumed from Pervasis from April 19, 2012.
The with Sangamo Biosciences Inc. Sangamo, this acquisition is purchase price has been allocated to acquired IPR&D principally a strategic step in building the Companys hematology business, for VASCUGEL $24.3 million, current liabilities assumed $0.2 which already includes XAGRID and a growing development million and goodwill $2.0 million.
Goodwill arising of $2.0 million pipeline.
is not deductible for tax purposes.
The acquisition of FerroKin has been accounted for as a business Acquisition of Advanced BioHealing, Inc. ABH combination using the acquisition method.
The assets acquired On June 28, 2011, the Company completed its acquisition of and the liabilities assumed from FerroKin have been recorded at 100% of the outstanding shares and other equity instruments of their fair values at the date of acquisition, being April 2, 2012.
The fair value of cash consideration paid by the Company Companys consolidated financial statements and results of during 2011 was $739.6 million.
operations include the results of FerroKin from April 2, 2012.
In The acquisition of ABH added the DERMAGRAFT product, a the year to December 31, 2012 the Company included pre-tax bio-engineered skin substitute, to the Companys portfolio.
On losses of $19.1 million, for FerroKin within its consolidated January 16, 2014, the Company sold the DERMAGRAFT statement of income.
The purchase price has been allocated to acquired in-process The acquisition of ABH was accounted for as a business research and development IPR&D in respect of SHP602 combination using the acquisition method.
The assets acquired $166.0 million, net current liabilities assumed $6.6 million, net and the liabilities assumed from ABH have been recorded at their non-current liabilities assumed including deferred tax liabilities fair values at the date of acquisition, being June 28, 2011.
The $46.2 million and goodwill $46.1 million.
Goodwill arising of determination of final fair values was completed on June 28, $46.1 million is not deductible for tax purposes.
The Companys consolidated financial statements and In the year to December 31, 2013 the Company expensed costs results of operations include the results of ABH from June 28, of $10.4 million 2012: $12.1 million relating to the FerroKin 2011.
The amount of ABHs revenues and pre-tax losses included acquisition, which have been recorded within Integration and in the Companys consolidated statement of income for the year acquisition costs in the Companys consolidated statement of ended December 31, 2011 were $105.3 million and $15.3 million income.
after intangible asset amortization of $20.0 million respectively.
Acquisition of certain assets & liabilities of Pervasis Therapeutics, Inc. Pervasis On April 19, 2012, the Company acquired substantially all the assets and certain liabilities of Pervasis.
The acquisition date fair value of the consideration totaled $26.1 million, comprising cash consideration paid on closing of $2.5 million and the fair value of contingent consideration payable of $23.6 million.
The maximum amount of contingent cash consideration which may be payable by the Company in future periods is up to $169.5 million.
The amount of contingent cash consideration ultimately payable by the Company is dependent upon achievement of certain clinical development, regulatory and net sales milestones.
The acquisition adds SHP613 formerly VASCUGEL to the Companys Regenerative Medicine business.
SHP613 is currently in Phase 2 development for acute vascular repair, focused on improving hemodialysis access for patients with end-stage renal disease.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business combinations continued The Companys allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is outlined below: Fair value $M Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 14.6 Accounts receivable 30.1 Inventories 30.7 Deferred tax assets 51.1 Other current assets 7.9 Total current assets 134.4 Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment 16.6 Goodwill 197.0 Other intangible assets DERMAGRAFT product technology 710.0 other intangible assets 1.5 Other non-current assets 0.2 Total assets 1,059.7 Liabilities Current liabilities: Accounts payable and other current liabilities 52.4 Non-current liabilities: Long term debt, less current portion 9.1 Deferred tax liabilities 258.5 Other non-current liabilities 0.1 Total liabilities 320.1 Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 739.6 Consideration Cash consideration paid 739.6 Supplemental disclosure of pro forma information The unaudited pro forma financial information to present the combined results of the operations of Shire, SARcode, Premacure and Lotus are not provided as the impacts of these acquisitions were not material to the Companys results of continuing operations for any period presented.
Divestment of product rights On October 1, 2010, the Company completed the divestment of DAYTRANA to Noven Noven developed and manufactures DAYTRANA, and the Company licensed DAYTRANA from Noven in 2003.
No consideration was received at the time of divestment, however consideration is receivable from Noven dependent on DAYTRANAs performance in the period subsequent to divestment.
On divestment the Company recorded the fair value of contingent consideration receivable from Noven within current and noncurrent assets.
During the year to December 31, 2013 the Company recognized a gain of $15.9 million 2012: gain of $18.1 million due to changes in the fair value of this contingent consideration.
At December 31, 2013 the Company has recorded a receivable based on the fair value of future contingent consideration totaling $36.1 million 2012: $39.2 million, split between current assets $9.6million 2012: $11.6 million and non-current assets $26.5 million 2012: $27.6 million.
120 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 6.
Reorganization costs Turnhout, Belgium Site Closure On January 23, 2013 the Company announced that it had decided to proceed with a collective dismissal and business closure at its site in Turnhout, Belgium.
This decision follows the conclusion of an information and consultation process.
The Company will continue to sell RESOLOR in Europe and the supply of RESOLOR for patients in Europe who rely on the medicine will not be affected.
The closure of the Turnhout site was completed during 2013.
In the year to December 31, 2013 the Company incurred reorganization costs totaling $23.6 million, relating to employee involuntary termination benefits and other reorganization costs.
One Shire business reorganization On May 2, 2013, the Company announced that there would be a reorganization of the business to integrate the three divisions into asimplified One Shire organization in order to drive future growth and innovation.
On November 7, 2013, the Company announced that, as part of the One Shire reorganization, the Company had undertaken a reviewof all of Shires pipeline programs to identify those projects that fit with Shires new strategic direction and have an acceptable likelihood of success.
Shires pre-clinical investments will now be primarily focused on Rare Diseases, meaning that the majority of other pre-clinical projects will not continue.
Several clinical programs have also been discontinued.
The impact of the prioritization andrationalization of the Companys development portfolio means many of the R&D programs currently run from Basingstoke, UKwill cease.
Taken together with the overall streamlining of the R&D organization, this has resulted in a significant number of R&D roles in Basingstoke being eliminated and some positions being re-located.
A small number of functional roles that support R&D in Basingstoke have also been affected.
In addition the Company also announced plans to relocate its international commercial hub from Nyon, Switzerland to Zug, Switzerland.
All Nyon-based employees have been impacted by the One Shire transition and the proposed move to Zug.
Shire is planning for the new Zug office to be ready for occupancy in summer 2014, and will phase out the Nyon office over a reasonable period of time to enable employees and their families to manage their re-locations.
In the year to December 31, 2013, the Company incurred reorganization costs totaling $64.6 million, relating to employee involuntary termination benefits and other reorganization costs.
The One Shire reorganization is expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2014.
Currently, the Company estimates that further costs in respect of the One Shire reorganization of approximately $150million will be expensed as incurred during 2014.
The liability for reorganization costs arising on the closure of Companys site in Turnhout, Belgium and the One Shire business reorganization at December 31, 2013 is as follows: Opening Closing liability at Amount liability at January 1, charged to December 31, 2013 re-organization Paid Utilized 2013 $M $M $M $M Involuntary termination benefits 44.7 29.4 15.3 Other reorganization costs 43.5 34.0 9.5 88.2 63.4 24.8 At December 31, 2013, the closing reorganization cost liability was recorded within accounts payable and accrued expenses $24.8million.
Accounts receivable, net Accounts receivable at December 31, 2013, of $961.2 million December 31, 2012: $824.2 million, are stated net of a provision for discounts and doubtful accounts of $47.9 million December 31, 2012: $41.7 million.
Provision for discounts and doubtful accounts: 2013 2012 $M $M As at January 1, 41.7 31.1 Provision charged to operations 306.8 283.3 Provision utilization 300.6 272.7 As at December 31, 47.9 41.7 At December 31, 2013 accounts receivable included $37.8 million December 31, 2012: $38.5 million related to royalty income.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market and comprise: December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 $M $M Finished goods 156.6 124.4 Work-in-progress 240.5 220.6 Raw materials 58.2 91.9 455.3 436.9 9.
Results of discontinued operations and assets held for sale On January 16, 2014 the Company entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement the Asset Purchase Agreement with Organogenesis Inc. the Purchaser or Organogenesis, pursuant to which, on January 16, 2014 the Company sold and transferred to the Purchaser certain of the assets the Transferred Assets relating to the manufacturing, marketing, sale and distribution of DERMAGRAFT the Business, and the Purchaser assumed certain of the liabilities relating to the Business.
The Company will receive no upfront payment from the Purchaser but is entitled to receive total milestone payments of up to $300 million in cash if the Purchaser meets certain annual net sales targets during the five consecutive calendar years ending with the calendar year ending December 31, 2018.
The Transferred Assets include intellectual property relating to DERMAGRAFT, including patents, trademarks and know-how, regulatory filings and registrations relating to DERMAGRAFT $611.4 million, certain manufacturing plant, equipment and materials relating to the Business $29.1 million, and DERMAGRAFT product inventory $16.2 million and accounts receivable $11.8 million.
The Company is generally retaining liabilities incurred prior to the date of the Asset Purchase Agreement relating to the DERMAGRAFT business, including the previously disclosed investigation by the US Department of Justice relating to the sales and marketing practices of Advanced Biohealing, Inc. ABH.
The Transferred Assets have been measured at their fair value less costs to sell, amounting to $31.6 million, and are presented within Assets held-for-sale in the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2013.
The fair value of these assets was determined using the income approach, which used significant unobservable Level 3 inputs see Note 22 for further details.
On October 22, 2013 the Company announced that it had decided to discontinue the construction of its new manufacturing facility in San Diego.
The Company is currently assessing disposal options for this facility.
In the year to December 31, 2013, the Company recorded charges of $99.6 million, comprising charges to write down the carrying value of the assets related to this manufacturing facility, accruals for non-cancellable contractual costs in relation to the construction, and a provision for the onerous land lease.
These costs have been presented within discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement.
The operating results associated with the DERMAGRAFT business including the costs of discontinuing the second manufacturing facility, have been classified as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of income for all periods presented.
122 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 9.
Results of discontinued operations and assets held for sale continued The components of discontinued operations which relate to the DERMAGRAFT business are as follows: 2013 2012 $M $M Revenues: Product revenues 89.8 153.8 Loss from discontinued operations before income taxes 1,080.9 96.4 Income taxes 326.4 36.1 Loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes 754.5 60.3 The loss from discontinued operations before income taxes in 2013 includes: $191.8 million, being the proportion of the RM reporting unit goodwill impairment charge recorded in the first quarter of 2013 that relates to the DERMAGRAFT business, $636.9 million being the impairment charge recorded upon re-measurement of the divested assets to their fair value less costs to sell in the fourth quarter of 2013, and $99.6 million being amounts previously recorded to Reorganization costs in relation to the DERMAGRAFT business.
Prepaid expenses and other current assets December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 $M $M Prepaid expenses 29.4 31.7 Income tax receivable 177.4 130.6 Value added taxes receivable 14.5 20.9 Other current assets 41.7 38.6 263.0 221.8 11.
Property, plant and equipment, net December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 $M $M Land and buildings 695.0 701.2 Office furniture, fittings and equipment 467.0 383.8 Warehouse, laboratory and manufacturing equipment 276.2 287.2 Assets under construction 45.6 93.8 1,483.8 1,466.0 Less: Accumulated depreciation 592.0 510.2 891.8 955.8 Depreciation expense for the years to December 31, 2013 and 2012 was $127.6 million and $109.0 million respectively.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Goodwill December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 $M $M Goodwill arising on businesses acquired 624.6 644.5 In the year to December 31, 2013 the Company completed the acquisitions of SARcode, Premacure and Lotus, which resulted in goodwill of $86.6 million, $29.6 million and $54.1 million, respectively see Note 4 for details.
As a result of the re-alignment of the business into a simplified One Shire organization, the Company now comprises one operating and one reportable segment see note 25 for further details.
2013 2012 $M $M As at January 1, 644.5 592.6 Acquisitions 170.3 48.1 Goodwill impairment charge related to continuing operations 7.1 Goodwill impairment charge related to DERMAGRAFT business and transferred to discontinued operations 191.8 Foreign currency translation 8.7 3.8 As at December 31, 624.6 644.5 Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually as at October 1 each year.
This assessment is also performed whenever there is a change in circumstances that indicates the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable.
In the first quarter of 2013 the Company identified circumstances which indicated that the carrying value of goodwill in the Companys former RM reporting unit may not be recoverable, which triggered an impairment test in advance of the annual testing date.
Those circumstances included the results of an independent market research study of the DERMAGRAFT sales potential, commissioned by the Company, which was finalized late in the first quarter of 2013.
In addition, the recently completed restructuring of the RM sales and marketing organization and the implementation of a new commercial model had a more pronounced impact than previously expected.
As a result of those and other factors forecast future sales were lower than at the time of acquisition.
The results of the Companys March 31, 2013 impairment test showed that the carrying amount of the former RM reporting unit exceeded its fair value and the implied value of the goodwill was $nil.
As a result the Company recorded an impairment charge of $198.9 million related to the goodwill allocated to the former RM reporting unit.
The RM goodwill impairment charge is not deductible for tax purposes.
Accumulated goodwill impairment as at December 31, 2013 was $198.9 million December 31, 2012: $nil.
The Company determined the estimated fair value of the RM reporting unit using discounted cash flow analyses, which used significant unobservable Level 3 inputs.
These unobservable inputs included, among other things, expected cash flows for the period from March 31, 2013 to December 31, 2023 and the associated discount rate of 15.1%, which was derived from managements best estimate of the after-tax weighted average cost of capital for the RM reporting unit.
Discounted cash flow analyses are dependent upon a number of quantitative and qualitative factors including estimates of forecasted revenue, profitability, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and terminal values.
The discount rates applied in the discounted cash flow analyses also have an impact on the estimates of fair value, as use of a higher rate will result in a lower estimate of fair value.
Following the divestment of DERMAGRAFT see Note 9 the Company has reclassified the Goodwill and related accumulated impairment of $191.8 million being the portion of the former RM reporting unit goodwill impairment charge that relates to the DERMAGRAFT business to discontinued operations.
124 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 13.
Other intangible assets, net December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 $M $M Amortized intangible assets Intellectual property rights acquired for currently marketed products 2,573.3 2,462.0 Acquired product technology 710.0 Other intangible assets 46.1 44.5 2,619.4 3,216.5 Unamortized intangible assets Intellectual property rights acquired for IPR&D 951.5 231.0 3,570.9 3,447.5 Less: Accumulated amortization 1,258.3 1,059.4 2,312.6 2,388.1 The change in the net book value of other intangible assets for the year to to December 31, 2013 and 2012 is shown in the tablebelow: Other intangible assets 2013 2012 $M $M As at January 1, 2,388.1 2,493.0 Acquisitions 731.8 281.6 Amortization charged 152.0 153.6 Amortization charged on DERMAGRAFT product technology, presented within discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement.
39.4 40.5 Impairment charges 19.9 197.9 Reclassification of DERMAGRAFT product technology to assets held for sale 611.4 Foreign currency translation 15.4 5.5 As at December 31, 2,312.6 2,388.1 In the year to December 31, 2013 the Company acquired intangible assets totaling $731.8 million, relating to intangible assets acquired with SARcode, Premacure and Lotus see Note 4 for further details.
In the second quarter of 2013 the Company reviewed certain intangible assets acquired through Movetis N. V. Movetis for impairment and recognized an impairment charge of $19.9 million 2012: $197.9 million in the consolidated income statement, to write-down these assets to their fair value.
The fair values of these assets were determined using the income approach, which used significant unobservable Level 3 inputs see Note 22 for further details.
Following the divestment of DERMAGRAFT see Note 9 the Company has reclassified $6114.4 million of intangible assets related to the DERMAGRAFT product technology to assets held for sale.
Management estimates that the annual amortization charge in respect of intangible assets held at December 31, 2013 will be approximately $127 million for each of the five years to December 31, 2018.
Estimated amortization expense can be affected by various factors including future acquisitions, disposals of product rights, regulatory approval and subsequent amortization of acquired IPR&D projects, foreign exchange movements and the technological advancement and regulatory approval of competitor products.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Accounts payable and accrued expenses December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 $M $M Trade accounts payable and accrued purchases 202.6 208.1 Accrued rebates Medicaid 549.1 455.6 Accrued rebates Managed care 258.1 184.9 Sales return reserve 98.8 90.5 Accrued bonuses 130.9 109.0 Accrued employee compensation and benefits payable 79.4 64.5 R&D accruals 69.6 73.5 Provisions for litigation losses and other claims 71.7 118.2 Other accrued expenses 228.2 197.2 1,688.4 1,501.5 15.
Other current liabilities December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 $M $M Income taxes payable 69.0 78.4 Value added taxes 15.8 23.6 Contingent consideration payable 12.9 16.0 Other current liabilities 21.8 26.1 119.5 144.1 16.
Convertible bonds Shire 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 On May 9, 2007, Shire issued $1,100 million in principal amount of Bonds.
As of December 31, 2013 all of the Bonds had been converted or redeemed as described below.
On November 26, 2013, Shire issued an optional redemption notice under the Trust Deed to the holders of the Bonds.
The aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Bonds on November 25, 2013, the last practicable date prior to the date of the optional redemption notice, was $1,075,070,000.
The last day on which holders were able to exercise their conversion rights was December 13, 2013.
Those Bonds which were not voluntarily converted by holders were redeemed by the Company on December 27, 2013 at par together with interest accrued to that date.
As at December 31, 2013, Bonds in an aggregate principal amount of the $1,099,050,000 had been voluntarily converted into 33,806,464 fully paid Ordinary Shares at a conversion price of US$32.51 per Ordinary Share, in the capital of the Company, with par value of 0.05 each.
The remaining outstanding Bonds in an aggregate principal amount of $950,000 were redeemed pursuant to the Optional Redemption Notice issued on November 26, 2013.
Following the redemption of all the outstanding Bonds, the Company cancelled the listing of the Bonds on the Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority and the admission to trading of the Bonds on the Professional Securities Market of the London Stock Exchange.
126 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 17.
Other long term debt Term Loan Agreement On November 11, 2013, the Company entered into a $2.60 billion Facilities Agreement with, among others, Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited acting as lead arranger and agent the Facilities Agreement.
The Facilities Agreement comprises two credit facilities: i a $1.75 billion term loan facility and ii a $0.85 billion term loan facility.
On December 13, 2013 and on February 21, 2014, the Company cancelled part of the $2.60 billion term loan facility.
The revised Facilities Agreement of $1.40 billion now comprises two credit facilities: i a $0.55 billion term loan facility and ii a $0.85 billion term loan facility.
All other terms and conditions remained unchanged.
The $0.55 billion term loan facility, which matures on November 10, 2014, may be used only to finance the purchase price payable in respect of the Companys proposed acquisition of ViroPharma including certain related costs and for the redemption of the Companys Bonds.
The Company has the option to extend the maturity of the $0.55 billion term loan facility once by a further 364 days.
The $0.85 billion term loan facility, which matures on November 11, 2015, may be used only to finance the purchase price payable in respect of the Companys proposed acquisition of ViroPharma including certain related costs.
Interest on any loans made under the facilities will be payable on the last day of each interest period, which may be one week or one, two, three or six months at the election of Shire, or as otherwise agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate applicable to the $0.55 billion term loan facility is LIBOR plus 0.75% per annum and increases by 0.25% per annum on August 11, 2014 and on three-month intervals thereafter.
The interest rate applicable to the $0.85 billion term loan facility commenced at LIBOR plus 1.15% per annum until delivery of the compliance certificate for the year ending December 31, 2013 and thereafter is subject to change depending upon the prevailing ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA of the Group each as defined in the Facilities Agreement, in respect of the most recently completed financial year or financial half year.
The Company shall also pay a commitment fee on the available but unutilized commitments under the $0.55 billion term loan facility and the $0.85 billion term loan facility for the availability period applicable to each facility.
With effect from first utilization, the commitment fee rate will be 35% of the applicable margin.
Before first utilization, the commitment fee rate will increase in stages from 0% to 35% of the applicable margin over a period of three months.
The Facilities Agreement includes customary representations and warranties, covenants and events of default, including requirements that the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA of the Group each as defined in the Facilities Agreement must not, at any time, exceed 3.5:1 for the Relevant Period as defined in the Facilities Agreement, except that following certain acquisitions, including the Viropharm acquisition, the Company may elect to increase the ratio to 4.0:1 in the relevant period in which the acquisition was completed and the immediately following relevant period.
In addition, for each 12-month period ending December 31 or June 30, the ratio of EBITDA of the Group to Net Interest each as defined in the Facilities Agreement must not be less than 4.0:1.
The Facilities Agreement restricts subject to certain covenants Shires ability to incur additional financial indebtedness, grant security over its assets or provide or guarantee loans.
Further, any lender may require mandatory prepayment of its participation if there is a change of control of the Company.
In addition, in certain circumstances, the net proceeds of certain shares, undertakings or business disposals by the Company must be applied towards the mandatory prepayment of the facilities, subject to certain exceptions.
Events of default under the facilities include: i non-payment of any amounts due under the facilities, ii failure to satisfy any financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any of the finance documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults, under other financial indebtedness, v certain insolvency events or proceedings, vi material adverse changes in the business, operations, assets or financial condition of the Company and its subsidiaries, vii if it becomes unlawful for the Company or any of its subsidiaries that are parties to the Facilities Agreement to perform their obligations or viii if S the Company or any subsidiary of the Company which is a party to the Facilities Agreement repudiates the Facilities Agreement or any other finance document, among others.
The Facilities Agreement is governed by English law.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Other non-current liabilities December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 $M $M Income taxes payable 115.7 58.9 Deferred revenue 9.8 11.4 Deferred rent 11.3 11.9 Insurance provisions 1.0 12.3 Contingent consideration payable 393.0 120.4 Other non-current liabilities 57.7 26.7 588.5 241.6 19.
Commitments and contingencies a Leases Future minimum lease payments under operating leases at December 31, 2013 are presented below: Operating leases $M 2014 44.9 2015 33.6 2016 23.9 2017 17.9 2018 12.2 Thereafter 83.4 215.9 The Company leases land, facilities, motor vehicles and certain equipment under operating leases expiring through 2032.
Lease and rental expense amounted to $44.0 million and $43.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 respectively, which is predominately included in SG&A expenses in the Companys consolidated income statement.
b Letters of credit and guarantees At December 31, 2013, the Company had irrevocable standby letters of credit and guarantees with various banks and insurance companies totaling $51.0 million, providing security for the Companys performance of various obligations.
These obligations are primarily in respect of the recoverability of insurance claims, lease obligations and supply commitments.
c Collaborative arrangements Details of significant updates in collaborative arrangements are included below: In-licensing arrangements i Research Collaboration with Santaris Pharma A S Santaris on Locked Nucleic Acid LNA Drug Platform On August 24, 2009, the Company announced that it had entered into a research collaboration with Santaris, to develop its proprietary LNA technology in a range of rare diseases.
LNA technology has the benefit of shortened target validation and proof of concept, potentially increasing the speed and lowering the cost of development.
As part of the joint research project Santaris will design, develop and deliver pre-clinical LNA oligonucleotides for the Companyselected orphan disease targets, and the Company will have the exclusive right to further develop and commercialize these candidate compounds on a worldwide basis.
In the year to December 31, 2013 the Company paid success milestones and other support costs of $1.5 million 2012: $3.0 million and $4.5 million 2012: $8.1 million to Santaris respectively, which were expensed to R&D.
The Company has remaining obligations to pay Santaris development and sales milestones up to a maximum of $71.0 million for each current indication.
The Company will also pay single or double digit tiered royalties on net sales of the product.
The Company and Santaris have formed a joint research committee to monitor R&D activities through preclinical lead candidate selection at which point all development and commercialization costs will be the responsibility of the Company.
iii Collaboration and license agreement with Sangamo to develop therapeutics for hemophilia On February 1, 2012 the Company and Sangamo announced that they had entered into a collaboration and license agreement to develop therapeutics for hemophilia and other monogenic diseases based on Sangamos ZFP technology.
Sangamo is responsible for all activities through submission of Investigational New Drug Applications and European Clinical Trial Applications for each product and the Company will reimburse Sangamo for its internal and external research program-related costs.
The Company is responsible for clinical development and commercialization of products arising from the collaboration.
128 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Under the terms of the agreement Nimbus Neptune, Inc. controls 19.
Commitments and and conducts all related research up to achievement of drug contingencies continued candidate status at which point Shire will have an exclusive option In the year to December 31, 2012 the Company made an upfront to acquire the program.
Shire will then be responsible for all payment to Sangamo of $13.0 million, for technology access and clinical development and future commercialization activities.
R&D funding, which was expensed to R&D.
Nimbus Neptune Inc. will be eligible to receive further consideration contingent upon achievement of certain In the year to December 31, 2013 the Companys share of R&D development and commercial milestones.
costs under this collaboration agreement was $15.2 million 2012: $8.9 million which were expensed to R&D.
The Company may be v Capital commitments required to pay research, regulatory, development and At December 31, 2013 the Company had committed to spend commercial milestone payments up to a maximum of $213.5 $12 million December 31, 2012: $97 million on capital projects.
million and to pay royalties on net sales of the product.
e Legal and other proceedings Out-licensing arrangements The Company expenses legal costs as they are incurred.
The Company has entered into various collaborative The Company recognizes loss contingency provisions for arrangements under which the Company has out-licensed probable losses when management is able to reasonably certain product or intellectual property rights for consideration estimate the loss.
When the estimated loss lies within a range, the such as up-front payments, development milestones, sales Company records a loss contingency provision based on its best milestones and or royalty payments.
In some of these estimate of the probable loss.
If no particular amount within that arrangements the Company and the licensee are both actively range is a better estimate than any other amount, the minimum involved in the development and commercialization of the amount is recorded.
Estimates of losses may be developed licensed product and have exposure to risks and rewards substantially before the ultimate loss is known, and are therefore dependent on its commercial success.
Under the terms of these refined each accounting period as additional information arrangements, the Company may receive development milestone becomes known.
In instances where the Company is unable to payments up to an aggregate amount of $39.0 million and sales develop a reasonable estimate of loss, no loss contingency milestones up to an aggregate amount of $71.5 million.
The provision is recorded at that time.
As information becomes known receipt of these substantive milestones is uncertain and a loss contingency provision is recorded when a reasonable contingent on the achievement of certain development estimate can be made.
The estimates are reviewed quarterly and milestones or the achievement of a specified level of annual net the estimates are changed when expectations are revised.
In the year to December 31, 2013 the outcome that deviates from the Companys estimate may result in Company received up-front and milestone payments totaling $3.0 an additional expense or release in a future accounting period.
In the year to December 31, 2013 December 31, 2013 provisions for litigation losses, insurance Shire recognized milestone income of $5.0 million 2012: $19.4 claims and other disputes totaled $72.7 million December 31, million in other revenues and $58.3 million 2012: $83.8 million in 2012: $130.5 million.
product sales for shipment of product to the relevant licensee.
The Companys principal pending legal and other proceedings d Commitments are disclosed below.
The outcomes of these proceedings are not i Clinical testing always predictable and can be affected by various factors.
For At December 31, 2013 the Company had committed to pay those legal and other proceedings for which it is considered at approximately $346 million December 31, 2012: $425 million to least reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, the contract vendors for administering and executing clinical trials.
Company discloses the possible loss or range of possible loss in The timing of these payments is dependent upon actual services excess of the recorded loss contingency provision, if any, where performed by the organizations as determined by patient such excess is both material and estimable.
enrollment levels and related activities.
VYVANSE ii Contract manufacturing In May and June 2011, the Company was notified that six At December 31, 2013 the Company had committed to pay separate Abbreviated New Drug Applications ANDAs were approximately $109 million December 31, 2012: $125 million in submitted under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to respect of contract manufacturing.
The Company expects to pay market generic versions of all approved strengths of VYVANSE.
$109 million of these commitments in 2014.
The notices were from Sandoz, Inc. Sandoz : Amneal iii Other purchasing commitments Pharmaceuticals LLC Amneal : Watson Laboratories, Inc. : At December 31, 2013 the Company had committed to pay Roxane Laboratories, Inc. Roxane : Mylan Pharmaceuticals, approximately $128 million December 31, 2012: $145 million for Inc. : and Actavis Elizabeth LLC and Actavis Inc. collectively, future purchases of goods and services, predominantly relating to Actavis.
Within the requisite 45 day period, the Company filed active pharmaceutical ingredients sourcing.
The Company lawsuits for infringement of certain of Shires VYVANSE patents in expects to pay $121 million of these commitments in 2014. the US District Court for the District of New Jersey against each of Sandoz, Roxane, Amneal and Actavis: in the US District Court iv Investment commitments for the Central District of California against Watson Laboratories, At December 31, 2013 the Company had outstanding Inc. : and in the US District Court for the Eastern District of New commitments to subscribe for interests in companies and York against Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Mylan Inc. partnerships for amounts totaling $14 million December 31, 2012: collectively Mylan.
In February 2013, the Company withdrew its $15 million which may all be payable in 2014, depending on the lawsuit against Watson following Watsons withdrawal of its timing of capital calls.
The investment commitments include ANDA.
On December 9, 2011, the District Court of New Jersey additional funding to Nimbus Neptune, Inc. a variable interest consolidated the Sandoz, Roxane, Amneal and Actavis cases.
entity, of which the Company is not the primary beneficiary.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued version of FOSRENOL upon receiving FDA approval in the US on 19.
Commitments and the earlier of the date of entry of another companys generic contingencies continued version of FOSRENOL to the US market, or October 1, 2021.
The Companys lawsuits against Mylan, Alkem and Natco have each The filing of the lawsuits triggered a stay of approval of all six been dismissed, and consequently, each of Mylan, Alkem and ANDAs for up to 30 months from the expiration of the new Natco may enter the US market upon FDA approval of their chemical entity exclusivity, which will expire on August 23, 2014. respective ANDA products.
In December 2011 and February 2012, the Company received additional notifications that Mylan had filed further certifications LIALDA challenging other VYVANSE patents listed in the Orange Book.
In May 2010 the Company was notified that Zydus Within the requisite 45 day period, the Company filed a new Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. Zydus had submitted an ANDA lawsuit against Mylan, Johnson Matthey Pharmaceutical under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a Materials and Johnson Matthey Inc. in New Jersey.
In May 2012, generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, the the Mylan case that was filed in the Eastern District of New York Company filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the District of was transferred and consolidated with the Mylan, Sandoz, Delaware against Zydus and Cadila Healthcare Limited, doing Roxane, Amneal and Actavis cases in New Jersey.
In December business as Zydus Cadila.
As of February 22, 2013, the case has 2012, the parties completed a Markman briefing.
No further activity will take place hearing took place on August 5, 2013 and a ruling was rendered until after one of the parties files a motion to reopen the case.
No trial dates have been set.
In February 2012, the Company was notified that Osmotica INTUNIV Pharmaceutical Corporation Osmotica had submitted an Between March 2010 and March 2011, the Company was notified ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to that seven separate ANDAs had been submitted to the FDA market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market period, the Company filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for generic versions of all approved strengths of INTUNIV.
The ANDA the Northern District of Georgia against Osmotica.
The filing of filers were Actavis Inc. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. Anchen, the lawsuit triggered a stay of approval of the ANDA for up to 30 Inc. Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Impax Laboratories, Inc. months.
The court has appointed a special master to assist with Mylan Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Sandoz, Inc. and certain of their a Markman hearing and to preside over any discovery disputes.
the Company filed lawsuits against each of AMarkman hearing took place on August 22, 2013 but no ruling these ANDA filers.
All of the lawsuits have now been settled.
No trial date has been set.
Under the terms of the Actavis settlement, Actavis has a license In March 2012, the Company was notified that Watson to make and market Actavis generic versions of INTUNIV in the Laboratories Inc. -Florida had submitted an ANDA under the United States on December 1, 2014.
Such sales will require the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic payment of a royalty of 25% of gross profits to the Company version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, the during the 180 day period of Actavis exclusivity.
All other parties Company filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern with whom the Company has settled will be able to enter the District of Florida against Watson Laboratories Inc. -Florida and market with their respective ANDA-approved products after Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
The filing of the lawsuit triggered Actavis 180 day exclusivity period has expired.
Each of the astay of approval of the ANDA for up to 30 months.
In August settlements included a consent judgment confirming that the 2012, the Company filed an amended complaint adding Watson proposed ANDA products infringe the patents-in-suit, U. S. Pharma, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. as defendants.
Patents 6,287,599 and 6,811,794, and that those patents are valid AMarkman hearing was held on December 20, 2012 and a and enforceable with respect to their respective proposed ANDA written Markman decision was given by the court on January 17, products.
U. S. Patent 5,854,290, which was originally asserted in 2013.
Atrial took place in April, 2013 and on May 9, 2013 the trial some of the litigations, has been dedicated to the public.
court issued a decision finding that the proposed generic product FOSRENOL infringes the patent-in-suit and that the patent is not invalid.
Between February 2009 and December 2010 the Company was Watson has appealed the trial courts ruling to the Court of notified that four separate ANDAs had been submitted to the FDA Appeals of the Federal Circuit CAFC and a hearing took place under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market on December 2, 2013.
No ruling has been issued by the CAFC.
generic versions of all approved strengths of FOSRENOL.
The In April 2012, the Company was notified that Mylan ANDA filers were Barr Laboratories, Inc. : Mylan, Inc. : Natco Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Mylan had submitted an ANDA under Pharma Limited and Alkem Laboratories Ltd. and certain of their the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic respective affiliates.
The Company filed lawsuits against each of version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, the these ANDA filers.
In April 2011, the Company and Barr reached a Company filed a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Middle settlement and the lawsuit against Barr was dismissed.
The District of Florida against Mylan.
The filing of the lawsuit triggered settlement provides Barr with a license to market its own generic a stay of approval of the ANDA for up to 30 months.
No date for a Markman hearing has been set.
A trial is scheduled to occur in September, 2014.
130 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information The Company has recorded a $57.5 million charge comprised of 19.
Commitments and the agreement in principle amount, interest and costs, which has contingencies continued been charged to SG&A in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The agreement in principle is subject to change until this matter is ADDERALL XR finally resolved.
Discussions between the Company and the US On November 1, 2010 Impax Laboratories, Inc. Impax filed suit Government are ongoing to establish a final resolution to the against the Company in the US District Court for the Southern investigation.
District of New York claiming that the Company was in breach of its supply contract for the authorized generic version of Louisiana Complaint related to ADDERALL, ADDERALL XR, ADDERALL XR.
On February 7, 2013 the Company and Impax DAYTRANA, VYVANSE and INTUNIV settled this dispute and agreed to discontinue all court and On July 22 and July 23, 2013, the State of Louisiana served related proceedings.
Under the terms of the settlement the Shire LLC and Shire US Inc. respectively, with a civil complaint Company made a one-time cash payment to Impax of $48 million filed in the 19th Judicial District Court for the Parish of East in the first quarter of 2013.
Also as part of the settlement, the Baton Rouge.
The complaint alleges that the Companys sales, parties have entered into an amended supply agreement which marketing, and promotion of ADDERALL, ADDERALL XR, will govern the supply of authorized generic ADDERALL XR from DAYTRANA, VYVANSE and INTUNIV violated state law.
The the Company to Impax until the end of the supply term on State is seeking monetary relief for its claims of fraud, redhibition, September 30, 2014. and unjust enrichment, as well as violations of Louisianas Medical Assistance Programs Integrity Law, Unfair Trade In February 2011, the Company was notified that Watson Practices Act, and anti-trust laws.
Shire intends vigorously to Laboratories, Inc. -Florida had submitted an ANDA under the defend these claims.
The Company is not in a position at this Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic time to predict the timing, result or outcome of these claims.
version of all approved strengths of ADDERALL XR.
the Company filed a lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of Investigation related to DERMAGRAFT New York against Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and certain of its The Company understands that the Department of Justice, affiliates for infringement of certain of the Companys ADDERALL including the US Attorneys Office for the Middle District of XR patents.
Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. the successor in interest to Florida, Tampa Division and the US Attorneys Office for Watsons ANDA for ADDERALL XR has withdrawn its ANDA, and Washington, DC, is conducting civil and criminal investigations the litigation was dismissed on January 23, 2013 by agreement into the sales and marketing practices of Advanced BioHealing between the Company, Watson and Par Pharmaceutical, Inc. Inc. ABH relating to DERMAGRAFT.
Shire is cooperating fully with these investigations.
The Company is not in a position at In February 2013, the Company was notified that Neos this time to predict the scope, duration or outcome of these Therapeutics, Inc. had submitted a New Drug Application under investigations.
section 505 b 2 of the Hatch Waxman Act 505 b 2 Application.
The 505 b 2 Application was submitted with a Civil Investigative Demand for ADDERALL XR, ADDERALL XR paragraph IV certification for U. S. Reissued Patent Nos.
RE41,148 Authorized Generics and VYVANSE and 42,096 listed in the Orange Book.
Within the requisite 45 day On April 5, 2012 the Company received a Civil Investigative period, the Company filed a lawsuit in the Northern District of Demand CID from the United States Federal Trade Texas against Neos Therapeutics, Inc. for infringement of those Commission FTC requesting that the Company provide it with patents.
The filing of the lawsuit triggered a stay of final approval certain information regarding the supply and reported shortages of the 505 b 2 Application for 30 months.
No trial date has been of ADDERALL XR and its authorized generics and the marketing set.
and sale of ADDERALL XR, its authorized generics and VYVANSE.
The Company believes the CID was triggered by Subpoena related to ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA and VYVANSE reports of product shortages of ADDERALL XR and the On September 23, 2009 the Company received a civil subpoena authorized generic products in 2011.
The Company responded from the US Department of Health and Human Services Office of to the CID in 2012.
On August 29, 2013, the FTC informed the Inspector General in coordination with the US Attorney for the Company that it was closing the investigation without taking any Eastern District of Pennsylvania seeking production of documents further action.
related to the sales and marketing of ADDERALL XR, DAYTRANA and VYVANSE.
The investigation covered whether the Company engaged in off-label promotion and other conduct that may implicate the civil False Claims Act.
On February 1, 2013 the Company announced it had reached an agreement in principle to resolve this matter.
The agreement also addresses sales and marketing practices relating to LIALDA and PENTASA pursuant to a subsequent voluntary disclosure made by the Company.
the Company cooperated with the US Government throughout the process that led to this agreement in principle.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Accumulated other comprehensive income The changes in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of their related tax effects, in the year to to December 31, 2013 are included below: Unrealized Foreign holding gain Accumulated currency loss on other translation  adjustment sale securities income As at January 1, 2013 85.1 1.8 86.9 Current period change: Other Comprehensive income before reclassification 25.3 1.5 26.8 Gain transferred to the income statement within Other expense income, net on disposal of available-for-sale securities 3.5 3.5 Net current period other comprehensive income 25.3 2.0 23.3 As at December 31, 2013 110.4 0.2 110.2 21.
Financial instruments Treasury policies and organization The Companys principal treasury operations are coordinated by its corporate treasury function.
All treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies and procedures approved annually by the Board.
As a matter of policy, the Company does not undertake speculative transactions that would increase its currency or interest rate exposure.
Interest rate risk The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its $1,200 million Revolving Credit Facility, its $0.55 billion term loan facility, its $0.85 billion term loan facility the Facilities, to the extent the Facilities are utilized, restricted cash, cash and cash equivalents and on foreign exchange contracts on which interest is at floating rates.
This exposure is primarily to US dollar, Pounds sterling, Euro and Canadian dollar interest rates.
The Company has evaluated the interest rate risk on its debt facilities and considers the floating rate as appropriate.
As the Company maintains all of its cash, liquid investments and foreign exchange contracts on a short term basis for liquidity purposes, this risk is not actively managed.
In the year to to December 31, 2013 the average interest rate received on cash and liquid investments was less than 1% per annum.
The largest proportion of these cash and liquid investments was in US dollar money market and liquidity funds.
At December 31, 2013 the Facilities were not utilized.
The Company incurred interest at a fixed rate of 2.75% on its $1,100 million in principal amount convertible bonds which was converted and redeemed at December 31, 2013.
No derivative instruments were entered into during the year to December 31, 2013 to manage interest rate exposure.
The Company continues to review its interest rate risk and the policies in place to manage the risk.
Credit risk Financial instruments that potentially expose the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of short term cash investments, derivative contracts and trade accounts receivable from product sales and from third parties from which the Company receives royalties.
Cash is invested in short term money market instruments, including money market and liquidity funds and bank term deposits.
The money market and liquidity funds in which the Company invests are all triple A rated by both Standard and Poors and by Moodys credit rating agencies.
The Company is exposed to the credit risk of the counterparties with which it enters into derivative instruments.
The Company limits this exposure through a system of internal credit limits which vary according to ratings assigned to the counterparties by the major rating agencies.
The internal credit limits are approved by the Board and exposure against these limits is monitored by the corporate treasury function.
The counterparties to these derivatives contracts are major international financial institutions.
The Companys revenues from product sales in the US are mainly governed by agreements with major pharmaceutical wholesalers and relationships with other pharmaceutical distributors and retail pharmacy chains.
For the year to December 31, 2013 there were three customers in the US that accounted for 52% of the Companys product sales.
However, such customers typically have significant cash resources and as such the risk from concentration of credit is considered acceptable.
The Company has taken positive steps to manage any credit risk associated with these transactions and operates clearly defined credit evaluation procedures.
However, an inability of one or more of these wholesalers to honor their debts to the Company could have an adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
132 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 21.
Financial instruments continued A substantial portion of the Companys accounts receivable in countries outside of the United States is derived from product sales togovernment-owned or government-supported healthcare providers.
The Companys recovery of these accounts receivable is therefore dependent upon the financial stability and creditworthiness of the relevant governments.
In recent years the creditworthiness and general economic condition of a number of Eurozone countries including Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain therelevant countries has deteriorated.
As a result, in some of these countries the Company is experiencing delays in the remittance of receivables due from government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers.
The Company continued toreceive remittances in relation to government-owned or government-supported healthcare providers in all the relevant countries intheyear to December 31, 2013, including receipts of $116.8 million and $144.7 million in respect of Spanish and Italian receivables, respectively.
To date the Company has not incurred significant losses on accounts receivable in the relevant countries, and continues to consider that such accounts receivable are recoverable.
The Company will continue to evaluate all its accounts receivable for potential collection risks and has made provision for amounts where collection is considered to be doubtful.
If the financial condition of the relevant countries or other Eurozone countries suffer significant deterioration, such that their ability to make payments becomes uncertain, or if one or more Eurozone member countries withdraws from the Euro, additional allowances for doubtful accounts may be required, and losses may be incurred, in future periods.
Any such loss could have an adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations.
Foreign exchange risk The Company trades in numerous countries and as a consequence has transactional and translational foreign exchange exposures.
Transactional exposure arises where transactions occur in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
The main trading currencies of the Company are the US dollar, Pounds Sterling, Swiss Franc and the Euro.
It is the Companys policy that these exposures are minimized to the extent practicable by denominating transactions in the subsidiarys functional currency.
Where significant exposures remain, the Company uses foreign exchange contracts being spot, forward and swap contracts to manage the exposure for balance sheet assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
These assets and liabilities relate predominantly to intercompany financing.
The foreign exchange contracts have not been designated as hedging instruments.
Cash flows from derivative instruments are presented within net cash provided by operating activities in the consolidated cash flow statement, unless the derivative instruments are economically hedging specific investing or financing activities.
Translational foreign exchange exposure arises on the translation into US dollars of the financial statements of non-US dollar functional subsidiaries.
At December 31, 2013 the Company had 29 swap and forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding to manage currency risk.
Theswap and forward contracts mature within 90 days.
The Company did not have credit risk related contingent features or collateral linked to the derivatives.
The Company has master netting agreements with a number of counterparties to these foreign exchange contracts and on the occurrence of specified events, the Company has the ability to terminate contracts and settle them with a net payment by one party to the other.
The Company has elected to present derivative assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis in the consolidated balance sheet.
As at December 31, 2013 the potential effect of rights of set off associated with the foreign exchange contracts would be an offset to both assets and liabilities of $0.7 million, resulting in net derivative assets and derivative liabilities of $3.3 million and $2.1 million, respectively.
Further details are included below: Fair value Fair value December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 $M $M Assets Prepaid expenses and other current assets 4.0 1.3 Liabilities Other current liabilities 2.8 3.0 Net losses gains both realized and unrealized arising on foreign exchange contracts have been classified in the consolidated statements of income as follows: Location of net loss gain Amount of net loss gain recognized in income recognized in income December 31, December 31, 2013 2012 In the year to $M $M Foreign exchange contracts Other income, net 1.8 6.2 These net foreign exchange losses gains are offset within Other income, net by net foreign exchange gains losses arising on the balance sheet items that these contracts were put in place to manage.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Fair value measurement Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis As at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 the following financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a recurring basis using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 1 : significant other observable inputs Level 2 : and significant unobservable inputs Level 3.
Carrying value Fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At December 31, 2013 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets: 1 Available-for-sale securities 6.7 6.7 6.7 2 Contingent consideration receivable 36.1 36.1 36.1 Foreign exchange contracts 4.0 4.0 4.0 Financial liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts 2.8 2.8 2.8 3 Contingent consideration payable 405.9 405.9 405.9 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 At December 31, 2012 $M $M $M $M $M Financial assets: 1 Available-for-sale securities 14.2 14.2 14.2 2 Contingent consideration receivable 38.3 38.3 38.3 Foreign exchange contracts 1.3 1.3 1.3 Financial liabilities: Foreign exchange contracts 3.0 3.0 3.0 3 Contingent consideration payable 136.4 136.4 136.4 1 Available-for-sale securities are included within Investments in the consolidated balance sheet.
2 Contingent consideration receivable is included within Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other non-current assets in the consolidated balance sheet.
3 Contingent consideration payable is included within Other current liabilities and Other non-current liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet.
Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fair value amounts.
The fair value amounts shown above are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company would realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Companys intent or ability to dispose of the financial instrument.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: Available-for-sale securities the fair values of available-for-sale securities are estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
Contingent consideration receivable the fair value of the contingent consideration receivable has been estimated using the income approach using a probability weighted discounted cash flow method.
Foreign exchange contracts the fair values of the swap and forward foreign exchange contracts have been determined using an income approach based on current market expectations about the future cash flows.
Contingent consideration payable the fair value of the contingent consideration payable has been estimated using the income approach using a probability weighted discounted cash flow method.
134 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 22.
Fair value measurement continued Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs Level 3 The change in the fair value of the Companys contingent consideration receivable and payables, which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs Level 3, are as follows: 2013 2012 Contingent consideration receivable $M $M Balance at January 1, 38.3 37.8 Gain recognized in the income statement within Gain on sale of product rights due to change in fair value during the period 15.9 18.1 Reclassification of amounts to Other receivables within Other current assets 19.5 18.7 Amounts recorded to other comprehensive income within foreign currency translation adjustments 1.4 1.1 Balance at December 31, 36.1 38.3 2013 2012 Contingent consideration payable $M $M Balance at January 1, 136.4 Initial recognition of contingent consideration payable 451.4 127.8 Change in fair value during the period with the corresponding adjustment recognized as a gain in the income statement within Integration and acquisition costs 159.1 9.2 Reclassification of amounts to Other current liabilities 13.9 8.8 Change in fair value during the period with corresponding adjustment to the associated intangible asset 8.9 8.2 Balance at December 31, 405.9 136.4 Quantitative information about sssets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs Level 3 Quantitative information about the Companys recurring Level 3 fair value measurements is included below: Financial assets: Fair value at the measurement date Fair value Significant At December 31, 2013 $M Valuation technique unobservable Inputs Range Contingent consideration 36.1 Income approach Probability weightings 10 to 45% receivable CCR probability weighted applied to different sales discounted cash flow scenarios Future forecast royalties $40 million to receivable at relevant $148 million contractual royalty rates Assumed market 6.2% participant discount rate Financial liabilities: Fair value at the measurement date Fair value Significant At December 31, 2013 $M Valuation technique unobservable Inputs Range Contingent consideration payable 405.9 Income approach Cumulative probability 18 to 57% probability weighted of milestones weighted average discounted cash flow being achieved Assumed market 2.9 to 15% participant discount rate weighted average Periods in which 2014 to 2025 milestones are expected to be achieved Forecast quarterly $2.4 to $7.6 million royalties payable on net sales of relevant products WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Fair value measurement continued The Company re-measures the CCR relating to contingent consideration due to the Company following divestment of one of the Companys products at fair value at each balance sheet date, with the fair value measurement based on forecast cash flows, over a number of scenarios which vary depending on the expected performance outcome of the product following divestment.
The forecast cash flows under each of these differing outcomes have been included in probability weighted estimates used by the Company in determining the fair value of the CCR.
Contingent consideration payable represents future milestones the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with various business combinations and future royalties payable as a result of certain business combinations and licenses.
The amount ultimately payable by the Company in relation to business combinations is dependent upon the achievement of specified future milestones, such as the achievement of certain future development, regulatory and sales milestones.
The Company assesses the probability, and estimated timing, of these milestones being achieved and re-measures the related contingent consideration to fair value each balance sheet date.
The amount of contingent consideration which may ultimately be payable by the Company in relation to future royalties is dependent upon future net sales of the relevant products over the life of the royalty term.
The Company assesses the present value of forecast future net sales of the relevant products and re-measures the related contingent consideration to fair value each balance sheet date.
The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration receivable and payable could significantly increase or decrease due to changes in certain assumptions which underpin the fair value measurements.
Each set of assumptions and milestones are specific to the individual contingent consideration receivable or payable.
The assumptions include, among other things, the probability and expected timing of certain milestones being achieved, the forecast future net sales of the relevant products and related future royalties payable, the probability weightings applied to different sales scenarios of one of the Companys divested products and forecast future royalties receivable under scenarios developed by the Company, and the discount rates used to determine the present value of contingent future cash flows.
The Company regularly reviews these assumptions, and makes adjustments to the fair value measurements as required by facts and circumstances.
Assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis in the period using significant unobservable inputs Level 3 In the second quarter of 2013 the Company reviewed certain IPR&D intangible assets acquired through Movetis for impairment and recognized an impairment charge of $19.9 million, recorded within R&D in the consolidated income statement, to write-down these assets to their fair value.
The fair value of these assets was determined using the income approach, which used significant unobservable Level 3 inputs.
These unobservable inputs included, among other things, risk-adjusted forecast future cash flows to be generated by these assets and the determination of an appropriate discount rate to be applied in calculating the present value of forecast future cash flows.
The fair value of these assets, determined at the time of the impairment review, was $20.3 million.
On January 16, 2014, the Company sold and transferred certain of the assets relating to the manufacturing, marketing, sale and distribution of DERMAGRAFT to Organogenesis Inc see Note 9 for details.
The Transferred Assets include intellectual property relating to DERMAGRAFT, including patents, trademarks and know-how, regulatory filings and registrations relating to DERMAGRAFT, certain manufacturing plant, equipment and materials relating to the Business, and DERMAGRAFT product inventory and accounts receivable.
The Transferred Assets have been measured at their fair value less costs to sell as at December 31, 2013.
An impairment charge of $636.9 million was recorded within discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement upon re-measurement of the divested assets to their fair value less costs to sell.
These unobservable inputs included, among other things, risk-adjusted forecast future cash flows to be generated by the Company following the divestment of these assets and the determination of an appropriate discount rate to be applied in calculating the present value of forecast future cash flows.
The fair value of these assets at the date the held-for-sale conditions were met amounted to $31.6 million.
Quantitative information about Non-Recurring Level 3 Fair Value Measurements which occurred in the period is included below: Fair value at the measurement date Fair value Significant At December 31, 2013 $M Valuation Technique unobservable Inputs Rate used Movetis-related IPR&D intangible assets 20.3 Income approach Decline in forecast 50% discounted cash flow peak sales since last impairment test Assumed 8.9% market participant discount rate DERMAGRAFT assets held-for-sale 31.6 Income approach Future forecast $15 to $95 million discounted cash flow milestones to be received Assumed market 11.5% participant discount rate 136 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
Fair value measurement continued Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis The carrying amounts and estimated fair values as at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 of the Companys financial assets and liabilities which are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis are as follows: December 31, 2013 December 31, 2013 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value $M $M $M $M Financial liabilities: Convertible bonds Level 1 1,100.0 1,228.2 Building financing obligation Level 3 7.8 10.1 8.0 10.3 Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fair value amounts.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each material class of financial instrument: Building finance obligations the fair value of building finance obligations are estimated based on the present value of future cash flows, and an estimate of the residual value of the underlying property at the end of the lease term, associated with these obligations.
The carrying amounts of other financial assets and liabilities materially approximate to their fair value because of the short term maturity of these amounts.
Shareholders equity Authorized common stock The authorized stock of Shire plc as at December 31, 2013 was 1,000,000,000 Ordinary Shares and 2 subscriber Ordinary Shares.
Dividends Under Jersey law, Shire plc is entitled to make payments of dividends from its accumulated profits and other distributable reserves.
AtDecember 31, 2013 Shire plcs distributable reserves were approximately $10.4 billion.
Treasury stock The Company records the purchase of its own shares by the EBT and under share buy-back program as a reduction of shareholders equity based on the price paid for the shares.
At December 31, 2013, the EBT held 2.4 million Ordinary Shares 2012: 3.8 million and 0.4 million ADSs 2012: 1.1 million and shares held under share buy-back program were 7.1 million Ordinary Shares 2012: 2.7 million and 0.9 million ADSs 2012: 0.3 million.
During the year to December 31, 2013 a total of 4.2 million 2012: 4.5 million Ordinary Shares and 0.8 million 2012: 0.9 million ADSs had been purchased for total consideration of $243.8 million 2012: $205.8 million, including stamp duty and broker commission.
Share buy-back program In 2012 the Company commenced a share buy-back program of up to $500 million through both direct purchases of Ordinary Shares and through the purchase of Ordinary Shares underlying ADRs.
The purchases have been made through independent third parties who have made trading decisions independently of, and uninfluenced by, the Company.
The independence of the third parties enabled the Company to purchase Ordinary Shares including Ordinary Shares underlying ADRs during close periods and other prohibited periods, should they arise.
The amount, timing or prices of purchases, varied based on market conditions and other factors.
The shares purchased to date are held as treasury shares.
During the year ending December 31, 2013, the Company made on-market repurchases totaling 6,191,965 Ordinary Shares at a cost of $193 million excluding transaction costs.
This represents 1.0% of the issued share capital of the Company as at the end of the quarter.
Ordinary Shares purchased may be cancelled or be held as treasury shares, in accordance with the authority renewed by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
At its AGM on April 24, 2012 the Company was authorized to make market purchases of up to 56,253,208 of its own Ordinary Shares.
That authority expired at the AGM held on April 30, 2013 and was renewed.
Under the new authority, which expires on the earlier of July 29, 2014 or the conclusion of the 2014 AGM, the Company was authorized to make market purchases of up to 55,741,587 of its own Ordinary Shares.
On November 11, 2013, contemporaneous with Shires announcement of its acquisition of ViroPharma, the Companys share buyback program was terminated.
Since the inception of the share buyback program the Company had purchased $300 million of Ordinary Shares and Ordinary Shares underlying ADRs.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Shareholders equity continued Conversion of Shires 2.75% Convertible Bonds On November 26, 2013, the Company issued an optional redemption notice under the Trust Deed dated May 9, 2007 to holders of the Companys Bonds.
Consequently, as of December 31, 2013, Bondholders had voluntarily converted the Bonds into 33,806,464 fully paid Ordinary Shares.
See Note 16 for further details.
Income Access Share Arrangements IAS Trust The Company has put into place income access arrangements which enable ordinary shareholders, other than ADS holders, to choose whether they receive their dividends from the Company, a company tax resident in the Republic of Ireland, or from Shire Biopharmaceutical Holdings Old Shire, a Shire group company tax resident in the UK.
Old Shire has issued one income access share to the Income Access Trust the IAS Trust which is held by the trustee of the IAS Trust the Trustee.
The mechanics of the arrangements are as follows: If a dividend is announced or declared by Shire plc on its Ordinary Shares, an amount is paid by Old Shire by way of a dividend on the income access share to the Trustee, and such amount is paid by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders who have elected or are deemed to have elected to receive dividends under these arrangements.
The dividend which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc to its ordinary shareholders will be reduced by an amount equal to the amount paid to its ordinary shareholders by the Trustee.
If the dividend paid on the income access share and on-paid by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders is less than the total amount of the dividend announced or declared by Shire plc on its Ordinary Shares, Shire plc will be obliged to pay a dividend on the relevant Ordinary Shares equivalent to the amount of the shortfall.
In such a case, any dividend paid on the Ordinary Shares will generally be subject to Irish withholding tax at the rate of 20% or such lower rate as may be applicable under exemptions from withholding tax contained in Irish law.
An ordinary shareholder is entitled to make an income access share election such that he she will receive his her dividends which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc under these arrangements from Old Shire.
An ordinary shareholder who holds 25,000 or fewer Ordinary Shares at the first record date after he she first becomes an ordinary shareholder, and who does not make a contrary election, will be deemed to have made an election pursuant to the Shire plc articles of association such that he she will receive his her dividends under these arrangements from Old Shire.
The ADS Depositary has made an election on behalf of all holders of ADSs such that they will receive dividends from Old Shire under the income access share arrangements.
Dividends paid by Old Shire under the income access share arrangements will not, under current legislation, be subject to any UK or Irish withholding taxes.
If a holder of ADSs does not wish to receive dividends from Old Shire under the income access share arrangements, he she must withdraw his her Ordinary Shares from the ADS program prior to the dividend record date set by the Depositary and request delivery of the Shire plc Ordinary Shares.
This will enable him her to receive dividends from Shire plc if necessary, by making an election to that effect.
It is the expectation, although there can be no certainty, that Old Shire will distribute dividends on the income access share to the Trustee for the benefit of all ordinary shareholders who make or are deemed to make an income access share election in an amount equal to what would have been such ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election.
If any dividend paid on the income access share and or paid to the ordinary shareholders is less than such ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election, the dividend on the income access share will be allocated pro rata among the ordinary shareholders and Shire plc will pay the balance to these ordinary shareholders by way of dividend.
In such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by Shire plc in respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including any Irish withholding tax consequences.
The Company will be able to suspend or terminate these arrangements at any time, in which case the full Shire plc dividend will be paid directly by Shire plc to those ordinary shareholders including the Depositary who have made or are deemed to have made an income access share election.
In the year ended December 31, 2013 Old Shire paid dividends totaling $91.1 million 2012: $81.5 million on the income access share to the Trustee in an amount equal to the dividend Shire ordinary shareholders would have received from Shire.
138 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 24.
Earnings per share The following table reconciles net income and the weighted average Ordinary Shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share for the periods presented: 2013 2012 $M $M Income from continuing operations, net of taxes 1,419.6 805.7 1 Loss from discontinued operations 754.5 60.3 Numerator for basic earnings per share 665.1 745.4 Interest on convertible bonds, net of tax 28.3 31.3 Numerator for diluted earnings per share 693.4 776.7 Weighted average number of shares: Millions Millions 1 Basic 552.0 555.4 Effect of dilutive shares: 2 Share based awards to employees 4.8 4.6 3 Convertible bonds 2.75% due 2014 33.5 33.5 Diluted 590.3 593.5 1 Excludes shares purchased by the EBT and under the share buy-back program and presented by Shire as treasury stock.
2 Calculated using the treasury stock method.
3 At December 31, 2013, Bondholders had voluntarily converted $1,099,050,000 aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Bonds into 33,806,464 fully paid OrdinaryShares.
The remaining outstanding Bonds in an aggregate principle amount of $950,000 were redeemed pursuant to the option redemption notice issued onNovember26, 2013.
The Company has calculated the impact of the Bonds on diluted EPS from the beginning of the period to the actual date of Bonds conversion using the if-converted method.
Year to December 31, 2013 2012 Earnings per Ordinary Share basic Earnings from continuing operations 257.2c 145.1c Loss from discontinued operations 136.7c 10.9c Earnings per Ordinary Share basic 120.5c 134.2c Earnings per Ordinary Share diluted Earnings from continuing operations 245.3c 141.0c Loss from discontinued operations 127.8c 10.1c Earnings per Ordinary Share diluted 117.5c 130.9c The share equivalents not included in the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares are shown below: 2013 2012 No.
of shares shares Millions Millions 1 Share based awards to employees 0.5 6.7 1 Certain stock options have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because a their exercise prices exceeded Shire plcs average share price during the calculation period or b the required performance conditions were not satisfied as at the balance sheet date.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Segmental reporting Historically the Company had three business units and three reportable segments: Specialty Pharmaceuticals SP, Human Genetic Therapies HGT and Regenerative Medicine RM.
On May 2, 2013 the Company announced that there would be a reorganization of the Companys business to integrate the operation of these business units into a simplified One Shire organization in order to drive future growth and innovation.
Consequently the SP, HGT and RM segments no longer exist.
Shire now comprises a single operating and reportable segment, consistent with the One Shire approach that underpins the business simplification.
This segment is engaged in the research, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of innovative specialist medicines to meet significant unmet patient needs.
This segment is supported by several key functions: a Pipeline group, consisting of R&D and Business Development, will prioritize its activities towards late stage development programs across a variety of therapeutic areas, while focusing its pre-clinical development activities primarily in rare diseases: a Technical Operations group will be responsible for the Companys global supply chain: and an In-line marketed products group will focus on commercialized products.
The In-line marketed products group currently consists of four commercial units focused exclusively on commercial delivery to drive optimum performance of currently marketed products.
Thebusiness is also supported by a simplified, centralized corporate function group.
None of these functional groups meets all of the criteria to be an operating segment The reorganization to a single operating and reportable segment is consistent with the financial information regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee which is the Companys chief operating decision maker for the purposes of evaluating performance, allocating resources, and planning and forecasting future periods.
Geographic information Revenues based on the geographic location from which the sale originated : 2013 2012 Year to December 31, $M $M Ireland 22.5 20.6 United Kingdom 206.7 207.0 North America 3,386.2 3,006.1 Rest of World 1,318.9 1,293.7 Total revenues 4,934.3 4,527.4 Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets, deferred contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments based on the geographic location within which the economic benefits arise: 2013 2012 Year to December 31, $M $M Ireland 5.8 5.2 United Kingdom 70.3 72.2 North America 802.9 861.0 Rest of World 13.8 18.8 Total 892.8 957.2 140 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 25.
Segmental reporting continued Material customers In the periods set out below, certain customers, accounted for greater than 10% of the Companys product revenues: 2013 2013 2012 2012 Year to December 31, $M % product $M % product McKesson Corp. 902.9 19 835.9 20 Cardinal Health Inc. 853.7 18 1,035.7 24 AmerisourceBergen Corp 721.0 15 307.4 7 Amounts outstanding as at December 31, in respect of these material customers were as follows: 2013 2012 December 31, $M $M McKesson Corp. 161.3 127.4 Cardinal Health Inc. 149.5 166.1 AmerisourceBergen Corp 164.6 47.4 In the periods set out below, revenues by major product were as follows: 2013 2012 $M $M VYVANSE 1,227.8 1,029.8 ELAPRASE 545.6 497.6 LIALDA MEZAVANT 528.9 399.9 REPLAGAL 467.9 497.5 ADDERALL XR 375.4 429.0 VPRIV 342.7 306.6 INTUNIV 334.9 287.8 PENTASA 280.6 265.8 FIRAZYR 234.8 116.3 FOSRENOL 183.4 172.0 XAGRID 99.4 97.2 Other product sales 136.1 153.4 Total product sales 4,757.5 4,252.9 WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Retirement benefits The Company makes contributions to defined contribution retirement plans that together cover substantially all employees.
The level of the Companys contribution is fixed at a set percentage of employees pay.
Company contributions to personal defined contribution pension plans totalled $45.7 million and $46.4 million for the years to December 31, 2013 and 2012 respectively, and were charged to operations as they became payable.
Taxation The components of pre tax income from continuing operations are as follows: 2013 2012 Year to December 31, $M $M Republic of Ireland 47.8 74.7 UK 10.9 30.7 US 1,153.3 683.8 Other jurisdictions 577.2 368.0 1,693.6 1,007.8 The provision for income taxes by location of the taxing jurisdiction for the years to December 31, 2013 and 2012 consisted of the following: 2013 2012 Year to December 31, $M $M Current income taxes: Republic of Ireland US federal tax 274.3 230.0 US state and local taxes 17.9 11.3 Other 63.4 29.0 Total current taxes 355.6 270.3 Deferred taxes: US federal tax 23.8 63.8 US state and local taxes 8.3 6.5 UK corporation tax 11.5 13.1 Other 104.7 10.0 Total deferred taxes 77.7 67.2 Total income taxes 277.9 203.1 The operating results associated with the DERMAGRAFT business have been classified as discontinued operations for all periods presented.
The Group has determined the amount of income tax expense or benefit allocable to continuing operations using the incremental approach described in ASC 740-20-45-8 and the relevant examples.
As a result $9 million of income tax expense associated with the US operations was allocated to income from continuing operations for 2013 based on the primacy of continuing operations, due to changes in circumstances that caused a change in judgment about the realization of deferred tax assets in future years, and in accordance with the rules prescribed under ASC 740-20-45.
The amount of Income tax attributed to discontinued operations is disclosed in Note 9.
142 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 27.
Taxation continued The reconciliation of income from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests and equity in earnings losses of equity method investees at the statutory tax rate to the provision for income taxes is shown in the table below: 2013 2012 Year to December 31, $M $M Income from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in earnings of equity method investees 1,693.6 1,007.8 1 Statutory tax rate 25.0% 25.0% Adjustments to derive effective rate: Non-deductable items: US R&D credit 4.5% 2.6% Effect of the convertible bond 0.5% 0.8% 2 Intra-group items 9.2% 16.0% Recognition of foreign tax credits 6.6% Other permanent items 0.7% 0.8% Other items: Change in valuation allowance 0.9% 3.4% Impact of RESOLOR impairment 4.9% Difference in taxation rates 7.8% 7.6% Change in provisions for uncertain tax positions 3.8% 1.1% Prior year adjustment 3.4% 0.8% Change in fair value of contingent consideration 3.6% Change in tax rates 0.2% 0.8% Other 0.0% 0.1% Provision for income taxes on continuing operations 16.4% 20.1% 1 In addition to being subject to the Irish Corporation tax rate of 25%, in 2013 the Company is also subject to income tax in other territories in which the Company operates, including: Canada 15% : France 33.3% : Germany 15% : Italy 27.5% : Luxembourg 21.0%: the Netherlands 25% : Belgium 33.99% : Spain 30% : Sweden 22% : Switzerland 8.5% : United Kingdom 23.25% and the US 35%.
The rates quoted represent the statutory federal income tax rates in each territory, and do not include any state taxes or equivalents or surtaxes or other taxes charged in individual territories, and do not purport to represent the effective tax rate for the Company in each territory.
2 Intra-group items principally relate to the effect of intercompany dividends, capital receipts either taxable or non-taxable and other intra-territory eliminations, the pre-tax effect of which has been eliminated in arriving at the Companys consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes, noncontrolling interests and equity in earnings losses of equity method investees.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Taxation continued Provisions for uncertain tax positions The Company files income tax returns in the Republic of Ireland, the UK, the US both federal and state and various other jurisdictions see footnote 1 to the table above for major jurisdictions.
With few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 1999.
Tax authorities in various jurisdictions are in the process of auditing the Companys tax returns for fiscal periods from 1999: these tax audits cover a range of issues, including transfer pricing, potential restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses, potential taxation of overseas dividends and controlled foreign companies rules.
While tax audits remain open, the Company also considers it reasonably possible that issues may be raised by tax authorities resulting in increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits, however, an estimate of such increase cannot be made.
The Company is required in certain tax jurisdictions to make advance deposits to tax authorities on receipt of tax assessments.
These payments have been offset against the income tax liability within the balance sheet but have not reduced the provision for unrecognized tax benefits.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 2013 2012 $M $M Balance at January 1 278.7 265.5 Increases based on tax positions related to the current year 56.8 20.5 Decreases based on tax positions taken in the current year 0.5 Increases for tax positions taken in prior years 34.5 0.4 Decreases for tax positions taken in prior years 0.8 3.3 Decreases resulting from settlements with the taxing authorities 10.6 Decreases as a result of expiration of the statute of limitations 0.6 0.3 1 Foreign currency translation adjustments 12.9 6.5 Other 2 Balance at December 31 355.2 278.7 1 Recognized within Other Comprehensive Income 2 The full amount of which would affect the effective rate if recognized The Company considers it reasonably possible that certain audits currently being conducted will be concluded in the next twelve months, and as a result the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits recorded at December 31, 2013 could decrease by up to approximately $210 million.
As at the balance sheet date, the Company believes that its reserves for uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover the resolution of these audits.
However, the resolution of these audits could have a significant impact on the financial statements if the settlement differs from the amount reserved.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits within income taxes.
During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company recognized $0.4 million and $5.1 million in interest and penalties and the Company had a liability of $112.2 million and $119.6 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2013 and 2012 respectively.
144 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
Taxation continued Deferred taxes The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities and their balance sheet classifications, as at December 31, areasfollows: 2013 2012 $M $M Deferred tax assets: Deferred revenue 5.2 5.5 Inventory & warranty provisions 48.6 52.5 1 Losses carried forward including tax credits 500.6 425.7 Provisions for sales deductions and doubtful accounts 151.8 144.9 Intangible assets 10.7 36.7 Share-based compensation 25.5 32.7 Excess of tax value over book value of assets 22.1 Accruals and provisions 55.1 44.1 Other 2.6 21.6 Gross deferred tax assets 822.2 763.7 Less: valuation allowance 282.4 268.6 539.8 495.1 Deferred tax liabilities: Intangible assets 586.8 702.7 Excess of book value over tax value of assets and investments 56.9 36.8 Net deferred tax liabilities 103.9 244.4 Balance sheet classifications: Deferred tax assets current 315.6 229.9 Deferred tax assets non-current 141.1 46.5 Deferred tax liabilities current Deferred tax liabilities non-current 560.6 520.8 103.9 244.4 1 Excluding $15.0 million of deferred tax assets at December 31, 2013 2012: $6.8 million, related to the net operating losses that result from excess stock based compensation and for which any benefit realized will be recorded to stockholders equity.
At December 31, 2013, the Company had a valuation allowance of $282.4 million 2012: $268.6 million to reduce its deferred tax assets to estimated realizable value.
These valuation allowances related primarily to operating loss, capital loss and tax-credit carry-forwards in Ireland 2013: $78.8 million: 2012: $73.9 million : the US 2013: $60.9 million: 2012: $37.2 million : Germany 2013: $30.8 million: 2012: $96.9 million : and other foreign tax jurisdictions 2013: $111.9 million: 2012: $60.6 million.
Management is required to exercise judgement in determining whether deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized.
A valuation allowance is established where there is an expectation that on the balance of probabilities management considers it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax assets will not be realized.
In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management weighs all available positive and negative evidence including cumulative losses in recent years, projection of future taxable income, carry forward and carry back potential under relevant tax law, expiration period of tax attributes, taxable temporary differences, and prudent and feasible tax-planning strategies.
The net increase in valuation allowances of $13.8 million includes i increases of $104.5 million primarily in respect of losses and other temporary differences in various jurisdictions where management consider that there is insufficient positive evidence in respect of the factors described above to overcome cumulative losses and therefore it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax assets will not be realized in full, and ii a decrease of $90.7 million primarily in respect of German tax losses $67.4m, , which based on the assessment of the factors described above now provides sufficient positive evidence to support that the losses are more likely than not to be realized.
The release of this valuation allowance has been recorded in the current period due to changes in the financing of the German subsidiary.
At December 31, 2013, based upon a consideration of the factors described above management believes it is more likely than not that the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible differences, net of the valuation allowances.
However, the amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted in the future if these factors are revised in the future periods.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Taxation continued The approximate tax effect of NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards as at December 31, are as follows: 2013 2012 $M $M US federal tax NOLs 32.2 26.1 US state tax NOLs 61.5 31.4 UK NOLs 6.7 20.7 Republic of Ireland NOLs 78.8 72.6 Foreign tax jurisdictions 273.1 208.8 R&D and other tax credits 48.3 66.2 The approximate gross value of NOLs and capital losses at December 31, 2013 is $2,583.7 million 2012: $1,783.5 million.
The tax effected NOLs, capital losses and tax credit carry-forwards shown above have the following expiration dates: December 31, 2013 $M Within 1 year 0.9 Within 1 to 2 years 1.1 Within 2 to 3 years 0.7 Within 3 to 4 years 2.9 Within 4 to 5 years 3.0 Within 5 to 6 years 35.6 After 6 years 142.7 Indefinitely 313.7 The Company does not provide for deferred taxes on the excess of the financial reporting over the tax basis in our investments in foreign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration.
At December 31, 2013, that excess totalled approximately $8.9 billion 2012: $7.8billion.
The determination of additional deferred taxes is not practicable and is not provided.
Share-based compensation plans The following table shows the total share-based compensation expense see below for types of share-based awards included in the consolidated statements of income: 2013 2012 $M $M Cost of product sales 4.4 6.3 Research and development 22.8 25.8 Selling, general and administrative 46.9 55.0 Reorganization costs 3.3 Total 77.4 87.1 Less tax 18.1 23.8 59.3 63.3 There were no capitalized share-based compensation costs at December 31, 2013 and 2012.
At December 31, 2013 $97.0 million 2012: $102.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested awards is expected to be recognized over a period of three years.
At December 31, 2013 $90.3 million 2012: $74.6 million of total unrecognized compensation cost relating to non-vested in the money awards based on the average share price during the year is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.7 years 2012: 1.7 years.
The total fair value of in the money awards vested during the year to December 31, 2013 was $70.5 million 2012: $113.9 million.
146 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 28.
Share-based compensation plans continued Share-based compensation plans The Company grants stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs and performance share awards over Ordinary Shares and ADSs to Executive Directors and employees under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan Parts A and B.
The SARs and PSAs granted under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan Part A & B to Executive Directors are exercisable subject to performance and service criteria.
The principal terms and conditions of SARs and PSAs are as follows: i the contractual life of SARs is seven years, ii the vesting period of SARs and PSAs granted to employees below the level of Executive Vice President allows for graded vesting, and iii awards granted to Executive Directors contain performance conditions based on growth in adjusted return on invested capital Adjusted ROIC and earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization Non-GAAP EBITDA.
The Company also operates an Employee Share Purchase Plan and a Sharesave Scheme.
The following awards were outstanding as at December 31, 2013: Compensation Number Expiration period type of awards from date of issue Vesting period Portfolio Share Plan Part A SARs 14,083,748 5 to 7 years 3 years cliff or graded vesting, subject to market or performance criteria for Executive Directors only Sharesave Scheme Stock options 243,783 6 months 3 or 5 years after vesting Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 568,828 On vesting date 1 to 5 years Legacy Plans Stock options 132,823 7 to 10 years 3-10 years, subject to market orperformance criteria Stock-settled SARs and stock options 15,029,182 Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance 2,701,299 3 years 3 years cliff or graded vesting, share awards subject to market or performance criteria for Executive Directors only Performance share awards 2,701,299 Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents.
Stock settled SARs and stock options a Portfolio Share Plan Part A Stock-settled share appreciation rights granted under the Portfolio Share Plan Part A are exercisable subject to performance and service criteria.
In respect of any award made to Executive Directors performance criteria are based on Non-GAAP EBITDA and Adjusted ROIC targets.
These performance measures provide increased alignment to the core activities and strategy of the Company.
Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are not subject to performance conditions and are only subject to service conditions.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the seventh anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
b Shire Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are granted with an exercise price equal to 80% and 75% of the mid-market price on the day before invitations are issued to UK and Ireland employees, respectively.
Employees may enter into three or five year savings contracts.
c Shire Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on the enrolment date the first day of the offering period or the exercise date the last day of the offering period, whichever is the lower.
Employees agree to save for a period up to 12 months.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Share-based compensation plans continued d Legacy plans principally the Shire 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Options granted under this scheme were subject to certain performance criteria, which were based on the Companys share price or diluted EPS growth compared to a fixed growth rate.
At December 31, 2013 all stock options outstanding under this scheme had met the required conditions and were exercisable.
A summary of the status of the Companys SARs and stock options as at December 31, 2013 and of the related transactions during the period then ended is presented below: Weighted average exercise Intrinsic price Number of Value Year to December 31, 2013 shares $M Outstanding as at beginning of period 16.66 18,536,947 Granted 20.05 6,914,026 Exercised 22.09 8,302,740 Forfeited 18.30 2,119,051 Outstanding as at end of period 18.88 15,029,182 143.9 Exercisable as at end of period 15.67 3,670,446 46.9 Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents The weighted average grant date fair value of SARs and stock options granted in the year ended December 31, 2013 was 3.37.
SARs and stock options outstanding as at December 31, 2013 have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted average Weighted average exercise price average Exercise remaining of awards Number of exercise price prices contractual outstanding awards of awards Number of awards outstanding term Years exercisable exercisable 104,658 3.38-7.00 1.1 5.56 104,658 5.56 810,822 7.01-14.00 2.8 11.27 804,402 11.25 14,113,702 14.01-28.00 4.9 18.07 2,761,386 17.34 15,029,182 3,670,446 Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents 148 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
Share-based compensation plans continued Performance shares Portfolio Share Plan Part B Performance share awards granted to Executive Directors under the Portfolio Share Plan Part B are exercisable subject to certain market, performance and service criteria.
In respect of any award granted to Executive Directors, the performance criteria are based on Non-GAAP EBITDA and Adjusted ROIC targets.
A summary of the status of the Companys performance share awards as at December 31, 2013 and of the related transactions during the period then ended is presented below: Aggregate intrinsic Weighted Number of value average Performance share awards shares M remaining life Outstanding as at beginning of period 3,518,138 Granted 1,508,631 Exercised 1,826,648 Forfeited 498,822 Outstanding as at end of period 2,701,299 76.9 5.5 Exercisable as at end of period N A N A Number of awards are stated in terms of Ordinary Share equivalents The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance share awards granted in the year to December 31, 2013 is 19.71.
Exercises of employee share-based awards The total intrinsic values of share-based awards exercised for the years to December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were $298.3 million, $224.1 million and $189.3 million, respectively.
The total cash received from employees as a result of employee share option exercises for the period to December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was approximately $17.2 million, $16.2 million and $13.4 million, respectively.
In connection with these exercises, the tax benefit credited to additional paid-in capital for the years to December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $11.9 million, $40.1 million and $29.4 million respectively.
The Company will settle future employee share award exercises with either newly listed common shares or with shares held in the EBT.
The number of shares to be purchased by the EBT during 2013 will be dependent on the number of employee share awards granted and exercised during the year and Shire plcs share price.
At December 31, 2013 the EBT held 2.4 million Ordinary Shares and 0.4 million ADSs.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Share-based compensation plans continued Valuation methodologies The Company estimates the fair value of its share-based awards using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Key input assumptions used to estimate the fair value of sharebased awards include the grant price of the award, the expected stock-based award term, volatility of the Companys share price, the risk-free rate and the Companys dividend yield.
The Company believes that the valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair values of Shires stock-based awards.
Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the Company under guidance issued by the FASB on share-based payment transactions.
The fair value of share awards granted was estimated using the following assumptions: 2013 2012 Period ended December 31, $M $M 1 Risk-free interest rate 0.1-0.9% 0.2-1% Expected dividend yield 0.4-0.6% 0-0.6% Expected life 1-4 years 1-4 years Volatility 23-26% 24-32% Forfeiture rate 5-9% 5-7% 1 Risk free interest rate is for UK and US grants The following assumptions were used to value share-based awards: risk-free interest rate for awards granted over ADSs, the US Federal Reserve treasury constant maturities rate with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used.
For awards granted over Ordinary Shares, the yield on UK government bonds with a term consistent with the expected life of the award is used: expected dividend yield measured as the average annualized dividend estimated to be paid by the Company over the expected life of the award as a percentage of the share price at the grant date: expected life estimated based on the contractual term of the awards and the effects of employees expected exercise and post-vesting employment termination behaviour: expected volatility measured using historical daily price changes of the Companys share price over the respective expected life of the share-based awards at the date of the award: and the forfeiture rate is estimated using historical trends of the number of awards forfeited prior to vesting.
150 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 29.
Principal Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2013 Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation 3829359 Canada Inc. Canada Advanced Biohealing Corp US FerroKin BioSciences, Inc. United States Jerini Holding Limited Malta Jerini Ophthalmic Holding GmbH Germany Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc. United States Jerini Trading Limited Malta JPT Peptide Technologies, Inc. United States Lotus Tissue Repair Inc US Monmouth Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Movetis GmbH Germany Movetis Limited United Kingdom Pharma International Insurance Limited Ireland Rybar Laboratories Limited United Kingdom Premacure AB Luxembourg Sweden Premacure Uppsala AB Sweden SARcode Bioscience Inc US SHGT Executive Services, Inc. United States Shire Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Consultancy Co. Ltd China Shire 2005 Investments Limited Cayman Islands Shire Acquisition, Inc. Canada Shire Australia Pty Limited Australia Shire Belgium BVBA Belgium Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Ireland Limited Jersey Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Brandywine LLC United States Shire Canada, Inc. Canada Shire Colombia S. A. S. Colombia Shire Czech S. R. O. Czech Republic Shire Denmark ApS Denmark Shire Deutschland GmbH Germany Shire Deutschland Investments GmbH Germany Shire Development, LLC.
United States Shire Europe Finance United Kingdom Shire Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Executive Services LLC United States Shire Farmacutica Brasil LTDA Brazil Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands Shire Finland Oy Finland Shire France S. A. France Shire Global Finance United Kingdom Shire GmbH Germany Shire Hellas Pharmaceuticals Import Export and Marketing S. A. Greece WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Principal Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2013 continued Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation Shire Holdings Europe B. V. Netherlands Shire Holdings Europe Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings Europe No.
2 S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire Holdings Ireland Ireland Shire Holdings Ireland No.
2 Limited Ireland Shire Holdings Limited Bermuda Shire Holdings Luxembourg S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Holdings UK Canada Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Holdings US AG United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies Canada Inc. Canada Shire Human Genetic Therapies AB Sweden Shire Human Genetic Therapies Limited United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies S. A. Argentina Shire Human Genetic Therapies Securities Corporation United States Shire Human Genetic Therapies UK Limited United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies, Inc. United States Shire Incorporated United States Shire Intellectual Property 2 SRL Barbados Shire Intellectual Property Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Intellectual Property SRL Barbados Shire International GmbH Switzerland Shire International Licensing BV Netherlands Shire Investement Inc United States Shire Investments & Finance U. K. Company United Kingdom Shire IP Services Corporation Canada Shire Ireland Finance Limited Ireland Shire Italia S. p. A. Italy Shire Ireland Investement Limited Ireland Shire Ireland Premacure Investment Ireland Shire Japan KK Japan Shire Jersey Limited Jersey Shire LLC United States Shire Luxembourg Finance S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
2 S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property No.
3 S. a. r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Property S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg S. a r. l. Luxembourg Shire-Movetis NV Belgium Shire North America Group Inc. United States Shire Norway AS Norway Shire Orphan Therapies GmbH Germany Shire Orphan Therapies, Inc. United States Shire Orphan and Rare Diseases GmbH Switzerland Shire Pharma Korea Yuhan Hoesa Korea 152 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
Principal Subsidiaries as at December 31, 2013 continued Subsidiary undertaking Jurisdiction of incorporation Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Development Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Development, Inc. United States Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Holdings Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Limited Malta Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Trading Ireland Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investments 2008 Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Group United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica S. L. Spain Shire Pharmaceuticals International Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments British Virgin Islands Limited Virgin Islands, British Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments 2007 Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals LLC United States Shire Pharmaceuticals Mexico SA fide CV Mexico Shire Pharmaceuticals Portugal, Lda Portugal Shire Pharmaceuticals Services Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Trading Limited Company Turkey Shire Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland Shire Properties US United States Shire Regulatory, Inc. United States Shire Regenerative Medicine, Inc. United States Shire Rus Limited Liability Company Russia Shire Supplies U. S. LLC United States Shire Sinagpore Pte.
Ltd Singapore Shire Sweden AB Sweden Shire Sweden Holdings S. a. r. l. Sweden Shire UK Investments Limited United Kingdom Shire US Holdings, Inc. United States Shire US Investments United Kingdom Shire US Manufacturing, Inc. United States Shire US, Inc. United States Sparkleflame Limited United Kingdom Tanaud International BV Netherlands Tanaud Ireland Inc. Ireland The Endocrine Centre Limited United Kingdom TKT Argentina S. R. L. Argentina Venus NewCo Inc United States All subsidiary undertakings of Shire plc are beneficially owned directly or indirectly as to 100% and are all consolidated in the consolidated financial statements of Shire plc.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Auditor remuneration The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit and non-audit services, including tax advisory and compliance services, provided by the Companys Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte LLP, and the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Registered Public Accountants.
In recognition of the importance of maintaining the independence of Deloitte LLP, a process for pre-approval has been in place since July 1, 2002 and has continued through to the end of the period covered by this Annual Report.
The following table provides an analysis of the amount paid to the Companys Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte LLP, all fees having been pre-approved by the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee.
2013 2012 Year to December 31, $M $M Audit of the Company 3.5 2.5 Audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.5 0.5 1 Total audit fee 4.0 3.0 Tax compliance services i. e. related to assistance with corporate tax returns 0.2 0.2 2 Total services relating to taxation 0.2 0.2 3 Other non-audit services 0.4 0.3 Total non-audit services 0.6 0.5 Total fees 4.6 3.5 1 Audit fees consisted of audit work only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory audits.
2 Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to compliance, planning and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
3 Other non-audit services consist of work generally only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as procedures relating to regulatory filings.
154 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 31.
Aggregate Directors remuneration The following table gives details of the aggregate remuneration paid to Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors including the value of the exercise of options, SAR Awards and vesting of PSA Awards: 2013 2012 Year to December 31, $000 $000 Emoluments 7,343 5,595 Money purchase pension contributions 505 571 Sub-total of annual emoluments 7,848 6,166 1 Other income arising from release exercise of long term incentives Gains on exercise of share options and SAR Awards and release of PSA Awards 10,481 20,447 Gains on the release of EAIP Awards 1,447 1,515 2 Total Emoluments and other income arising from long term incentives 19,776 28,128 1 Includes the value of shares that were released under long term plans and gains realised in these years.
2 For the purpose of this table amounts denominated in Pounds sterling have been converted to US dollar amounts at the average exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2013 of 1:$1.5643 and for 2012 of 1:$1.5869.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 155 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information We know that we have to always embrace change to stay ahead and deliver our growth ambitions.
Working together as one In 2013 we reorganized the company to form a simpler, more cohesive and streamlined organization One Shire We now have four market-focused business units and a single innovation-driven R&D organization supported by unified global corporate functions Significant cost savings have come from creating One Shire We have also been able to streamline decision making and improve our commercial excellence, which has underpinned accelerated growth Our unified way of working comes to life through our employees who together form One Shire.
Their great contributions and unwavering commitment to meeting the needs of our patients make all the difference ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 157
