Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Cautionary statements Statements included in this release that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are subject to change at any time.
In the event such risks or uncertainties materialize, Shires results could be materially adversely affected.
The risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, that: Shires products may not be a commercial success: revenues from ADDERALL XR are subject to generic erosion and revenues from INTUNIV will become subject to generic competition starting in December 2014: the failure to obtain and maintain reimbursement, or an adequate level of reimbursement, by third-party payors in a timely manner for Shires products may impact future revenues, financial condition and results of operations: Shire conducts its own manufacturing operations for certain of its Rare Diseases products and is reliant on third party contractors to manufacture other products and to provide goods and services.
Some of Shires products or ingredients are only available from a single approved source for manufacture.
Any disruption to the supply chain for any of Shires products may result in Shire being unable to continue marketing or developing a product or may result in Shire being unable to do so on a commercially viable basis for some period of time: the development, approval and manufacturing of Shires products is subject to extensive oversight by various regulatory agencies and regulatory approvals or interventions associated with changes to manufacturing sites, ingredients or manufacturing processes could lead to significant delays, increase in operating costs, lost product sales, an interruption of research activities or the delay of new product launches: the actions of certain customers could affect Shires ability to sell or market products profitably.
Fluctuations in buying or distribution patterns by such customers can adversely impact Shires revenues, financial conditions or results of operations: investigations or enforcement action by regulatory authorities or law enforcement agencies relating to Shires activities in the highly regulated markets in which it operates may result in the distraction of senior management, significant legal costs and the payment of substantial compensation or fines: adverse outcomes in legal matters and other disputes, including Shires ability to enforce and defend patents and other intellectual property rights required for its business, could have a material adverse effect on Shires revenues, financial condition or results of operations: Shire faces intense competition for highly qualified personnel from other companies, academic institutions, government entities and other organizations.
Shire is undergoing a corporate reorganization and the consequent uncertainty could adversely impact Shires ability to attract and or retain the highly skilled personnel needed for Shire to meet its strategic objectives: failure to achieve Shires strategic objectives with respect to the acquisition of ViroPharma Incorporated may adversely affect Shires financial condition and results of operations: and other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in Shires filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including those risks outlined in pages 24 to 29.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 167 Shire plc Annual report and financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2013 168 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Contents Page Officers and professional advisors Directors Officers and professional advisors 169 Matthew Emmens Directors report 170 Dr. Flemming Ornskov Graham Hetherington Directors responsibilities statement 173 Dominic Blakemore Independent Auditors report 174 William Burns Dr. Steven Gillis Profit and loss account 176 Dr. David Ginsburg Balance sheet 176 David Kappler Susan Kilsby Notes to the financial statements 177 Anne Minto OBE David Stout Company Secretary Tatjana May Registered office 22 Grenville Street St Helier JE4 8PX Jersey Corporate headquarters 5 Riverwalk Citywest Business Campus Dublin 24 Republic of Ireland Auditor Deloitte LLP London United Kingdom WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 169 Directors report The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial Income Access Share arrangements statements for the year ended December 31, 2013.
In 2008 Shire put in place and continues to operate Income Access Share IAS arrangements enabling shareholders to Principal activity and business review choose whether they receive their dividends from a company tax Shire plc and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either resident in the Republic of Ireland or from a company tax resident Shire, or the Company is a leading specialty in the UK.
Further details in respect of the IAS arrangements can biopharmaceutical company that focuses on developing and be found in the Shire Annual Report.
marketing innovative specialty medicines that address significant Results and dividends unmet patient needs.
A loss on ordinary activities before taxation of $69.9 million was The Company has grown through acquisition, completing a recorded for the year ended December 31, 2013 year ended series of major transactions that have brought therapeutic, December 31, 2012: $74.1 million.
geographic and pipeline growth and diversification.
The The net assets of the Company increased from $9,548.4 million Company will continue to evaluate companies, products and for the year ended December 31, 2012 to $10,474.1 million for pipeline opportunities that offer a good strategic fit and have the theyear ended December 31, 2013, primarily as a result of the potential to deliver demonstrable value to all of the Companys Companys 2.75% Convertible Bonds converting in the year.
stakeholders: patients, physicians, policy makers, payors, investors and employees.
Dividends paid and dividend policy The Company unified its business during 2013 by integrating The Company paid dividends amounting to $5.7 million in the theoperations of the Specialty Pharmaceuticals SP, Human year 2012: $4.8 million.
In accordance with IAS arrangements, Genetic Therapies HGT and Regenerative Medicine RM the Company directed Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings to business units into a simplified One Shire organization.
The paydividends totalling $91.1 million 2012: $81.5 million to OneShire model has created a simple structure and a focused, thoseshareholders who choose to receive their dividends efficient organization that is scalable for growth.
fromacompany tax resident in the UK.
A first interim dividend for the six months to June 30, 2013 The principal legislation under which the Company operates is of3.00cents 1.95 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to Companies Jersey Law 1991 and regulations made thereunder.
9.00cents per ADS, was paid in October 2013.
The Board The Ordinary Shares of the Company are listed on the London hasresolved to pay a second interim dividend of 16.93 cents Stock Exchange in the UK, and American Depositary Shares 10.21 pence per Ordinary Share equivalent to 50.79 cents ADS, representing three Ordinary Shares of the Company, perADS for the six months to December 31, 2013. evidenced by an American Depositary Receipt issued by Shires Depositary, Citibank, N. A. are listed on the NASDAQ Global This is consistent with Shires stated policy of paying a dividend Select Market in the USA.
semi-annually, set in US cents per Ordinary Share.
Typically, the first interim payment each year will be higher than the previous Business review years first interim USD dividend.
Dividend growth for the full year The Business review of the Group can be found in the will be reviewed by the Board when the second interim dividend consolidated financial statements and Annual Report and is determined.
However there is no guarantee that dividends will Accounts of the Company for the year to December 31, 2013, be declared for any period.
prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Listing Authority requirements the Shire Annual Report : in the Chairmans Liquidity, cash flow and going concern reviewon pages 04 and 05: the Chief Executive Officers review The Company and the Groups business activities, together with on pages 06 to 09 and the Review of our business on pages the factors likely to affect its future development, performance 34to49.
The Shire Annual Report also provides a description and position are set out in the Shire Annual Report in the oftheprincipal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and Chairmans review, Chief Executive Officers review and Review the Group as well as the Groups risk management objectives ofour business.
The financial position of the Company and the and policies that are in place to assist in mitigating the potential Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities impact.
Details of the Companys financial risks can be found aredescribed in the Liquidity and capital resources section of the inNote N on page 184 to these financial statements.
Review of our business of the Shire Annual Report.
The Review During the year the Company continued in its capacity as ofour business also includes information in respect of the theparent company for the Group in the management of its Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital: subsidiaries.
its financial risk management objectives: details of its hedging activity: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Details The Company is tax resident in the Republic of Ireland.
of the Companys financial instruments are disclosed in Note N on page 184 to these financial statements.
Key performance indicators The Companys key performance indicators are the same as the Groups.
For details of the Groups key performance indicators see page 30 in the Shire Annual Report.
170 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Shire 2.75% Convertible Bonds due 2014 Shire shall also pay a commitment fee on the available but On November 26, 2013, Shire issued an optional redemption unutilized commitments under the $0.55 billion term loan facility notice under the Trust Deed dated May 9, 2007 the Trust Deed and the $0.85 billion term loan facility for the availability period to holders the Holders of the Companys 2.75% Convertible applicable to each facility.
With effect from first utilization, the Bonds due 2014 the Bonds.
The aggregate outstanding commitment fee rate will be 35% of the applicable margin.
principal amount of Bonds on November 25, 2013, the last Before first utilization, the commitment fee rate will increase in practicable date prior to the date of the optional redemption stages from 0% to 35% of the applicable margin over a period notice, was $1,075,070,000.
The last day on which bondholders of three months.
were able to exercise their conversion rights was December 13, The Facilities Agreement includes customary representations and 2013.
Those Bonds which were not voluntarily converted were warranties, covenants and events of default, including redeemed by the Company on December 27, 2013 at par requirements that the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA of the Group together with interest accrued to that date.
As of December 31, each as defined in the Facilities Agreement must not, at any 2013, Bonds in an aggregate principal amount of the time, exceed 3.5:1 for the Relevant Period as defined in the $1,099,050,000 had been voluntarily converted into 33,806,464 Facilities Agreement, except that following certain acquisitions, fully paid Ordinary Shares at a conversion price of US$32.51 per including the ViroPharma acquisition, Shire may elect to increase Ordinary Share, in the capital of the Company, with par value of the ratio to 4.0:1 in the relevant period in which the acquisition 0.05 each.
The remaining outstanding Bonds in an aggregate was completed and the immediately following relevant period.
In principle amount of $950,000 were redeemed pursuant to the addition, for each 12-month period ending December 31 or June Optional Redemption Notice issued on November 26, 2013.
30, the ratio of EBITDA of the Group to Net Interest each as Following the redemption of all the outstanding Bonds, the defined in the Facilities Agreement must not be less than 4.0:1.
Company cancelled the listing of the Bonds on the Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority and the admission to The Facilities Agreement restricts subject to certain covenants trading of the Bonds on the Professional Securities Market of the Shires ability to incur additional financial indebtedness, grant London Stock Exchange.
security over its assets or provide or guarantee loans.
Furthermore, any lender may require mandatory prepayment of Term Loan Agreement its participation if there is a change of control of Shire.
In addition, On November 11, 2013, Shire entered into a $2.60 billion Facilities in certain circumstances, the net proceeds of certain shares, Agreement with, among others, Morgan Stanley Bank undertakings or business disposals by Shire must be applied International Limited acting as lead arranger and agent the towards the mandatory prepayment of the facilities, subject to Facilities Agreement.
The Facilities Agreement comprises two certain exceptions.
credit facilities: i a $1.75 billion term loan facility and ii a $0.85 billion term loan facility.
Events of default under the facilities include: i non-payment of any amounts due under the facilities, ii failure to satisfy any On December 13, 2013 and on February 21, 2014, the Company financial covenants, iii material misrepresentation in any of the cancelled part of the $2.60 billion term loan facility.
The revised finance documents, iv failure to pay, or certain other defaults, Facilities Agreement of $1.75 billion now comprises two credit under other financial indebtedness, v certain insolvency events facilities: i a $0.55 billion term loan facility and ii a $0.85 billion or proceedings, vi material adverse changes in the business, term loan facility.
All other terms and conditions remain operations, assets or financial condition of Shire and its unchanged.
subsidiaries, vii if it becomes unlawful for Shire or any of its The $0.55 billion term loan facility, which matures on November subsidiaries that are parties to the Facilities Agreement to perform 10, 2014, may be used only to finance the purchase price payable their obligations or viii if Shire or any subsidiary of Shire which is in respect of Shires acquisition of ViroPharma including certain a party to the Facilities Agreement repudiates the Facilities related costs and for the redemption of Shires Bonds.
Shire has Agreement or any other finance document, among others.
The the option to extend the maturity of the $0.55 billion term loan Facilities Agreement is governed by English law.
facility once by a further 364 days.
Revolving Credit Facilities Agreement The $0.85 billion term loan facility, which matures on November In addition, the Group has committed multi-currency revolving 11, 2015, may be used only to finance the purchase price payable and swingline facilities of $1,200 million which mature in 2015 the in respect of Shires acquisition of ViroPharma including certain RCF.
The RCF, which includes a $250 million swingline facility, related costs.
may be used for general corporate purposes and matures on November 23, 2015.
Interest on any loans made under the facilities will be payable on the last day of each interest period, which may be one week or Going concern one, two, three or six months at the election of Shire, or as The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company otherwise agreed with the lenders.
The interest rate applicable to and the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational the $0.55 billion term loan facility is LIBOR plus 0.75% per annum existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the Directors and increases by 0.25% per annum on August 11, 2014 and on continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in three-month intervals thereafter.
Further details regarding the adoption of the going concern basis can be found in the The interest rate applicable to the $0.85 billion term loan facility accounting policies in the notes to the financial statements.
commenced at LIBOR plus 1.15% per annum until delivery of the compliance certificate for the year ending December 31, 2013 and thereafter is subject to change depending upon the prevailing ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA of the Group each as defined in the Facilities Agreement, in respect of the most recently completed financial year or financial half year.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 171 Directors report continued Directors Subsequent events The Directors who served during the year and up to the date of On January 16, 2014, Shire announced that it had sold its signing these financial statements are shown below: DERMAGRAFT assets to Organogenesis comprising the key operating assets relating to the development, manufacture and sale of the DERMAGRAFT product.
These assets include Matthew Emmens intellectual property relating to DERMAGRAFT including patents, Angus Russell resigned April 30, 2013 trademarks and know-how: regulatory filings and registrations Dr. Flemming Ornskov appointed January 02, 2013 relating to DERMAGRAFT: certain manufacturing plant, equipment and materials: DERMAGRAFT product inventory and Graham Hetherington accounts receivable.
Dominic Blakemore appointed January 01, 2014 Auditor William Burns Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: Dr. Steven Gillis so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Dr. David Ginsburg information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and David Kappler the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Susan Kilsby taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Anne Minto OBE auditor is aware of that information.
David Stout Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office Purchase of own shares as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at During the year to December 31, 2012 the Company commenced the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
a share buyback program, for the purpose of returning funds to shareholders, of up to $500 million through both direct purchases Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: of Ordinary Shares and through the purchase of Ordinary Shares underlying ADRs.
During the year ended December 31, 2013 the Company made on-market repurchases totaling 6,191,965 Ordinary Shares at a cost of $193 million excluding transaction costs.
The program Tatjana May covers purchases of Ordinary Shares for cancellation or to be Company Secretary held as treasury shares, in accordance with the authority February 24, 2014 renewed by shareholders at the Companys AGM on April 30, 2013 when the Company was authorized to make market purchases of up to 55,741,587 of its own Ordinary Shares.
On November 11, 2013, contemporaneous with Shires announcement of its acquisition of ViroPharma, the Companys share buyback program was terminated.
Since the inception of the share buyback program the Company had purchased $300 million of Ordinary Shares and Ordinary Shares underlying ADRs.
Payment of creditors The Company is non-trading and accordingly has no trade creditors.
Directors liability insurance and indemnification In the year under review, the Group maintained an insurance policy for its Directors and Officers in respect of liabilities arising out of any act, error or omission whilst acting in their capacity as Directors or Officers.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions were also in place during the year under review for the benefit of Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may potentially incur to third-parties in the course of their duties.
These remain in force at the date of this report.
172 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with United Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, give a true statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice consolidation taken as a whole: United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
the strategic report includes a fair review of the development Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial and performance of the business and the position of the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial risks and uncertainties that they face: and statements, the Directors are required to: the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are select suitable accounting policies and then apply them fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information consistently: necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable By order of the Board and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Graham Hetherington unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Director continue in business.
February 24, 2014 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 173 Independent Auditors report to the members of Shire plc Opinion on financial statements of Shire plc In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The financial statements comprise the profit and loss account, balance sheet and the related notes A to P. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement that the Company is a going concern.
Weconfirm thatwe have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements isappropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team: Risk How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Investment in subsidiaries We have challenged the Directors impairment analysis and have considered the valuation of the Companys subsidiary against other indicators of value such as the overall market capitalisation of the Shire group.
There is a risk that the Companys investment in Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited may be impaired.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the financial statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Company to be $60 million, based on the net assets of the Company and then capped at materiality established for the Shire plc group financial statements.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $3m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
174 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information An overview of the scope of our audit Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the entity and its environment, including internal control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement.
Audit work to respond to the risks of material misstatement was performed directly by the audit engagement team.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report Under International Standards on auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
We confirm that we have not identified any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to stateto them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for theopinions we have formed.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
James Bates Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London February 24, 2014 WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 175 Financial statements Profit and loss account For the year ended December 31, 2013 2013 2012 Note $M $M Administrative expenses 34.6 28.5 Operating loss C 34.6 28.5 Interest payable and similar charges D 35.3 45.6 Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 69.9 74.1 Tax on loss on ordinary activities E Loss on ordinary activities after taxation 69.9 74.1 All activities of the Company relate to continuing operations.
There are no recognized gains and losses other than those stated above.
Accordingly, no statement of total recognized gains and losses has been presented.
Balance sheet As at December 31, 2013 2013 2012 Note $M $M Fixed assets Investment in subsidiaries G 11,044.9 10,972.2 Current assets Debtors H 53.2 29.1 Current liabilities Creditors: amounts falling due within one year I 624.0 352.9 Net current liabilities 570.8 323.8 Total assets less current liabilities 10,474.1 10,648.4 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year J 1,100.0 Net assets 10,474.1 9,548.4 Capital and reserves Calledup share capital K 58.5 55.7 Share premium account L 7,056.7 5,941.9 Equity component of convertible bonds L 43.2 Other reserve L 418.3 302.4 Profit and loss account L 3,240.7 3,311.7 Treasury shares M 300.1 106.5 Shareholders funds L 10,474.1 9,548.4 The financial statements of the Company were approved by the Board of Directors and authorized for issue on February 24, 2014.
They were signed on its behalf by: Graham Hetherington Director 176 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2013 Expenditure A.
Presentation of the financial statements Expenditure is recognized in respect of goods and services Preparation of financial statements received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
These separate financial statements of the Company are Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally respect of a past event and where the amount of the obligation Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP as at December 31, can be reliably estimated.
2013 and in accordance with the requirements of Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They have been prepared under the historical Local currency and currency translation cost convention except for the revaluation of certain financial The financial statements have been presented in local currency, instruments at fair value as permitted by the Companies Jersey US dollar.
The local currency is defined as the currency of the Law 1991 and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of Consolidated accounts prepared in conformity with accounting exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets principles generally accepted in the United States of America US and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance GAAP, in which the financial results and cash flow statement of sheet dates are reported at the rate of exchange prevailing at that the Company and its subsidiaries are included, can be found in date.
Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in the Shire Annual Report.
a foreign currency are not retranslated.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance Share-based compensation with the Companys accounting policies described below, which The Company operates equity-settled, share-based have been applied consistently throughout the current and compensation plans.
The fair value of the employee services preceding year and have been approved by the Board.
received in exchange for the grant of the options has been valued using option-pricing models.
Accounting policies awards granted without market conditions are valued using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
Options and performance Going Liquidity, cash flow and going concern share awards granted with market conditions are valued using a The Groups balance sheet includes $2,239.4 million of cash and binomial model.
In accordance with FRS 20 Share-based cash equivalents at December 31, 2013.
The Group has payment, the resulting cost for the Companys employees is committed multi-currency revolving and swingline facilities of recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting $1.20 billion, which mature in 2015, and a $1.75 billion Facilities period of the awards.
The value of the charge is adjusted to Agreement.
reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
The cost for awards The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company granted to the Companys subsidiaries employees represents and the Group have adequate resources to continue in additional capital contributions by the Company in its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
An additional investment in subsidiaries has been Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis of recorded in respect of those awards granted to the Companys accounting in preparing the report and financial statements.
subsidiaries employees, with a corresponding increase in the Companys shareholders equity.
The additional capital Investments contribution is based on the fair value at the grant date of the Investments held as fixed assets are stated at historic cost less awards issued.
This accounting treatment applies as the parent any provision for impairment.
has granted the share option rather than being subsidiary Dividends paid and received granting an option in the parents equity.
Dividend distributions to the Companys shareholders are Financial liabilities and equity recognized as a liability in the Companys financial statements Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified in the period in which the shareholders right to receive payment according to the substance of the contractual arrangements is established.
Dividend income is recognized in the profit and entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences loss account on the date the Companys right to receive payment a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting is established.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 177 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2013 continued Convertible bonds B.
Accounting policies continued On issuance, or substitution from other Shire Group companies, Taxation of convertible bonds the Company bifurcates these convertible Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or bonds into their debt and equity components.
The fair value of recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or the debt component is estimated using the market interest rate substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
for an equivalent non-convertible bond.
If the fair value of an equivalent non-convertible bond is greater than the carrying value Deferred tax is recognized in respect of all timing differences that of convertible bond, then the limit of the carrying value of have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where convertible bond allocated to the liabilities is that carrying value.
transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax The amount allocated to the debt component is classified as a in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred liability and subsequently measured on an amortized cost basis at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences until extinguished on conversion or redemption of the bonds.
The between the Companys taxable profits and its results as stated remainder of the proceeds from the issuance, or the fair value on in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains substitution from other Shire Group companies, of convertible and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in bonds is allocated to the equity component, which represents which they are recognized in the financial statements.
the embedded conversion option, and is classified in A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore shareholders equity, net of any income tax effects.
The carrying recognized only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it amount of the equity component is not re-measured in can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable subsequent periods.
On conversion the equity component has taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying been reclassified to Other Reserves in line with the requirements timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the rates that are expected to apply Treasury shares in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to Where the Company purchases the Companys own share reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or capital, the consideration paid is deducted from the total substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax shareholders funds and classified as treasury shares until they balances are not discounted.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or re-issued, any consideration received is included in total Related party transactions shareholders funds.
Under the provisions of FRS 8 Related party disclosures, as the consolidated financial statements in which the Companys results Where the Company enters a financial close or other prohibited are included have been made available to the public, the period and broker contracts cannot be cancelled in this period, a Company is not required to separately disclose details of related liability equivalent to the present value of the maximum number of party transactions with relation to wholly owned subsidiaries.
shares available to purchase is debited against total equity.
Accretion of the discount is recorded in the profit and loss during Pensions the close period.
Shares purchased in the close period are The Company contributes to personal defined contribution deducted from the liability and are recorded as treasury shares pension plans of employees.
Contributions are charged to the with any remaining liability on leaving the close period is reversed profit and loss account as they become payable.
Differences with a corresponding credit in shareholder equity.
between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.
178 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information C. Operating loss The operating loss is stated after charging.
2013 2012 $M $M Staff costs: Salaries and wages 5.4 4.1 Social security costs 0.5 0.5 Pension contributions 1.3 0.8 Share-based payments to Directors 4.6 6.5 Directors fees 2.3 2.1 14.1 14.0 Foreign exchange losses 0.3 0.2 The Company employed two employees during the year 2012: two.
The Auditors remuneration in respect of audit and other services is disclosed in Note 30 of the Shire Annual Report in the consolidated accounts for the year ending December 31, 2013.
The fee payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements was $13,000 2012: $13,000.
D. Interest payable and similar charges 2013 2012 $M $M Interest payable on convertible bonds 28.3 43.9 Interest payable on amounts owed to Group undertakings 6.9 1.7 Bank interest payable 0.1 35.3 45.6 Interest charged on the convertible bonds represents the 2.75% coupon and the amortization of issue costs and discount arising on substitution of the convertible bonds at the time of the Scheme of Arrangement in 2008, see Note I. E. Tax on loss on ordinary activities There was $nil corporation tax charged for the year ended December 31, 2013 2012: $nil.
The differences between the total current tax and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of Irish corporation tax to the loss before tax is as follows: 2013 2012 $M $M Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 69.9 74.1 Tax on loss on ordinary activities at standard Irish corporation tax rate of 25% 17.5 18.5 Effects of: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 8.9 13.0 Group relief surrendered 1.3 0.2 Movements on deferred tax not recognized 7.3 5.3 Current tax charge for the year WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 179 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2013 continued F. Dividends Ordinary Shares 2013 2012 $M $M Second interim dividend 14.38 cents 9.39 pence per Ordinary Share, 79.7 equivalent to 43.80 cents per ADS, paid in April 2013 First interim dividend 3.00 cents 1.95 pence per Ordinary Share, 17.1 equivalent to 9.00 cents per ADS, paid in October 2013 Second interim dividend 12.59 cents 7.96 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to 37.77 US cents per ADS, paid in April 2012 70.7 First interim dividend 2.73 cents 1.74 pence per Ordinary Share, equivalent to 8.19 cents per ADS, paid in October 2012 15.6 96.8 86.3 Of the above amounts, the Company paid dividends amounting to $5.7 million in the year 2012: $4.8 million.
In accordance with IAS arrangements, the Company directed Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings to pay dividends totalling $91.1 million 2012: $81.5 million to those shareholders who choose to receive their dividends from a company tax resident in the UK.
The Board has resolved to pay a second interim dividend of 16.93 cents 10.21 pence per Ordinary Share equivalent to 50.79 cents per ADS for the six months to December 31, 2013.
G. Investments in subsidiaries 2013 2012 $M $M Cost As at January 1, 10,972.2 10,891.6 Capital contribution relating to share-based payments 72.7 80.6 As at December 31 11,044.9 10,972.2 Subsidiaries Details of the Companys direct subsidiaries as at December 31, 2013 are as follows: Country of incorporation Principal activity Holding Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Limited Republic of Ireland Holding Company 100% Details of the Companys indirect subsidiaries can be found in Note 29 of the Shire Annual Report in the consolidated accounts for the year ending December 31, 2013.
H. Debtors 2013 2012 $M $M Amounts due from Group undertakings 42.2 29.0 Other debtors 11.0 0.1 53.2 29.1 The amounts due from Group undertakings are primarily US dollar denominated and non-interest bearing.
An amount of $12.3 million 2012: $nil bears interest at floating rates of interest.
Deferred tax The Company had an unrecognised deferred tax asset of $19.5 million 2012: $14.7 million in respect of short term timing differences and losses as at December 31, 2013.
180 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information I.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2013 2012 $M $M Amounts owed to Group undertakings 620.5 344.3 Accrued interest 0.1 4.4 Other creditors 3.4 4.1 624.0 352.9 The amounts due to Group undertakings are primarily unsecured, US dollar denominated, repayable on demand and bear interest at floating rates of interest.
Shire 2.75% convertible bonds The Bonds bore interest at 2.75% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on November 9 and May 9.
The Bonds constituted direct, unconditional, unsubordinated and unsecured obligations of the Company, and rank pari passu and ratably, without any preference amongst themselves, and equally with all other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company.
The Bonds were redeemable at the option of the Company, at their principal amount together with accrued and unpaid interest if: i at any time after May 23, 2012 if on no less than 20 dealing days in any period of 30 consecutive dealing days the value of Shires Ordinary Shares underlying each Bond in the principal amount of $100,000 would exceed $130,000: or ii at any time conversion rights have been exercised, and or purchases and corresponding cancellations, and or redemptions effected in respect of 85% or more in principal amount of Bonds originally issued.
The Bonds were repayable in US dollars, but also contain provisions entitling the Company to settle redemption amounts in Pounds sterling, or in the case of the Final Maturity Date and or any change of control Shire, by delivery of the underlying Ordinary Shares and a cash top-up amount.
The Bonds were convertible into Ordinary Shares during the conversion period, being the period from June 18, 2007 until the earlier of: i the close of business on the date falling fourteen days prior to the Final Maturity Date: ii if the Bonds have been called for redemption by the Company, the close of business fourteen days before the date fixed for redemption: iii the close of business on the day prior to a Bond holder giving notice of redemption in accordance with the conditions: and iv the giving of notice by the trustee that the Bonds are accelerated by reason of the occurrence of an event of default.
Upon conversion, the Bond holder is entitled to receive Ordinary Shares at the conversion price of $32.83 per Ordinary Share, subject to adjustment as outlined below.
The conversion price is subject to adjustment in respect of i any dividend or distribution by the Company, ii a change of control and iii customary anti-dilution adjustments for, inter alia, share consolidations, share splits, spin-off events, rights issues, bonus issues and reorganizations.
The initial conversion price of $33.5879 was adjusted to $33.17 with effect from March 11, 2009 as a result of cumulative dividend payments during the period from October 2007 to April 2009 inclusive, and was further adjusted to $32.83 with effect from March 11, 2011 as a result of cumulative dividend payments during the period April 2009 to April 2011 inclusive.
The Ordinary Shares issued on conversion will be delivered credited as fully paid, and will rank pari passu in all respects with all fully paid Ordinary Shares in issue on the relevant conversion date.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 181 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2013 continued I.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year continued Shire 2.75% convertible bonds The value of the Bonds as recognized in the balance sheet is as follows: 2013 2012 $M $M Nominal value of 2.75% convertible bonds due 2014 1,100.0 Liability component at January 1 1,104.4 1,090.7 i Interest charged 28.3 24.5 Interest paid 30.3 10.8 Redeemed bonds converted to Ordinary Shares 1,101.5 Redeemed bonds settled by cash 09 Liability component at December 31 1,104.4 Of which: Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 1,100.0 ii Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 4.4 Liability component at December 31 1,104.4 i Interest charged represents the accrued coupon and amortization of discount.
ii Interest payable represents the coupon of 2.75% on the Bonds.
On November 26, 2013, Shire issued an optional redemption notice under the Trust Deed to the Holders of the Bonds.
Pursuant to the terms of the Trust Deed, the Bonds which Holders elected to convert as of December 31, 2013 were converted into 33,806,464 Ordinary Shares at a conversion price of $32.51 per Ordinary Share.
Creditors: amounts falling after more than one year 2013 2012 $M $M Convertible bonds 1,100.0 As per Note I, the bonds were redeemed in the year and consequently there is no liability as at December 31, 2013.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Income Access Share arrangements Details of the Shire Income Access Share arrangements are disclosed in Note 23 of the Shire Annual Report.
Share options Details of options and awards granted over the Ordinary Shares of the Company which are outstanding as at December 31, 2013 are provided in the Shire Annual Report in Note 28 together with the total cost of share-based payment compensation in respect of such schemes.
The charge for the period relating to share-based payment plans in respect of Directors of the Company was $4.6 million 2012: $6.5 million, all of which related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Details of options and awards granted to Directors of the Company are contained in the consolidated accounts of the Director remuneration report of the Shire Annual Report on page 64.
Conversion of loan notes As per the information provided in note I, Ordinary Shares have been issued on the conversion of the loan notes which were due to mature in 2014.
33,806,464 shares were issued to the holders of the loan which has increased the issued and fully paid share capital of the Company by $2.8m.
L. Movements in shareholders funds Equity Called up Share component Other Profit and share premium of convertible capital loss Treasury Other capital account bonds reserve account Shares Reserve Total $M $M $M $M $M $M $M $M As at January 1, 2013 55.7 5,941.9 43.2 302.4 3,311.7 106.5 9,548.4 Capital contribution relating to share based payments 72.7 72.7 Credit to equity for share based payment 4.6 4.6 Dividends paid 5.7 5.7 Options exercised 16.1 16.1 Shares issues on conversion of convertible bonds 2.8 1,098.7 1,101.5 Reserve transfer of equity element of convertible debt on redemption of bonds 43.2 43.2 Recognition of liability to repurchase own shares in first close period Note M 140.5 140.5 Repurchase of own shares during close period 57.4 57.4 Derecognition of liability to repurchase own shares 83.1 83.1 Recognition of liability to repurchase own shares in second close period Note M 65.5 65.5 Repurchase of own shares during close period 59.5 59.5 Derecognition of liability to repurchase own shares 6.0 6.0 Recognition of liability to repurchase own shares in third close period Note M 248.4 248.4 Repurchase of own shares during close period 25.3 25.3 Derecognition of liability to repurchase own shares 223.1 223.1 Repurchase of own shares Note M 51.4 51.4 Loss for the year 69.9 69.9 As at December 31, 2013 58.5 7,056.7 418.3 3,240.7 300.1 10,474.1 WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 183 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2013 continued M. Treasury shares The treasury shares reserve represents the cost of shares in the Company purchased in the market and held by the Company for the purpose of returning funds to shareholders.
The number of Ordinary Shares held by the Company as at 31 December 2013 was 9,823,536 with a purchase value of $300.1 million including transaction costs 2012: 3,631,571 with a purchase value of $106.5 million.
The Company instructed independent third parties to purchase the shares of the Company up to a maximum value of $500m.
These contracts could be cancelled at any time other than when the Company was in a financial close or other prohibited period.
As the contracts cannot be cancelled in a close or other prohibited period, the Company is obliged to recognise a liability equivalent to the present value of the maximum number of shares still available to purchase which is debited against total equity.
Accretion of the discount is recorded in the profit and loss during the close or other prohibited period.
Shares purchased in the close period or other prohibited were deducted from the liability and recorded as treasury shares with any remaining liability on leaving the close or other prohibited period is reversed with a credit recognised in shareholder equity.
N. Risk management and financial instruments Financial risk factors The Companys risks are managed on a Group basis.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: credit risk: liquidity risk: and market risk including foreign currency exchange risk, price risk and interest rate risk.
The Groups overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The Groups financial risk management is carried out by a corporate treasury function conducted within a framework of policies and procedures approved annually by the Companys Board of Directors.
The corporate treasury function identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close co-operation with the Groups operating units.
As a matter of policy, the Group does not undertake speculative transactions that would increase currency or interest rate exposure.
Further information in respect of the financial risk management of the Group can be obtained from the Shire Annual Report in the consolidated accounts for the year ending December 31, 2013. Credit risk As at December 31, 2013 the Company had amounts due from Group undertakings and other debtors which in the aggregate totalled $53.2 million.
The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk from these amounts is $53.2 million.
Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities.
The Company finances its activities through debt securities and committed bank facilities, borrowings and the repayment of loans from Group companies and the proceeds of asset or investment disposals and cash generated from private and public offerings of equity.
The Company anticipates that its funding sources will be sufficient to meet its anticipated future administrative expenses, debt principal, dividend obligations and service costs as they become due over the next twelve months.
Maturity analysis of financial liabilities Less than 3 Between 3-6 Between 6-12 Between 1-3 Between 3-5 months months months years years Total At December 31, 2013 $M $M $M $M $M $M i Amounts owed to Group undertakings 620.5 620.5 ii Convertible bonds 620.5 620.5 At December 31, 2012 i Amounts owed to Group undertakings 344.3 344.3 ii Convertible bonds 4.4 1,100.0 1,104.4 344.3 4.4 1,100.0 1,448.7 i The amounts due to Group undertakings are primarily unsecured, US dollar denominated, repayable on demand and bear interest at floating rates ofinterest.
ii As per note I Shires $1,100 million 2.75% convertible bonds were converted into shares during the year.
184 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
COM Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Market risk Foreign currency exchange risk As at December 31, 2013 substantially all of the Companys financial assets and financial liabilities were denominated in its functional currency, the US dollar.
The Company is not exposed to any significant foreign exchange currency risk.
Price risk As at December 31, 2013 the Company held no investments other than fixed asset investments in subsidiary undertakings which are held at historic cost less any provision for impairment.
The Company is not exposed to any price risk.
Interest rate risk As at December 31, 2013 the Company held no cash or cash equivalents or had any trade debtors or creditors which were interest bearing.
The Company had short-term borrowings of $620.5 million from another Group company, which are repayable on demand and bear interest at floating rates.
Interest on these borrowings in the period amounted to $6.9 million and the Directors do not perceive that servicing this debt poses any significant risk to the Company given its size in relation to the Companys net assets.
Market risk sensitivity analysis FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires a market risk sensitivity analysis illustrating the fair value of the Companys financial instruments and the impact on the Companys profit and loss account and shareholders equity of reasonably possible changes in selected market risks.
The Company has no financial assets or liabilities that expose it to market risk, other than amounts owed to Group undertakings of $620.5 million.
The Directors do not believe that a 1% movement in interest rates will have a material impact on the Companys profit and loss account or shareholders equity.
Financial instruments The table below sets out the Companys accounting classification of each class of financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values at December 31, 2013.
Available Loans and Amortized Carrying Designated at for sale receivables cost amount Fair value At December 31, 2013 fair value $M $M $M $M $M i Amounts due from Group undertakings 42.2 42.2 42.2 i Other debtors 11.0 11.0 11.0 i Amounts owed to Group undertakings 620.5 620.5 620.5 ii Convertible bonds 53.2 620.5 567.3 567.3 Available Loans and Carrying Designated at for sale receivables Amortized cost amount Fair value At December 31, 2013 fair value $M $M $M $M $M i Amounts due from Group undertakings 29.0 29.0 29.0 i Other debtors 0.1 0.1 0.1 i Amounts owed to Group undertakings 344.3 344.3 344.3 ii Convertible bonds 1,100.0 1,100.0 1,228.0 29.1 1,444.3 1,415.2 1,543.2 i The carrying amount of amounts due to and from Group undertakings and other debtors is at approximate fair value because of the short term maturity of the amounts.
ii The fair value of the Companys convertible bonds is based on the quoted market price of the bonds at the balance sheet date as such the fair value quoted above represents the composite fair value for both the liability and equity components of the convertible bonds, whereas the carrying amount represents only the liability component.
Capital risk management The capital structure of the Company consists of debt, which includes borrowings disclosed in Note I, issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Note L. The Company manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern and to ensure the Group has sufficient capital available to meet future funding requirements.
The Group had net cash, as determined under US GAAP, of $2,230.5 million at December 31, 2013 2012 net cash: $372.9 million, which is low relative to its market capitalization, and positions the Group to take advantage of any opportunities that might arise to develop the business.
Details of funding requirements are explained in the Liquidity and capital resources section of the Review of our business in the Shire Annual Report in the consolidated accounts for the year ending December 31, 2013.
The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
COM ANNUAL REPORT 2013 SHIRE PLC 185 Notes to the financial statements For the year ended December 31, 2013 continued O.
Commitments Capital commitments There are no significant capital commitments relating to the Company.
Guarantees The Company has guaranteed external lease commitments, overdrafts, trade facility lines and other banking obligations of various subsidiaries, amounting to $130.7 million 2012: $126.4 million.
Revolving credit facilities agreement On November 23, 2010 the Company entered into the RCF.
The RCF is for an aggregate amount of $1,200 million and canceled the Companys then existing committed revolving credit facility.
The RCF, which includes a $250 million swingline facility, may be used for general corporate purposes and matures on November 23, 2015.
The interest rate on each loan drawn under the RCF for each interest period is the percentage rate per annum which is the aggregate of the applicable margin ranging from 0.90 to 2.25 per cent per annum and LIBOR for the applicable currency and interest period.
Shire also pays a commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 35 per cent per annum of the applicable margin.
Under the RCF it is required that i Shires ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA as defined within the RCF agreement does not exceed 3.5 to 1 for either the 12 month period ending December 31 or June 30 unless Shire has exercised its option which is subject to certain conditions to increase it to 4.0 to 1 for two consecutive testing dates: ii the ratio of EBITDA to Net Interest as defined in the RCF agreement must not be less than 4.0 to 1, for either the 12 month period ending December 31 or June 30, and iii additional limitations on the creation of liens, disposal of assets, incurrence of indebtedness, making of loans, giving of guarantees and granting security over assets.
These financial and operating covenants have not had, and are not expected to have, an effect on the Companys financial position and liquidity.
On entering into the RCF in November 2010 the Company paid arrangement costs of $8.0 million, which have been recorded as deferred charges, with amortization of these costs to the Companys income statement over the contractual term of the RCF.
The availability of loans under the new RCF is subject to customary conditions.
Fees for the arrangement of the RCF and ongoing commitment fees are borne by another Group company.
Term Loan Agreement See the Directors report for details of the Term Loan Agreement entered into on November 11, 2013.
P. Subsequent events On January 17, 2014, Shire announced that it had sold its DERMAGRAFT assets to Organogenesis comprising the key operating assets relating to the development, manufacture and sale of the DERMAGRAFT product.
These assets include intellectual property relating to DERMAGRAFT including patents, trademarks and know-how: regulatory filings and registrations relating to DERMAGRAFT: certain manufacturing plant, equipment and materials: DERMAGRAFT product inventory and accounts receivable.
186 SHIRE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 WWW.
