F inancial statements | Significant accounting policies 87 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 14 SEPTEMBER 2013 Associated British Foods plc the The accounting policies set out below on an equity-accounted basis from the Company is a company domiciled in have been applied to all periods presented, point at which joint control or significant the United Kingdom.
The consolidated except where detailed otherwise.
influence respectively commences, to financial statements of the Company for the date that it ceases.
Details of new accounting standards the 52 weeks ended 14 September 2013 which came into force in the year are Subsidiaries are entities controlled by comprise those of the Company and its set out at the end of this note.
Control exists when the subsidiaries together referred to as the them required restatement of primary Company has the power, directly or group and the groups interest in statements in comparative periods other indirectly, to govern the financial and associates and joint ventures.
than for presentational items, nor had operating policies of an entity so as The financial statements were any significant impact on the groups to obtain benefits from its activities.
authorised for issue by the directors on consolidated results or financialposition.
Changes in the groups ownership 5 November 2013.
The consolidated financial statements of interest in a subsidiary that do not result The consolidated financial statements the group are prepared to the Saturday in a loss of control are accounted for have been prepared and approved by the nearest to 15 September.
directors in accordance with International these financial statements have been Joint ventures are those entities over Financial Reporting Standards as adopted prepared for the 52weeks ended whose activities the group has joint control, by the EU AdoptedIFRS.
To avoid delay in typically established by contractual the preparation of the consolidated The Company has elected to prepare its agreement and requiring the venturers financial statements, the results of parent company financial statements unanimous consent for strategic financial certain subsidiaries, joint ventures and under UK Generally Accepted Accounting and operating decisions.
associates are included up to 31August Practice.
These are presented on pages 2013.
The results of Illovo are included Associates are those entities in which 127 to 131. for the period to 30September 2013 in the group has significant influence, but Basis of preparation line with Illovos local reporting date.
not control, over the financial and The going concern basis has been Adjustments are made as appropriate operating policies.
The for significant transactions or events Where the groups share of losses consolidated financial statements are occurring between 31August and exceed its interest in a joint venture or presented in sterling, rounded to the 30September.
associate, the carrying amount is reduced nearest million.
They are prepared on the The groups business activities, together to zero and recognition of further losses historical cost basis except that biological with the factors likely to affect its future is discontinued except to the extent that assets and certain financial instruments development, performance and position the group has incurred legal or constructive are stated at fair value.
Assets classified are set out in the Operating review on obligations or made payments on behalf as held for sale are stated at the lower of pages 20 to 35.
The financial position of an investee.
carrying amount and fair value less costs of the group, its cash flows, liquidity tosell.
Business combinations position and borrowing facilities are On the acquisition of a business, fair The preparation of financial statements described in the Financial review on values are attributed to the identifiable under Adopted IFRS requires pages 36 to 39.
In addition, the Principal assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities management to make judgements, risks and uncertainties on pages 56 to 61 acquired, reflecting conditions at the date estimates and assumptions about the and note 24 on pages 113 to 123 provide of acquisition.
Adjustments to fair values reported amounts of assets and liabilities, details of the groups policy on managing include those made to bring accounting income and expenses and the disclosure its financial and commodity risks.
policies into line with those of the group.
of contingent assets and liabilities.
The The group has considerable financial Provisional fair values are finalised within estimates and associated assumptions resources, good access to debt markets, 12 months of the business combination are based on experience.
Actual results a diverse range of businesses and a wide date and where significant are adjusted may differ from these estimates.
It is therefore well by restatement of the comparative period Judgements made by management in placed to manage business risks in which the acquisition occurred.
the application of Adopted IFRS that successfully.
Non-controlling interests are measured have a significant effect on the financial at the proportionate share of the net statements, and estimates with a Basis of consolidation identifiable assets acquired.
significant risk of material adjustment The consolidated financial statements next year, are discussed in Accounting include the results of the Company and For business combinations executed estimates and judgements detailed on all of its subsidiaries from the date that before 3 September 2004, goodwill page 92. control commences to the date that is included on the basis of its deemed control ceases.
The consolidated cost, represented by the net book value The estimates and underlying financial statements also include the recorded under previous GAAP.
assumptions are reviewed on a regular groups share of the after-tax results, basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates For business combinations executed in other comprehensive income and net are recognised from the period in which periods ending on or before 12September assets of its joint ventures and associates the estimates arerevised.
2009, goodwill arising on a business Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 F inancial statements | Significant accounting policies 88 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 14 SEPTEMBER 2013 combination was the excess of the Revenue from sale of goods is generally in foreign currencies are translated at the carrying amount of any existing equity recognised on dispatch or delivery to rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
interest plus the fair value of consideration customers, dependent on shipping Any resulting differences are taken to the payable for the additional stake over the terms.
Discounts are provided for as a income statement.
fair value of the share of net identifiable reduction to revenue at the time a sale On consolidation, assets and liabilities of assets and liabilities acquired including is recorded, based on managements foreign operations that are denominated separately identified intangible assets, best estimate of the amount required in foreign currencies are translated into net of non-controlling interests.
Total to meet claims by customers.
sterling at the rate of exchange at the consideration included acquisition costs.
Borrowing costs balance sheet date.
Income and expense Contingent consideration was measured Borrowing costs are accounted for using items are translated into sterling at at fair value at the date of the business the effective interest method.
For qualifying weighted average rates of exchange.
Subsequent changes to items of property, plant and equipment contingent consideration other than Differences arising from the retranslation where the commencement date for settlements are accounted for as of opening net assets of group companies, capitalisation was on or after 13September adjustments togoodwill.
together with differences arising from the 2009, the group capitalises borrowing restatement of the net results of group For business combinations executed costs directly attributable to the acquisition, companies from average rates to rates at on or after 13 September 2009, existing construction or production of those the balance sheet date, are taken to the equity interests in the acquiree are qualifying assets as part of their cost.
remeasured to fair value as at the date The group previously expensed all of the business combination, with any borrowing costs as incurred.
Interest Pensions and other postresulting gain or loss taken to the capitalised is taxed under current or employment benefits incomestatement.
The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
In addition the Goodwill arising on a business Exceptional items group has defined contribution plans combination is the excess of the Exceptional items are defined as items and other unfunded post-employment remeasured carrying amount of any of income and expenditure which are liabilities.
For defined benefit plans, the existing equity interest plus the fair value material and unusual in nature and which amount charged in the income statement of consideration payable for the additional are considered to be of such significance is the cost of benefits accruing to stake over the fair value of the share of that they require separate disclosure on employees over the year, plus any benefit net identifiable assets and liabilities the face of the income statement in improvements granted tomembers by acquired including separately identified accordance with IAS 1.
They are the group during the year.
It also includes intangible assets, net of non-controlling discussed further in the Accounting the groups expected return on pension interests.
Total consideration does not estimates and judgements detailed plan assets offset by a charge equalto include acquisition costs, which are on page 92. the expected interest on plan liabilities.
Adjusted profit and earnings For each plan, the difference between Contingent consideration is measured measures market value of assets and present value at fair value at the date of the business Adjusted operating profit is stated before of liabilities is disclosed as an asset or combination, classified as a liability or amortisation of non-operating intangibles, liability in the balancesheet.
equity usually as a liability, and profits less losses on disposal of Any related deferred tax to the extent subsequently accounted for in line with non-current assets and exceptional items.
recoverable is disclosed separately in that classification.
Changes in contingent Adjusted profit before tax is stated before the balance sheet.
Actuarial gains or consideration classified as a liability amortisation of non-operating intangibles, losses are recognised immediately in resulting other than from the finalisation profits less losses on disposal of other comprehensive income.
Surpluses of provisional fair values are accounted non-current assets, profits less losses are recognised only to the extent that for in the income statement.
on sale and closure of businesses and they are recoverable.
Both are shown on Revenue irrecoverable surpluses are recognised the face of the income statement.
Revenue represents the invoiced value of immediately as an actuarial gain or loss sales made to customers after deduction Adjusted earnings per share is shown in in other comprehensive income.
of discounts and sales taxes.
Discounts the notes and is stated before amortisation Contributions payable by the group in include sales rebates, price discounts, of non-operating intangibles, profits less respect of defined contribution plans are customer incentives, certain promotional losses on disposal of non-current assets, charged to operating profit as incurred.
Revenue profits less losses on sale and closure of Other unfunded post-employment does not include sales between group businesses and exceptional items liabilities are accounted for in the same companies.
Revenue is recognised when together with the related tax effect.
way as defined benefit pension plans.
the risks and rewards of the underlying Foreign currencies products have been substantially Share-based payments In individual companies, transactions transferred to the customer and when The fair value of share awards at grant date in foreign currencies are recorded at the it can be reliably measured.
is recognised as an employee expense rate of exchange at the date of the with a corresponding increase in equity, transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 F inancial statements | Significant accounting policies 89 spread over the period during which non-current receivables comprise and losses previously recognised in the the employees become unconditionally available-for-sale investments measured hedging reserve are recognised in the entitled to the shares.
The amount at market prices where available.
Where income statement at the same time as recognised is adjusted to reflect expected quoted market prices in an active market the hedged transaction.
and actual levels of vesting except where are not available, and where fair value Hedge accounting is discontinued when the failure to vest is as a result of not cannot be reliably measured, unquoted the hedging instrument expires or is sold, meeting a marketcondition.
equity instruments are measured at cost terminated, exercised, or no longer less impairment.
Income tax qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that Income tax on profit or loss for the period Cash and cash equivalents time, any cumulative gain or loss on comprises current and deferred tax.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise the hedging instrument recognised in Income tax is recognised in the income bank and cash balances, call deposits the hedging reserve is retained in the statement except to the extent that it and short-term investments with original hedging reserve until the forecast relates to items taken directly to other maturities of three months or less.
Gains or losses comprehensive income.
overdrafts that are repayable on demand on hedging instruments relating to are included as a component of cash and an underlying exposure that no longer Current tax is the tax expected to be cash equivalents for the purposes of the exists are taken to the incomestatement.
payable on taxable income for the year, cash flow statement.
using tax rates enacted or substantively Hedges of the groups net investment in enacted during the period, together with Derivatives foreign operations principally comprise any adjustment to tax payable in respect Derivatives are used to manage the borrowings in the currency of the of previous years.
groups economic exposure to financial investments netassets.
The principal Deferred tax is provided using the The group economically hedges foreign instruments used are foreign exchange balance sheet liability method, providing currency exposure on recognised and commodity contracts, futures, swaps for temporary differences between the monetary assets and liabilities but does or options the hedging instrument.
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities not normally seek hedge accounting The group does not use derivatives for for financial reporting purposes and the under IAS 39.
Any derivatives that the speculative purposes.
amounts used for taxation purposes.
The group holds to hedge this exposure are following temporary differences are not Derivatives are recognised in the classified as held for trading within provided for: initial recognition of balance sheet, at fair value, based on derivative assets and liabilities.
Changes goodwill: initial recognition of assets or market prices or rates, or calculated in the fair value of such derivatives and liabilities affecting neither accounting nor using either discounted cash flow or the foreign exchange gains and losses taxable profit other than those acquired in option pricing models.
arising on the related monetary items a business combination: and differences are recognised within operating profit.
Changes in the value of derivatives are relating to investments in subsidiaries to recognised in the income statement Intangible assets other than the extent that they will probably not unless they qualify for hedge accounting, goodwill reverse in the foreseeable future.
The when recognition of any change in fair Non-operating intangible assets are amount of deferred tax provided is based value depends on the nature of the item intangible assets that arise on business on the expected manner of realisation being hedged.
combinations and typically include or settlement of the carrying amount technology, brands, customer of assets and liabilities, using tax rates The purpose of hedge accounting is relationships and grower agreements.
enacted or substantively enacted at the to mitigate the impact on the groups Operating intangible assets are acquired balance sheet date.
income statement of changes in foreign in the ordinary course of business and exchange or interest rates and commodity A deferred tax asset is recognised only typically include computer software, land prices, by matching the impact of the to the extent that it is probable that future use rights and emissions trading licences.
hedged risk and the hedging instrument taxable profits will be available against in the income statement.
Intangible assets other than goodwill which the asset can be utilised.
are stated at cost less accumulated Changes in the value of derivatives Additional income taxes that arise from amortisation and impairment charges.
used as hedges of future cash flows are the distribution of dividends are recognised through other comprehensive Amortisation is charged to the income recognised at the same time as the income in the hedging reserve, with statement on a straight-line basis over liability to pay the related dividend.
any ineffective portion recognised the estimated useful lives of intangible Financial assets and liabilities immediately within operating profit in assets from the date they are available Financial assets and financial liabilities, the income statement.
The estimated useful lives are except for other non-current investments generally deemed to be no longer than: When the future cash flow results in the and derivatives, are measured initially recognition of a non-financial asset or Technology and brands up to 15 years atfair value, plus directly attributable liability, the gains and losses previously Customer relationships up to 5 years transaction costs, and thereafter at recognised in the hedging reserve are Grower agreements up to 10 years amortised cost.
Other non-current included in the initial measurement of investments classified under other that asset or liability.
Otherwise, gains Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 F inancial statements | Significant accounting policies 90 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 14 SEPTEMBER 2013 Goodwill inflows, the recoverable amount is expense charged to the income Goodwill is defined under Business determined for the CGU to which the statement.
Other leases where the group combinations on pages 87 and88.
is a lessee are treated as operating Certain commercial assets associated leases.
Payments made under operating Reversals of impairment with the acquisition of a business are leases are recognised in the income An impairment charge in respect of not capable of being recognised in the statement on a straight-line basis over goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
In such the term of the lease, as is the benefit For other assets, an impairment charge circumstances, goodwill is recognised, of lease incentives.
is reversed if there has been a change which may include, but is not necessarily in the estimates used to determine the Where the group is a lessor under an limited to, workforce assets and the recoverable amount, but only to the operating lease, the asset is capitalised benefits of expected future synergies.
extent that the new carrying amount within property, plant and equipment and Goodwill is not amortised but is subject does not exceed the carrying amount depreciated over its useful economic life.
to an annual impairment review.
that would have been determined, net Payments received under operating of depreciation or amortisation, if no leases are recognised in the income Research and development impairment charge had been recognised.
statement on a straight-line basis over Research expenditure is expensed as the term of the lease.
Development expenditure is Property, plant and equipment capitalised if the product or process is Items of property, plant and equipment Biological assets technically and commercially feasible are stated at cost less accumulated Biological assets are measured at fair but is otherwise expensed as incurred.
Cane roots and Capitalised development expenditure growing cane are stated at fair value on Depreciation is charged to the income is stated at cost less accumulated the following bases: statement on a straight-line basis over amortisation and impairment charges.
the estimated useful lives of items of Cane roots escalated average cost, Impairment property, plant and equipment sufficient using appropriate inflation-related indices, The carrying amounts of the groups to reduce them to estimated residual of each year of planting adjusted for intangible assets and property, plant and value.
Estimated remaining expected life, currently ten equipment are reviewed at each balance useful lives are generally deemed to be years in South Africa, seven years in sheet date to determine whether there is no longer than: Zambia and eight yearselsewhere.
If any such Freehold buildings 66 years Growing cane estimated sucrose indication exists, the assets recoverable Plant and equipment, fixtures content valued at estimated sucrose amount is estimated.
For goodwill and and fittings price for the following season, less intangibles without a finite life, the sugar factories, yeast plants estimated costs for harvesting and recoverable amount is estimated at and mills 20 years transport.
other operations 12 years When harvested, growing cane is Vehicles 10 years An impairment charge is recognised transferred to inventory at fair value in the income statement whenever Leases less costs to sell.
the carrying amount of an asset or its A lease is an agreement whereby the cash-generating unit CGU exceeds Inventories lessor conveys to the lessee, in return for its recoverable amount.
Inventories are stated at the lower of a payment or a series of payments, the cost and net realisable value.
Cost right to use a specific asset for an agreed Impairment charges recognised in respect includes raw materials, direct labour and period of time.
of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the expenses and an appropriate proportion carrying amount of any goodwill allocated Where the group is a lessee and has of production and other overheads, to that CGU and then to reduce the substantially all the risks and rewards of calculated on a first-in first-out basis.
carrying amount of the other assets ownership of an asset, the arrangement in the unit on a pro ratabasis.
Inventories for Primark are valued at is considered a finance lease.
Finance the lower of cost and net realisable value leases are recognised as assets of the Calculation of recoverable amount using the retail method, calculated on group within property, plant and The recoverable amount of assets is the the basis of selling price less appropriate equipment at the inception of the lease greater of their fair value less costs to sell trading margin.
All Primark inventories at the lower of fair value and the present and their value in use.
In assessing value are finished goods.
value of the minimum lease payments.
in use, the estimated future cash flows Depreciation on leased assets is charged are discounted to their present value New accounting policies to the income statement on the same using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects The group has adopted the following new basis as owned assets.
Payments made current market assessments of the time and amended IFRSs and IFRIC under finance leases are apportioned value of money and the risks specific to interpretations with no material impact between capital repayments and interest the asset.
For an asset that does not all effective from 16 September 2012 : generate largely independent cash Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 F inancial statements | Significant accounting policies 91 Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation Amendments to IFRS 7 Financial of Financial Statements, which Instruments: Disclosures effective amend only the presentation of other 2014 and 2016 financial years comprehensive income and the partially endorsed by the EU : statement of changes in equity: and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Amendments to IAS 12 Income Classification and Measurement Taxes.
effective 2016 financial year, which amends the classification and The group will implement IAS 19 Employee measurement for financial assets and Benefits Revised in 2014.
This makes liabilities not yet endorsed by the EU : changes to measurement and disclosure requirements for defined benefit IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial post-employment arrangements.
The Statements effective 2015 first principal measurement change is financialyear: that the expected return on plan assets IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective and the interest charge on scheme 2015 financial year: liabilities will be replaced by a net interest expense or income calculated by applying IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in the liability discount rate to the net Other Entities effective 2015 pension asset or liability.
The second financialyear: principal change is that scheme IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement administration costs will now be effective 2014 financial year: expensed as incurred and the reserve for scheme expenses included within IAS 28 Investments in Associates scheme liabilities will be removed.
and Joint Ventures effective 2015 financial year: The new standard applies for the first time in the 2014 financial year, but with Amendments to IAS 32 Financial retrospective effect from the 2012 Instruments: Presentation effective balance sheet date.
If applied in 2013, the 2014 and 2015 financial year: and impact would have been an increase of Amendments to IAS 34 Interim 4m in service cost and an increase of Financial Reporting effective 2014 3m in net pension finance costs.
actuarial gains in 2013 of 24m would have been replaced with net actuarial gains of 32m.
The 95m net pension liability in the 2012 balance sheet is replaced by a net liability of 67m, and the 44m net pension liability in the 2013 balance sheet is replaced by a net liability of 15m.
The group is also assessing the impact of the following revised standards and interpretations or amendments that are not yet effective.
Where already endorsed by the EU, these changes will be adopted on the effective dates noted.
Where not yet endorsed by the EU, the adoption date is less certain.
These revised standards are not currently expected to have a material impact on the groups reported profit, earnings per share, net assets or disclosures all effective from 15 September 2013 unless otherwise stated : Certain elements of Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011: Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013
