F inancial statements | Accounting estimates and judgements 92 ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 14 SEPTEMBER 2013 In applying the accounting policies and other demographic assumptions and All exceptional items are included in the detailed on pages 87 to 91, management to the level of contributions.
Further appropriate income statement line item has made estimates in a number of areas details are included in note12.
In addition, separate and the actual outcome may differ from disclosure is made of all exceptional Provisions those calculated.
Key sources of items, with additional explanation in Provisions are measured at the directors estimation uncertainty at the balance thenotes.
best estimate of the expenditure required sheet date with a significant risk of to settle the obligation at the balance Taxation material adjustment to the carrying value sheet date, taking into account a range The level of current and deferred tax of assets and liabilities within the next of possible outcomes.
recognised is dependent on subjective financial yearare set out below.
judgements as to the outcome of Biological assets Forecasts and discount rates decisions by tax authorities in various Cane roots valuation requires an The carrying values of a number of items jurisdictions around the world.
estimation by management of the on the balance sheet are dependent on average number of ratoons expected Fair values on acquisition estimates of future cash flows arising from the crop.
The carrying value of cane Items of property, plant and equipment from the groups operations which, in roots is disclosed in note 10. often have long operating lives, hence some circumstances, are discounted determination of fair values can require to arrive at a net present value.
For the growing cane valuation, estimated a significant degree of judgement.
sucrose content requires management to Assessment for impairment involves Acquisitions often result in significant assess expected cane and sucrose yields comparing the book value of an asset intangible benefits for the group, some of for the following season considering with its recoverable amount being the which qualify for recognition as intangible weather conditions and harvesting higher of value in use and fair value less assets.
Other such benefits do not programmes: estimated sucrose price costs to sell.
Value in use is determined meet the recognition requirements of requires management to assess into with reference to projected future cash accounting standards and therefore form which markets the forthcoming crop will flows discounted at an appropriate rate.
Significant judgement is be sold and assess domestic and export Both the cash flows and the discount required in the assessment and valuation prices as well as related foreign currency rate involve a significant degree of of these intangible assets, often with exchange rates.
The carrying value of estimation uncertainty.
reference to internal data and models.
growing cane is disclosed in note 10.
Professional valuers are engaged where The realisation of deferred tax assets is Cash flow hedge accounting it is deemed appropriate to do so.
Fair dependent on the generation of sufficient In order to achieve and maintain cash values on major acquisitions are future taxable profits.
The group flow hedge accounting, the group has disclosed in note 21. recognises deferred tax assets to the to determine, at inception and on an extent that it is probable that sufficient ongoing basis, whether a forecast taxable profits will be available in the transaction is highly probable and future.
Deferred tax assets are reduced whether the hedge is effective.
This to the extent that it is no longer probable requires both subjective and objective that the related tax benefit will measures of determination.
Exceptional items Post-retirement benefits The directors consider that items of The groups defined benefit pension income or expense which are material by schemes and similar arrangements are virtue of their nature and amount should assessed annually in accordance with be disclosed separately if the financial IAS19.
The accounting valuation, which statements are to present fairly the has been assessed using assumptions financial position and financial determined with independent actuarial performance of the group.
The advice, resulted in a net liability of 44m directors label these items collectively being recognised as at 14September as exceptional items.
The size of this net liability is which transactions are to be considered sensitive to the market value of the exceptional in nature is often a subjective assets held by the schemes, to the matter.
However, circumstances that discount rate used in assessing actuarial the directors believe would give rise to liabilities, to the actuarial assumptions exceptional items for separate disclosure which include price inflation, rates of might include major business pension and salary increases, mortality restructurings, impairments and reversals of impairments.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013
