Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS 129 17 Provisions and contingencies ACCOUNTING POLICY In the normal course of business the Group is involved in various legal disputes.
Provision is made for loss contingencies when it is deemed probable that an adverse outcome will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
Where the Group is the plaintiff in pursuing claims against third parties legal and associated expenses are charged to the income statement as incurred.
The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a significant degree of estimation.
In making its estimates management takes into account the advice of internal and external legal counsel.
Provisions are reviewed regularly and amounts updated where necessary to reflect developments in the disputes.
The ultimate liability may differ from the amount provided depending on the outcome of court proceedings or settlement negotiations or as new facts emerge.
A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
For the purpose of calculating any onerous lease provision, the Group has taken the discounted future lease payments, net of expected rental income.
Before a provision is established, the Group recognises any impairment loss on the assets associated with that contract.
A provision for rationalisation is recognised when the Group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring either has commenced or has been announced publicly.
Future operating losses are not provided for.
17.1 Provisions Rationalisation Legal and other Total provisions provisions $ million $ million $ million At 1 January 2012 26 97 123 Charge to income statement 29 21 50 Provision arising on acquisition 13 13 Utilised 30 34 64 At 31 December 2012 25 97 122 Charge to income statement 15 22 37 Utilised 22 12 34 At 31 December 2013 18 107 125 Provisions due within one year 18 42 60 Provisions due after one year 65 65 At 31 December 2013 18 107 125 Provisions due within one year 25 34 59 Provisions due after one year 63 63 At 31 December 2012 25 97 122 The principal provisions within rationalisation provisions relate to the rationalisation of operational sites mainly severance and legal costs arising from the legacy earnings improvement programme and people costs associated with the structural and process changes announced in August 2011.
Included within the legal and other provisions are: $16m 2012 $17m relating to the declination of insurance coverage for macrotextured knee revisions see Note 17.2 A provision of $15m 2012 $13m relating to the acquisition and integration of Healthpoint Biotherapeutics see Note 21.4 The remaining balance largely represents provisions for various patent disputes and other litigation.
All provisions are expected to be substantially utilised within three years of 31 December 2013 and none are treated as financial instruments.
Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 130 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS Notes to the Group accounts continued 17 Provisions and contingencies continued 17.2 Contingencies The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal proceedings, some of which include claims for substantial damages.
The outcome of these proceedings cannot readily be foreseen, but management believes none of them are likely to result in a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Group.
The Group provides for outcomes that are deemed to be probable and can be reliably estimated.
There is no assurance that losses will not exceed provisions or will not have a significant impact on the Groups results of operations in the period in which they are realised.
In August 2003, the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
A number of related claims have been filed, most of which have been settled.
The aggregate cost at 31 December 2013 related to this matter is approximately $215m.
The Group has sought recovery from its primary and excess insurers for costs of resolving the claims.
The primary insurance carrier has paid $60m in full settlement of its policy liability.
However, the excess carriers have denied coverage, citing defences relating to the wording of the insurance policies and other matters.
In December 2004, the Group brought suit against them in the US district court for the Western District of Tennessee.
An additional $22m was received during 2007 from a successful settlement with a third party.
A charge of $154m was recorded in 2004 for anticipated expenses in connection with macrotexture claims.
Most of that amount has since been applied to settlements of such claims.
Management believes that the $16m 2012 $17m provision remaining is adequate to cover remaining claims.
Given the uncertainty inherent in such matters, there can be no assurance on this point.
17.3 Legal proceedings Product liability claims The Group faces other claims from time to time for alleged defects in its products and has on occasion recalled or withdrawn products from the market.
Such claims are endemic to the orthopaedic device industry.
The Group maintains product liability insurance subject to limits and deductibles that management believes are reasonable.
All policies contain exclusions and limitations, however, and there can be no assurance that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all claims.
In recent years, there has been heightened concern about possible adverse effects of hip implant products with metal-on-metal bearing surfaces, and the Group has incurred and will continue to incur expenses to defend claims in this area.
As of February 2014 approximately 650 such claims had been notified to the Group around the world, of which 310 had given rise to pending legal proceedings.
Most of the pending legal proceedings are in the United States.
Most claims relate to the Groups Birmingham Hip Resurfacing BHR product and the Birmingham Hip Modular Head BHMH and R3 Metal Liner R3ML components.
In 2012, the Group restricted instructions for use of the BHMH and ceased offering the R3ML.
In 2013, the Groups US subsidiary agreed with lawyers representing metal-on-metal claimants to consolidate pre-trial proceedings such as discovery in their lawsuits in a state court in Memphis, Tennessee, and those lawsuits account for most of the US proceedings.
The Group takes care to monitor the clinical evidence relating to its metal hip implant products and ensure that its product offerings and training are designed to serve patients interests.
Business practice investigations Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to regulation and review by various government authorities.
From time to time authorities undertake investigations of the Groups activities to verify compliance.
In September 2007, the SEC notified the Group that it was conducting an informal investigation of companies in the medical devices industry, including the Group, regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA in connection with the sale of products in certain countries outside of the US.
The US Department of Justice DOJ subsequently joined the SECs request.
On 6 February 2012, Smith & Nephew announced that it had reached settlement with the SEC and DOJ in connection with this matter.
Smith & Nephew paid slightly less than $23m in fines and profit disgorgement and committed to maintain an enhanced compliance programme and appoint an independent monitor for at least 18 months to review and report on its compliance programme.
The monitors final report was filed in late 2013, and the independent monitorship has now been terminated.
The settlement agreements impose detailed reporting, compliance and other requirements on Smith & Nephew for a three-year term.
Failure to comply with these requirements, or any other violation of law, could have severe consequences for the Group.
Intellectual property disputes The Group is engaged, as both plaintiff and defendant, in litigation with various competitors and others over claims of patent infringement and other intellectual property matters.
These disputes are being heard in courts in the US and other jurisdictions and also before agencies that examine patents.
Outcomes are rarely certain and costs are often significant.
The Group has won a jury verdict in the US district court for Oregon against Arthrex Inc. for infringement of the Groups patents relating to suture anchors.
The verdict was initially overturned by the district court but then in January 2013 reinstated on appeal.
Arthrex continues to appeal the amount of the damages award.
Other matters In April 2009, the Group was served with a subpoena by the US Department of Justice in Massachusetts requiring the production of documents from 1995 to 2009 associated with the marketing and sale of the Groups EXOGEN bone growth stimulator.
Similar subpoenas have been served on a number of competitors in the bone growth stimulator market.
Around the same time a qui tam or whistle-blower complaint concerning the industrys sales and marketing of those products, originally filed in 2005 against the primary manufacturers of bone growth stimulation products including Smith & Nephew, was unsealed in federal court in Boston, Massachusetts.
A motion to dismiss that complaint was denied in December 2010.
