Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS 101 Notes to the Group accounts IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other 1 Basis of preparation Entities and IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, along with Smith & Nephew plc the Company is a public limited company consequential amendments to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements incorporated in England and Wales.
In these accounts, the Group and IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures, and means the Company and all its subsidiaries.
The principal activities amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures on of the Group are to develop, manufacture, market and sell medical Offsetting Financial Assets and Liabilities.
devices in the sectors of Advanced Surgical Devices and Advanced A number of new standards, amendments to standards and Wound Management.
interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after As required by the European Unions IAS Regulation and the 1 January 2013, and have not been applied in preparing these Companies Act 2006, the Group has prepared its accounts in consolidated accounts.
None of these is expected to have a accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS significant effect on the consolidated accounts of the Group.
as adopted by the European Union EU effective as at 31 December 2013.
The Group has also prepared its accounts in accordance with Consolidation IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective as at 31 December 2013.
IFRS as adopted by the The Group accounts include the accounts of Smith & Nephew plc EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB.
and its subsidiaries for the periods during which they were members However, the differences have no impact for the periods presented.
The preparation of accounts in conformity with IFRS requires Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls management to use estimates and assumptions that affect the an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting consolidated in the Group accounts from the date that the Group period.
The accounting policies requiring management to use obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that significant estimates and assumptions are: inventories, impairment, such control ceases.
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any retirement benefits, contingencies and provisions.
These are unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group discussed under Critical accounting policies on page 90.
Although transactions, are eliminated on consolidation.
All subsidiaries have these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of year ends which are co-terminus with the Groups.
current events and actions, actual results ultimately may differ from When the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the those estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are assets and liabilities of the subsidiary and any related components of reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to estimates are equity.
Any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
retained interest in the former subsidiary is measured at fair value.
The Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The Foreign currencies Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has Functional and presentation currency adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the The Group accounts are presented in US Dollars, which is the foreseeable future.
From 1 January 2013, the Group adopted the revised IAS 19 Foreign currency transactions Employee Benefits standard, which was endorsed by the EU in Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the June 2012.
The previous method of including the expected income respective functional currencies of Group companies at exchange from the plan assets at an estimated asset return is replaced by rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities applying the discount rate used to calculate the net retirement denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional benefit obligation.
The change in accounting policy has been currency at the exchange rate at the reporting date.
Non-monetary applied retrospectively but does not impact the net retirement items are not retranslated.
benefit obligation or retained earnings as at the beginning or during the years ended 31 December 2011 or 2012.
The income statement Foreign operations and statement of comprehensive income for the years ended Balance sheet items of foreign operations, including goodwill and 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2013 have been adjusted for fair value adjustments arising on acquisition are translated into US the change in accounting policy.
These adjustments have resulted Dollars on consolidation at the exchange rates at the reporting date.
in an increase of $8m in other finance costs and an increase of $8m Income statement items and the cash flows of foreign operations in actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligations recorded within are translated at average rates as an approximation to actual other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2012 transaction rates, with actual transaction rates used for large and an increase of $7m in other finance costs and an increase of one-off transactions.
$7m in actuarial gains on retirement benefit obligations recorded Foreign currency differences are recognised in Other comprehensive within other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December income and accumulated in Other reserves within equity.
Due to the change in other finance costs, basic and diluted include: exchange differences on the translation at closing rates of earnings per share for the year ended 31 December 2012 both exchange of non-US Dollar opening net assets: the differences decreased by 0.9 and for the year ended 31 December 2011 both arising between the translation of profits into US Dollars at actual or decreased by 0.8. average, as an approximation and closing exchange rates: to the The Group has also adopted the amendments to IAS 1 Presentation extent that the hedging relationship is effective, the difference on of Items of Other Comprehensive Income, resulting in a change to the translation of foreign currency borrowings or swaps that are used to presentation of items within other comprehensive income.
finance or hedge the Groups net investments in foreign operations: and the movement in the fair value of forward foreign exchange In addition, effective 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted the contracts used to hedge forecast foreign exchange cash flows.
following new IFRS standards and amendments to standards, none of which had a material impact on the Groups net results, net assets or disclosure: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements,
