Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 168 other FiNANCiAl iNFormAtioN Information for shareholders Duplicate accounts Financial calendar Shareholders who have more than one account due to inconsistency Annual General Meeting 10 April 2014 in account details may avoid duplicate mailings by contacting Equiniti and requesting an amalgamation of their share accounts.
Quarter One results 1 May 2014 Keep your personal details up to date Payment of 2013 final dividend 7 May 2014 Please remember to tell Equiniti if you move house or change bank Half year results announced 1 August 2014 i details or there is any other change in your account information.
Quarter Three results announced 30 October 2014 You can update your information on-line via the Shareview portfolio if you are a Smith & Nephew Shareview member.
If you do not have Payment of 2014 first interim dividend November 2014 a portfolio you will need to write to Equiniti or complete a change of Full year results announced February 2015 i address form which can be downloaded from Shareview.
If you hold Annual Report available February March 2015 2,500 shares or fewer, you can also change your address or update your bank details quickly and easily over the phone using the Annual General Meeting April 2015 contact details provided.
Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP The Company offers Shareholders except those in North America Ordinary Shareholders the opportunity to participate in a DRIP.
This enables Shareholders Registrar to reinvest their cash dividends in further ordinary shares of Smith All general enquiries concerning shareholdings, dividends, & Nephew plc.
These are purchased in the market at competitive changes to Shareholders personal details and the AGM should dealing costs.
For further details plus an application form to reinvest be addressed to: future dividends, contact Equiniti.
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex Individual savings account ISA BN99 6DA Shareholders who are UK resident may hold Smith & Nephew plc shares in an Individual Savings Account, which is administered by Tel: 0871 384 2081 the Companys registrar.
For information about this service please Tel: 44 0 121 415 7072 from outside the UK contact Equiniti.
co. uk Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute excluding VAT plus network Shareholder communications extras.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday, excluding UK public holidays.
The Company makes quarterly financial announcements which are made available through Stock Exchange announcements and on Shareholder facilities the Groups website www.
Copies of recent Annual Reports, press releases, institutional presentations and Shareview audio webcasts are also available on the website.
Equinitis on-line enquiry and portfolio management service for Shareholders.
To view information about your shareholdings The Company sends paper copies of the Notice of Annual General on-line, register at www.
Once registered Meeting and Annual Report only to those Shareholders and ADS for Shareview, you will also be able to elect to receive future holders that have elected to receive Shareholder documentation Shareholder communications via the Companys website by post.
Electronic copies of the Annual Report and Notice of www.
com, update your address details or dividend Annual General Meeting are available on the Groups website at payment instructions and register your proxy instructions on-line.
Both ordinary Shareholders and ADS holders can request paper copies of the Annual Report, which the E-communications Company provides free of charge.
The Company will continue to We encourage Shareholders to elect to receive communications send to ordinary Shareholders by post the Form of Proxy and an via e-mail as this has significant environmental and cost benefits.
accompanying letter notifying them of the availability of the Annual Shareholders may register for this service through Equiniti, at Report and Notice of Annual General Meeting on the Groups www.
Shareholders will receive a confirmation website.
Shareholders who elect to receive the Annual Report letter from Equiniti at their registered address, containing an and Notice of Annual General Meeting electronically are informed Activation Code for future use.
by e-mail of the documents availability on the Groups website.
Payment of dividends direct to your bank or building ADS holders receive the Form of Proxy by post but will not receive society account a paper copy of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders who wish to avoid the risk of their dividend payments getting lost or mislaid can arrange to have their cash dividends Investor communications paid directly to a bank or building society account.
This facility The Company maintains regular dialogue with individual institutional is available to UK resident Shareholders who receive Sterling Shareholders, together with results presentations.
To ensure that all dividends.
If you do not live in the UK you may be able to register members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of for the overseas payment service.
Further information is available major investors, the Executive Directors review significant issues at www.
co. uk or by contacting Equiniti UK and overseas raised by investors with the Board.
Non-executive Directors are sent helpline numbers as above.
copies of analysts and brokers briefings.
There is an opportunity for individual Shareholders to question the Directors at the Annual General Meeting and the Company regularly responds to letters from Shareholders on a range of issues.
