Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 other FiNANCiAl iNFormAtioN 177 Articles of Association Rights attaching to ordinary shares The following summarises certain material rights of holders of the Under English law, dividends are payable on the Companys ordinary Companys ordinary shares under the material provisions of the shares only out of profits available for distribution, as determined Companys Articles of Association and English law.
This summary in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act and UK and by the Companies Act 2006.
Holders of the Companys the Companys Articles of Association.
In the following description, ordinary shares are entitled to receive final dividends as may be a Shareholder is the person registered in the Companys register declared by the Directors and approved by the Shareholders in general meeting, rateable according to the amounts paid up on of members as the holder of an ordinary share.
such shares, provided that the dividend cannot exceed the amount The Company is incorporated under the name Smith & Nephew plc recommended by the Directors.
and is registered in England and Wales with registered The Companys Board of Directors may declare such interim number 324357. dividends as appear to them to be justified by the Companys The Companys ordinary shares may be held in certificated or financial position.
If authorised by an ordinary resolution of the uncertificated form.
No holder of the Companys shares will be Shareholders, the Board may also direct payment of a dividend required to make additional contributions of capital in respect of in whole or in part by the distribution of specific assets and in the Companys shares in the future.
In accordance with English particular of paid up shares or debentures of the Company.
law the Companys ordinary shares rank equally.
Any dividend unclaimed after 12 years from the date the dividend was declared, or became due for payment, will be forfeited and Directors will revert to the Company.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, a Director may There were no material modifications to the rights of Shareholders not vote in respect of any contract, arrangement, transaction or under the Articles during 2012. proposal in which he, or any person connected with him, has any material interest other than by virtue of his interests in securities of, or otherwise in or through, the Company.
This is subject to certain Voting rights of ordinary shares exceptions relating to proposals a indemnifying him in respect Voting at any general meeting of Shareholders is by a show of hands of obligations incurred on behalf of the Company, b indemnifying unless a poll, which is a written vote, is duly demanded and held.
a third party in respect of obligations of the Company for which On a show of hands, every Shareholder who is present in person at the Director has assumed responsibility under an indemnity or a general meeting has one vote regardless of the number of shares guarantee, c relating to an offer of securities in which he will be held.
On a poll, every Shareholder who is present in person or by interested as an underwriter, d concerning another body corporate proxy has one vote for each ordinary share held by that Shareholder.
in which the Director is beneficially interested in less than 1% of A poll may be demanded by any of the following: the issued shares of any class of shares of such a body corporate, e relating to an employee benefit in which the Director will share the chairman of the meeting: equally with other employees and f relating to any insurance that at least five Shareholders present or by proxy entitled to vote on the Company is empowered to purchase for the benefit of Directors the resolution: of the Company in respect of actions undertaken as Directors any Shareholder or Shareholders representing in the aggregate and or officers of the Company.
not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all Shareholders A Director shall not vote or be counted in any quorum present at a entitled to vote on the resolution: or meeting in relation to a resolution on which he is not entitled to vote.
any Shareholder or Shareholders holding shares conferring a right to vote on the resolution on which there have been paid-up sums The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the in aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid Company to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the up on all the shares conferring that right.
aggregate amount of all monies borrowed after deducting cash and current asset investments by the Company and its subsidiaries A form of proxy will be treated as giving the proxy the authority to shall not exceed the sum of $6,500,000,000.
demand a poll, or to join others in demanding one, as above.
Any Director who has been appointed by the Directors since the The necessary quorum for a general meeting is two Shareholders previous Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, either to fill a present in person or by proxy carrying the right to vote upon the casual vacancy or as an additional Director holds office only until business to be transacted.
the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and then shall be eligible for re-election by the Shareholders.
The other Directors retire and are eligible for re-appointment at the third Annual General Meeting after the meeting at which they were last re-appointed.
If not re-appointed a Director retiring at a meeting shall retain office until the meeting appoints someone in his place, or if it does not do so, until the conclusion of the meeting.
The Directors are subject to removal with or without cause by the Board or the Shareholders.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and English law, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against liabilities he may sustain or incur in the execution of his duties.
Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 178 other FiNANCiAl iNFormAtioN Information for shareholders continued Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the Limitations on voting and shareholding processing and passing of resolutions of which there are two kinds: There are no limitations imposed by English law or the Companys ordinary or special resolutions: Articles of Association on the right of non-residents or foreign Ordinary resolutions include resolutions for the re-election of persons to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares or ADSs, Directors, the approval of financial statements, the declaration other than the limitations that would generally apply to all of the of dividends other than interim dividends, the appointment and Companys Shareholders.
re-appointment of auditors or the grant of authority to allot shares.
An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a majority Transfers of shares of the votes of those persons voting at the meetings at which The Board may refuse to register the transfer of shares held in there is a quorum certificated form which: Special resolutions include resolutions amending the Companys Articles of Association, dis-applying statutory pre-emption rights are not fully paid provided that it shall not exercise this discretion or changing the Companys name: modifying the rights of any in such a way as to prevent stock market dealings in the shares class of the Companys shares at a meeting of the holders of such of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis : class or relating to certain matters concerning the Companys are not duly stamped or duly certified or otherwise shown to the winding up.
A special resolution requires the affirmative vote of satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty, lodged not less than three-quarters of the votes of the persons voting at the Transfer Office or at such other place as the Board may at the meeting at which there is a quorum.
appoint and save in the case of a transfer by a person to whom no certificate was issued in respect of the shares in question Annual General Meetings must be convened upon advance written accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates, notice of 21 days.
Other general meetings must be convened upon and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to advance written notice of at least 14 clear days.
The days of delivery show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the or receipt of notice are not included.
The notice must specify the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his nature of the business to be transacted.
Meetings are convened behalf, the authority of that person so to do: by the Board of Directors.
Members with 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company may requisition the Board to convene are in respect of more than one class of shares: or a meeting.
are in favour of more than four transferees.
Variation of rights Deferred shares If, at any time, the Companys share capital is divided into different Following the re-denomination of share capital on 23 January 2006 classes of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, the ordinary shares nominal value became 20 US cents each.
There subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, with the consent in were no changes to the rights or obligations of the ordinary shares.
writing of holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued In order to comply with the Companies Act 2006, a new class of shares of that class or upon the adoption of a special resolution sterling shares was created, deferred shares, of which 50,000 passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that were issued and allotted in 2006 as fully paid to the Chief Executive class.
At every such separate meeting, all the provisions of the Officer though the Board reserves the right to transfer them to articles of association relating to proceedings at a general meeting another member of the Board should it so wish.
These deferred apply, except that the quorum is to be the number of persons shares have no voting or dividend rights and on winding up only which must be two or more who hold or represent by proxy not are entitled to repayment at nominal value only if all ordinary less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the Shareholders have received the nominal value of their shares class and at any such meeting a poll may be demanded in writing plus an additional $1,000 each.
by any person or their proxy who hold shares of that class.
Where a person is present by proxy or proxies, he is treated as holding only Amendments the shares in respect of which the proxies are authorised to exercise The Company does not have any special rules about amendments voting rights.
to its Articles of Association beyond those imposed by law.
Rights in a winding up Except as the Companys Shareholders have agreed or may otherwise agree, upon the Companys winding up, the balance of assets available for distribution: after the payment of all creditors including certain preferential creditors, whether statutorily preferred creditors or normal creditors: and subject to any special rights attaching to any other class of shares: is to be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares according to the amounts paid-up on the shares held by them.
This distribution is generally to be made in US dollars.
A liquidator may, however, upon the adoption of any extraordinary resolution of the Shareholders and any other sanction required by law, divide among the Shareholders the whole or any part of the Companys assets in kind.
