Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 88 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS Directors responsibilities for the accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Group and Company Under UK law the Directors have elected to prepare the Company accounts in accordance with applicable UK law and regulations.
As a accounts in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting consequence of the Companys ordinary shares being traded on the Practice UK Accounting Standards and applicable law, which are New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Shares the Directors are responsible for the preparation and filing the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
of an annual report on Form 20-F with the US Securities and In preparing the Company accounts, the Directors are required to: Exchange Commission.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The Directors are required to prepare Group accounts for each consistently: financial year, in accordance with the International Financial make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been which present fairly the financial position of the Group and the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
explained in the accounts: and In preparing those Group accounts, the Directors are required to: prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors business.
and then apply them consistently: The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above present information, including accounting policies, in a manner requirements in preparing the accounts.
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, in the the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions case of the Group accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are on the Groups financial position and financial performance: and also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
It should be noted that information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS 89 Fair, Balanced and Understandable Going concern As required by the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to confirm that they consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, affect its future development, performance and position are set out is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information in the Financial review and principal risks section on pages 36 to 41. necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position business model and strategy.
When arriving at this conclusion the and borrowing facilities are described under Commentary on the Board was assisted by a number of processes including: Group cash flow statement section set out on page 99.
The Annual Report is drafted and comprehensively reviewed by In addition, the Notes to the Group accounts include the Groups appropriate senior management with overall co-ordination by the objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its Head of Financial Reporting: financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk An extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure factual and liquidity risk.
accuracy, with third party review by legal advisers: and The final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to The Group has considerable financial resources and its customers and suppliers are diversified across different geographic areas.
As consideration by the Board.
a consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risk successfully despite the on-going Directors responsibility statement pursuant to uncertain economic outlook.
disclosure and transparency Rule 4 The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has The Directors confirm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern the Group accounts in this report, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and basis for accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies Management also believes that the Group has sufficient working reporting under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, capital for its present requirements.
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: Directors Report the Company accounts in this report, which have been prepared The Directors Report has been prepared in accordance with the in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice requirements of the Companies Act 2006. and the Companies Act 2006, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and By order of the Board, 26 February 2014 the Financial review and principal risks section and commentary on pages 36 to 41 contained in the accounts includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the financial position of the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Susan Swabey that they face.
Company Secretary Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 90 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS Critical accounting policies The Group prepares its consolidated financial statements in Retirement benefits accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted A number of key judgements have to be made in calculating the by the EU, the application of which often requires judgements to fair value of the Groups defined benefit pension plans.
These be made by management when formulating the Groups financial assumptions impact the balance sheet liability, operating profit and position and results.
Under IFRS, the Directors are required to other finance income costs.
The most critical assumptions are the adopt those accounting policies most appropriate to the Groups discount rate and mortality assumptions to be applied to future circumstances for the purpose of presenting fairly the Groups pension plan liabilities.
For example, as of 31 December 2013, a financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
0.5% increase in discount rate would have reduced the combined In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is UK and US pension plan deficit by $112m whilst a 0.5% decrease often required in respect of items where the choice of specific would have increased the combined deficit by $123m.
A 0.5% policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could increase in discount rate would have increased profit before taxation materially affect the reported results or net asset position of the by $6m whilst a 0.5% decrease would have decreased it by $6m.
Group: it may later be determined that a different choice would A one-year increase in the assumed life expectancy of the average have been more appropriate.
60 year old male pension plan member in both the UK and US would have increased the combined deficit by $42m.
In making these The Groups significant accounting policies are set out in Notes 1 to judgements, management takes into account the advice of 23 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
Of those, the policies which professional external actuaries and benchmarks its assumptions require the most use of managements judgement are as follows: against external data.
The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields on Inventories high quality corporate bonds, with currency and term consistent with A feature of the Orthopaedic Reconstruction and Trauma & those of the liabilities.
In particular for the UK and US, the discount Extremities franchises whose finished goods inventory makes up rate is derived by reference to an AA yield curve derived by the approximately 79% of the Group total finished goods inventory is the Groups actuarial advisers.
high level of product inventory required, some of which is located at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use.
See Note 18 of the Notes to the Group accounts for a summary of Complete sets of products, including large and small sizes, have to how the assumptions selected in the last five years have compared be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less frequently with actual results.
than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value Contingencies and provisions are therefore required to be made to orthopaedic inventory to The recognition of provisions for legal disputes is subject to a anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in significant degree of estimation.
Provision is made for loss accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared contingencies when it is considered probable that an adverse with historical usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product outcome will occur and the amount of the loss can be reasonably line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the estimated.
In making its estimates, management takes into account market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered the advice of internal and external legal counsel.
Provisions are appropriate based on experience, but it does involve management reviewed regularly and amounts updated where necessary to reflect judgements on customer demand, effectiveness of inventory developments in the disputes.
The ultimate liability may differ deployment, length of product lives, phase-out of old products and from the amount provided depending on the outcome of court efficiency of manufacturing planning systems.
proceedings and settlement negotiations or if investigations bring to light new facts.
Impairment The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world.
In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill, intangible assets and Although it is Group policy to submit its tax returns to the relevant property, plant and equipment, a number of significant assumptions tax authorities as promptly as possible, at any given time the Group have to be made when preparing cash flow projections.
These has unagreed years outstanding and is involved in disputes and include the future rate of market growth, discount rates, the market tax audits.
Significant issues may take several years to resolve.
demand for the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired In estimating the probability and amount of any tax charge, businesses or products, levels of reimbursement and success in management takes into account the views of internal and external obtaining regulatory approvals.
If actual results should differ or advisers and updates the amount of provision whenever necessary.
changes in expectations arise, impairment charges may be required The ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided which would adversely impact operating results.
depending on interpretations of tax law, settlement negotiations or changes in legislation.
