Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 108 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS Notes to the Group accounts continued 4 Interest and other finance costs 4.1 Interest receivable payable 2013 2012 2011 $ million $ million $ million Interest receivable 14 11 4 Interest payable: Bank borrowings 8 7 6 Other 2 2 6 10 9 12 Net interest receivable payable 4 2 8 4.2 Other finance costs 2012 2011 2013 Restated Restated Notes $ million $ million $ million Retirement benefit net interest expense 18 11 11 14 Other 1 Other finance costs 11 11 13 Foreign exchange gains or losses recognised in the income statement arose primarily on the translation of intercompany and third party borrowings and amounted to a net $1m gain in 2013 2012 net $5m loss, 2011 net $3m gain.
These amounts were fully matched in the income statement by the fair value gains or losses on currency swaps carried at fair value through profit and loss held to manage this currency risk.
5 Taxation ACCOUNTING POLICY The charge for current taxation is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed.
It is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The Group operates in multiple tax jurisdictions around the world and records provisions for taxation liabilities and tax audits when it is considered probable that a tax charge will arise and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Although Group policy is to submit its tax returns to the relevant tax authorities as promptly as possible, at any time the Group has un-agreed years outstanding and is involved in disputes and tax audits.
Significant issues may take many years to resolve.
In estimating the probability and amount of any tax charge, management takes into account the views of internal and external advisers and updates the amount of the provision whenever necessary.
The ultimate tax liability may differ from the amount provided depending on interpretations of tax law, settlement negotiations or changes in legislation.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
Deferred tax is not recognised for: temporary differences related to investments in subsidiaries and associates where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that this will not reverse in the foreseeable future: on the initial recognition of non-deductible goodwill: and on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and that, at the time of the transaction, does not affect the accounting or taxable profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be used.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis, and at the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date that are expected to apply in the periods in which the asset or liability is settled.
It is recognised in the income statement except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to other comprehensive income or equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised within other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority, when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis and that authority permits the Group to make a single net payment.
