Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 other FiNANCiAl iNFormAtioN 161 The acquisitions and disposals effect is the measure of the impact Non-GAAP Financial Information on revenue from newly acquired business combinations.
This is calculated by comparing the current year, constant currency actual Revenue revenue which include acquisitions and exclude disposals from the Underlying growth in revenue is used to compare the revenue in relevant date of completion with prior year, constant currency actual revenue, adjusted to include the results of acquisitions and exclude a given year to the previous year on a like-for-like basis.
This is achieved by adjusting for the impact of sales of products acquired disposals for the commensurate period in the prior year.
These sales in material business combinations and for movements in exchange are separately tracked in the Groups internal reporting systems and are readily identifiable.
Underlying growth in revenue is not presented in the accounts prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Reported revenue growth, the most directly comparable financial Standards IFRS and is therefore a measure not in accordance with measure calculated in accordance with IFRS, reconciles to underlying Generally Accepted Accounting Principles a non-GAAP measure.
growth in revenue as follows: The Group believes that the tabular presentation and reconciliation 2013 2012 2011 of reported revenue growth to underlying revenue growth assists % % % investors in their assessment of the Groups performance in each business segment and for the Group as a whole.
Reported revenue growth 5 3 8 Underlying growth in revenue is considered by the Group to be Constant currency an important measure of performance in terms of local functional exchange effect 1 2 4 currency since it excludes those items considered to be outside the Acquisition Disposals effect 2 3 influence of local management.
The Groups management uses this Underlying revenue 4 2 4 non-GAAP measure in its internal financial reporting, budgeting and planning to assess performance on both a business segment and A reconciliation of reported revenue growth to underlying revenue a consolidated Group basis.
Revenue growth at constant currency growth, by business segment, can be found on page 37. is important in measuring business performance compared to competitors and compared to the growth of the market itself.
Trading profit The Group considers that revenue from sales of products acquired Trading profit is a trend measure which presents the long-term in material business combinations results in a step-up in growth in profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions revenue in the year of acquisition that cannot be wholly attributed to that management considers affects the Groups short-term local managements efforts with respect to the business in the year profitability.
The Group presents this measure to assist investors in of acquisition.
Depending on the timing of the acquisition, there will their understanding of trends.
The Group has identified the following usually be a further step change in the following year.
A measure of items, where material, as those to be excluded from operating profit growth excluding the effects of business combinations also allows when arriving at trading profit: acquisition and disposal related items senior management to evaluate the performance and relative including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impact of growth from the existing business and growth from impairments: significant restructuring events: acquisition costs: and acquisitions.
The process of making business acquisitions is gains and losses resulting from legal disputes and uninsured losses.
directed, approved and funded from the Group corporate centre in line with strategic objectives.
Growth in trading profit and trading profit margin trading profit expressed as a percentage of revenue are measures which present The material limitation of the underlying growth in revenue measure the growth trend in the long-term profitability of the Group excluding is that it excludes certain factors, described above, which ultimately the impact of specific transactions or events that management have a significant impact on total revenues.
The Group compensates considers affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group for this limitation by taking into account relative movements in presents these measures to assist investors in their understanding exchange rates in its investment, strategic planning and resource of the trends.
The Groups international financial reporting budgets, allocation.
In addition, as the evaluation and assessment of business monthly reporting, forecasts, long-term planning and incentive plans acquisitions is not within the control of local management, focuses primarily on profit and earnings before these items.
Trading performance of acquisitions is monitored centrally until the business profit and trading profit margin are not recognised measures under is integrated.
IFRS and are therefore non-GAAP financial measures.
The Groups management considers that the non-GAAP measure of underlying growth in revenue and the GAAP measure of growth in revenue are complementary measures, neither of which management uses exclusively.
Underlying growth in revenue reconciles to growth in revenue reported, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with IFRS by making two adjustments, the constant currency exchange effect and the acquisitions and disposals effect, described below.
The constant currency exchange effect is a measure of the increase decrease in revenue resulting from currency movements on non-US Dollar sales.
This is measured as the difference between the increase in revenue translated into US Dollars on a GAAP basis i. e. current year revenue translated at the current year average rate, prior year revenue translated at the prior year average rate and the increase measured by translating current and prior year revenue into US Dollars using the prior year closing rate.
Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 162 other FiNANCiAl iNFormAtioN Other financial information continued Operating profit, the most directly comparable financial measure The material limitation of these measures is that they exclude calculated in accordance with IFRS, reconciles to trading profit significant income and costs that have a direct impact on current as follows: and prior years profit attributable to shareholders.
They do not, therefore, measure the overall performance of the Group presented 2013 2012 2011 by the GAAP financial measure of operating profit.
The Group $million $million $million considers that no single measure enables it to assess overall performance and therefore it compensates for the limitation of the Operating profit 810 846 862 trading profit measure by considering it in conjunction with its GAAP Acquisition-related costs 31 11 equivalent.
The gains or losses which are identified separately arise Restructuring and from irregular events or transactions.
Such events or transactions rationalisation costs 58 65 40 are authorised centrally and require a strategic assessment which includes consideration of financial returns and generation of Amortisation of acquisition shareholder value.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles will occur intangibles and impairments 88 43 36 each year, whilst other excluded items arise irregularly depending Legal claim see page 130 23 on the events that give rise to such items.
Trading profit 987 965 961 2012 2011 2013 Restated Restated A reconciliation of operating profit to trading profit, by business Earnings per Ordinary Share segment, can be found on page 38.
Basic 61.7 80.4 64.5 Diluted 61.4 80.0 64.2 Adjusted earnings per ordinary share Adjusted: Basic 76.9 74.8 73.7 Growth in adjusted earnings per ordinary share EPSA is another Adjusted: Diluted 76.5 74.5 73.4 measure which presents the trend in the long-term profitability of the Group.
EPSA is not a recognised measure under IFRS and is therefore a non-GAAP financial measure.
The most directly Trading cash flow and trading profit to cash comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with conversion ratio IFRS is earnings per ordinary share.
Growth in trading cash flow and improvement in the trading profit to EPSA excludes the same impact of specific transactions or events cash conversion ratio are measures which present the trend growth that management considers affect the Groups short-term in the long-term cash generation of the Group excluding the impact profitability, is used by the Group for similar purposes, and is subject of specific transactions or events that management considers affect to the same material limitations, as set out and discussed in the the Groups short-term performance.
above section on trading profit.
Trading cash flow is defined as cash generated from operations less Adjusted attributable profit represents the numerator used in net capital expenditure but before acquisition-related cash flows, the EPSA calculation.
Adjusted attributable profit is reconciled to restructuring and rationalisation cash flows and cash flows arising attributable profit, the most directly comparable financial measure from legal disputes and uninsured losses.
Trading profit to cash in accordance with IFRS, as follows: conversion ratio is trading cash flow expressed as a percentage of trading profit.
The nature and material limitations of these adjusted 2012 2011 items are discussed above.
2013 Restated Restated $million $million $million The Group presents those measures to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
The Groups internal financial reporting Attributable profit for the year 556 721 575 budgets, monthly reporting, forecasts, long-term planning and Acquisition-related costs 31 11 incentive plans focuses on cash generation before these items.
Restructuring and Trading cash flow and trading profit to cash conversion ratio are rationalisation expenses 58 65 40 not recognised measures under IFRS and are therefore considered non-GAAP financial measures.
Amortisation of acquisition intangibles and impairments 88 43 36 The material limitation of this measure is that it could exclude Profit on disposal of net assets significant cash flows that have had a direct impact on the current held for sale 251 and prior years financial performance of the Group.
It does not, therefore, measure the financial performance of the Group Legal claim see page 130 23 presented by the GAAP measure of cash generated from operations.
Taxation on excluded items The Group considers that no single measure enables it to assess see page 109 40 82 17 financial performance and therefore it compensates for the limitation Adjusted attributable profit 693 671 657 of the trading cash flow measure by considering it in conjunction with the GAAP equivalents.
Cash flows excluded relate to irregular events or transaction costs and cash flows arising from legal disputes and uninsured losses.
