Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 other FiNANCiAl iNFormAtioN 181 Glossary of terms Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the meanings shown below: Term Meaning ADR In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of ADSs evidenced by American Depository Receipts ADRs.
ADS In the US, the Companys Ordinary Shares are traded in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs.
Advanced Surgical Devices A product group comprising products for orthopaedic replacement and reconstruction, endoscopy devices and trauma devices.
Products for orthopaedic replacement include systems for knees, hips, and shoulders.
Endoscopy devices comprise of support products for orthopaedic surgery such as computer assisted surgery and minimally invasive surgery techniques using specialised viewing and access devices, surgical instruments and powered equipment.
Orthopaedics trauma devices are used in the treatment of bone fractures including rods, pins, screws, plates and external frames.
Advanced Wound Management A product group comprising products associated with the treatment of skin wounds, ranging from products that provide moist wound healing using breathable films and polymers to products providing active wound healing by biochemical or cellular action.
Franchise offering healthcare providers a variety of technologies such as fluid management equipment for surgical access, high definition cameras, digital image capture, scope, light sources and monitors, radio frequency probes, electromechanical and mechanical blades and hand instruments for removing damaged tissue.
AGM Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Arthroscopy Endoscopy of the joints is termed arthroscopy, with the principal applications being the knee and shoulder.
ASD Advanced Surgical Devices division.
AWM Advanced Wound Management division.
Basis Point One hundredth of one percentage point.
Chronic wounds Chronic wounds are those with long or unknown healing times including leg ulcers, pressure sores and diabetic foot ulcers.
COGS Cost of Goods Sold Company Smith & Nephew plc or, where appropriate, the Companys Board of Directors, unless the context otherwise requires.
Companies Act Companies Act 2006, as amended, of England and Wales.
DOJ US Department of Justice EBITA Earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Emerging markets Emerging markets include Greater China, India, Brazil and Russia.
EPSA Adjusted Earnings Per Share is a trend measure which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affects the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents this measure to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
Adjusted attributable profit is the numerator used for this measure.
Endoscopy Through a small incision, surgeons are able to see inside the body using a monitor and identify and repair defects.
Established Markets Established Markets include United States of America, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, Canada and Japan.
Euro or References to the common currency used in the majority of the countries of the European Union.
FCA Financial Conduct Authority FDA US Food and Drug Administration.
Financial statements Refers to the consolidated Group Accounts of Smith & Nephew plc.
FTSE 100 Index of the largest 100 listed companies on the London Stock Exchange by market capitalisation.
GMP Good manufacturing practice or GMP is the guidance that outlines the aspects of production and testing that can impact the quality of a product.
Group or Smith & Nephew Used for convenience to refer to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context otherwise requires.
Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 182 other FiNANCiAl iNFormAtioN Glossary of terms continued Term Meaning IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
International markets International Markets include Middle East, North Africa, Southern Africa, Latin America, ASEAN, South Korea and Eastern Europe.
LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate LSE London Stock Exchange.
Metal-on-metal hip resurfacing A less invasive surgical approach to treating arthritis in certain patients whereby only the surfaces of the hip joint are replaced leaving the hip head substantially preserved.
Negative Pressure Wound Therapy A technology used to treat chronic wounds such as diabetic ulcers, pressure sores and post-operative wounds through the application of sub-atmospheric pressure to an open wound.
NYSE New York Stock Exchange.
Orthopaedic products Orthopaedic reconstruction products include joint replacement systems for knees, hips and shoulders and support products such as computer-assisted surgery and minimally invasive surgery techniques.
Orthopaedic trauma devices are used in the treatment of bone fractures including rods, pins, screws, plates and external frames.
Clinical therapies products include joint fluid therapy for pain reduction of the knee and an ultrasound treatment to accelerate the healing of bone fractures.
OSHA US Occupational Safety and Health Administration OXINIUM OXINIUM material is an advanced load bearing technology.
It is created through a proprietary manufacturing process that enables zirconium to absorb oxygen and transform to a ceramic on the surface, resulting in a material that incorporates the features of ceramic and metal.
Management believes that OXINIUM material used in the production of components of knee and hip implants exhibits unique performance characteristics due to its hardness, low-friction and resistance to roughening and abrasion.
Parent Company Smith & Nephew plc.
Pound Sterling, Sterling, pence or p References to UK currency.
1p is equivalent to one hundredth of 1.
Repair A product group within ASD comprising specialised devices, fixation systems and bio-absorbable materials to repair joints and associated tissue.
Resection Products that cut or ablate tissue within ASD comprising mechanical blades, radio frequency wands, electromechanical and hand instruments for resecting tissue.
SEC US Securities and Exchange Commission SKUs Stock Keeping Units Trading profit Trading profit is a trend which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers affects the Groups shortterm profitability.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be excluded from operating profit when arriving at trading profit: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets and impairments: significant restructuring events: acquisition costs: and gains and losses resulting from legal disputes and uninsured losses.
UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
UK GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom.
US United States of America.
US Dollars, US $ or cents References to US currency.
1 cent is equivalent to one hundredth of US$1.
US GAAP Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Visualisation Products within ASD comprising digital cameras, light sources, monitors, scopes, image capture, central control and multimedia broadcasting systems for use in endoscopic surgery with visualisation.
Wound bed An area of healthy dermal and epidermal tissue of a wound.
