Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 other FiNANCiAl iNFormAtioN 171 Dividend history Smith & Nephew has paid dividends on its ordinary shares in every year since 1937.
Following the capital restructuring and dividend reduction in 2000 the Group adopted a policy of increasing its dividend cover the ratio of EPSA, as set out in the Selected financial data, to ordinary dividends declared for the year.
This was intended to increase the financing capability of the Group for acquisitions and other investments.
From 2000 to 2004 the dividend increased in line with inflation and, in 2004, dividend cover stood at 4.1 times.
Having achieved this level of dividend cover the Board changed its policy, from that of increasing dividends in line with inflation, to that of increasing dividends for 2005 and after by 10%.
Following the redenomination of the Companys share capital into US Dollars the Board re-affirmed its policy of increasing the dividend by 10% a year in US Dollar terms.
On 2 August 2012, the Board announced its intention to pursue a progressive dividend policy, with the aim of increasing the US Dollar value of ordinary dividends over time broadly based on the Groups underlying growth in earnings, while taking into account capital requirements and cash flows.
From 2013, the Board will review at the time of the full year results, the appropriate level of total annual dividend each year.
The Board intends that the interim dividend will be set by a formula and will be equivalent to 40% of the total dividend for the previous year.
Dividends will continue to be declared in US Dollars with an equivalent amount in Sterling payable to those Shareholders whose registered address is in the UK, or who have validly elected to receive Sterling dividends.
An interim dividend in respect of each fiscal year is normally declared in August and paid in November.
A final dividend will be recommended by the Board of Directors and paid subject to approval by Shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Future dividends of Smith & Nephew will be dependent upon: future earnings: the future financial condition of the Group: the Boards dividend policy: and the additional factors that might affect the business of the Group set out in Special note regarding forward-looking statements and Risk Factors.
Dividends per share The table below sets out the dividends per ordinary share in the last five years.
Dividends above include the associated UK tax credit of 10%, but exclude the deduction of withholding taxes.
All dividends, up to the second interim dividend for 2005, were declared in pence per ordinary share and translated into US cents per ordinary share at the Noon Buying Rate on the payment date.
Since the second interim dividend for 2005 all dividends have been declared in US cents per Ordinary Share.
The 2013 final dividend will be payable on 7 May 2014, subject to Shareholder approval.
In respect of the proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 17.0 US cents per ordinary share, the record date will be 22 April 2014 and the payment date will be 7 May 2014.
The Sterling equivalent per ordinary share will be set following the record date.
Shareholders may elect to receive their dividend in either Sterling or US Dollars and the last day for election will be 22 April 2014.
The ordinary shares will trade ex-dividend on both the London and New York Stock Exchanges from 16 April 2014.
