Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 other FiNANCiAl iNFormAtioN 175 Taxation information for Shareholders Taxation of dividends in the UK and the US The comments below are of a general and summary nature and are The UK does not currently impose a withholding tax on dividends based on the Groups understanding of certain aspects of current paid by a UK corporation, such as the Company.
UK and US federal income tax law and practice relevant to the ADSs Distributions paid by the Company will be treated for US federal and ordinary shares not in ADS form.
The comments address the income tax purposes as foreign source ordinary dividend income material US and UK tax consequences generally applicable to a to a US Holder to the extent paid out of the Companys current or person who is the beneficial owner of ADSs or ordinary shares and accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal who, for US federal income tax purposes, is a citizen or resident of income tax purposes.
Such dividends will not be eligible for the the US, a corporation or other entity taxable as a corporation dividends-received deduction generally allowed to corporate created or organised in or under the laws of the US, or an estate or US Holders.
trust the income of which is included in gross income for US federal income tax purposes regardless of its source each a US Holder.
Dividends paid to certain non-corporate US Holders of ordinary The comments set out below do not purport to address all tax shares or ADSs may be subject to US federal income tax at lower consequences of the ownership of ADSs or ordinary shares which rates than those applicable to other types of ordinary income if may be material to a particular holder and in particular do not deal certain conditions are met.
Non-corporate US Holders should with the position of Shareholders who directly or indirectly own 10% consult their own tax advisers to determine whether they are subject or more of the Companys issued ordinary shares.
This discussion to any special rules that limit their ability to be taxed at these does not apply to i persons whose holding of ADSs or ordinary favourable rates.
shares is effectively connected with or pertains to either a permanent establishment in the UK through which a US Holder Taxation of capital gains carries on a business in the UK or a fixed base from which a US US Holders, who are not resident or ordinarily resident for tax Holder performs independent personal services in the UK, or ii purposes in the UK, will not generally be liable for UK capital gains persons whose registered address is inside the UK.
This discussion tax on any capital gain realised upon the sale or other disposition of does not apply to certain investors subject to special rules, such ADSs or ordinary shares unless the ADSs or ordinary shares are as certain financial institutions, tax-exempt entities, insurance held in connection with a trade carried on in the UK through a companies, broker-dealers, traders in securities that elect to use permanent establishment or in the case of individuals, through a the mark to market method of tax accounting, partnerships or other branch or agency.
Furthermore, UK resident individuals who acquire entities treated as partnerships for US federal income tax purposes, ADSs or ordinary shares before becoming temporarily non-UK US Holders holding ADSs or ordinary shares as part of a hedging, residents may remain subject to UK taxation of capital gains on conversion or other integrated transaction or whose functional gains realised while non-resident.
currency for US federal income tax purposes is other than the US dollar and US Holders liable for alternative minimum tax.
In addition, For US federal income tax purposes, gains or losses realised upon the comments below do not address the potential application of the a taxable sale or other disposition of ADSs or ordinary shares by provisions of the United States Internal Revenue Code, known as US Holders generally will be US source capital gains or losses and the Medicare contribution tax, or any US state, local or non-US will be long-term capital gains or losses if the ADSs or ordinary other than UK taxes.
The summary deals only with US Holders shares were held for more than one year.
The amount of a US who hold ADSs or ordinary shares as capital assets.
The summary Holders gain or loss will be equal to the difference between the is based on current UK and US law and practice which is subject amount realised on the sale or other disposition and such holders to change, possibly with retroactive effect.
US Holders are tax basis in the ADSs, or ordinary shares, determined in US dollars.
recommended to consult their own tax advisers as to the particular tax consequences to them of the ownership of ADSs or ordinary Inheritance and estate taxes shares.
The Company believes, and this discussion assumes, that The HM Revenue & Customs imposes inheritance tax on capital the Company was not a passive foreign investment company for its transfers which occur on death, and in the seven years preceding taxable year ended 31 December 2013. death.
The HM Revenue & Customs considers that the US UK This discussion is based in part on representations by the depositary Double Taxation Convention on Estate and Gift Tax applies to and assumes that each obligation under the deposit agreement and inheritance tax.
Consequently, a US citizen who is domiciled in the any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its US and is not a UK national or domiciled in the UK will not be subject terms.
For purposes of US federal income tax law, US Holders of to UK inheritance tax in respect of ADSs and ordinary shares.
A UK ADSs will generally be treated as owners of the ordinary shares national who is domiciled in the US will be subject to both UK represented by the ADSs.
However, the US Treasury has expressed inheritance tax and US federal estate tax but will be entitled to a concerns that parties to whom depositary shares are released credit for US federal estate tax charged in respect of ADSs and before shares are delivered to the depositary pre-released may be ordinary shares in computing the liability to UK inheritance tax.
taking actions that are inconsistent with the claiming of foreign tax Conversely, a US citizen who is domiciled or deemed domiciled in credits by owners of depositary shares.
Such actions would also be the UK will be entitled to a credit for UK inheritance tax charged in inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced rate of tax, described respect of ADSs and ordinary shares in computing the liability for US below, applicable to dividends received by certain non-corporate federal estate tax.
Special rules apply where ADSs and ordinary US Holders.
Accordingly, the availability of the reduced tax rate for shares are business property of a permanent establishment of an dividends received by certain non-corporate US Holders of ADSs enterprise situated in the UK.
could be affected by actions that may be taken by parties to whom ADSs are pre-released.
Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 176 other FiNANCiAl iNFormAtioN Information for shareholders continued A charge of stamp duty or SDRT at the rate of 1% of the US information reporting and backup withholding consideration or, in some circumstances, the value of the shares A US Holder may be subject to US information reporting and backup concerned will arise on a transfer or issue of ordinary shares to withholding on dividends paid on or the proceeds of sales of ADSs the depositary or to certain persons providing a clearance service or ordinary shares made within the US or through certain US-related or their nominees or agents for the conversion into ADRs and financial intermediaries, unless the US Holder is an exempt recipient will generally be payable by the depositary or person providing or, in the case of backup withholding, provides a correct US taxpayer clearance service.
In accordance with the terms of the Deposit identification number and certain other conditions are met.
Agreement, any tax or duty payable by the depositary on deposits US backup withholding may apply if there has been a notification of ordinary shares will be charged by the depositary to the party to from the US Internal Revenue Service of a failure to report all interest whom ADRs are delivered against such deposits.
No liability for stamp duty or SDRT will arise on any transfer of, or Any backup withholding deducted may be credited against the agreement to transfer, an ADS or beneficial ownership of an ADS, US Holders US federal income tax liability, and, where the backup provided that the ADS and any instrument of transfer or written withholding exceeds the actual liability, the US Holder may obtain agreement to transfer remains at all times outside the UK, and a refund by timely filing the appropriate refund claim with the provided further that any instrument of transfer or written agreement US Internal Revenue Service.
to transfer is not executed in the UK and the transfer does not relate to any matter or thing done or to be done in the UK the location of Certain US Holders who are individuals and under proposed the custodian as a holder of ordinary shares not being relevant in Treasury regulations, certain entities may be required to report this context.
In any other case, any transfer of, or agreement to information relating to securities issued by a non-US person or transfer, an ADS or beneficial ownership of an ADS could, foreign accounts through which the securities are held, subject to depending on all the circumstances of the transfer, give rise to a certain exceptions including an exception for securities held in charge to stamp duty or SDRT.
accounts maintained by US financial institutions.
US Holders should consult their tax advisers regarding their reporting obligations with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax UK stamp duty is charged on documents and in particular instruments for the transfer of registered ownership of ordinary shares.
Transfers of ordinary shares in certificated form will generally be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of % of the consideration given for the transfer with the duty rounded up to the nearest 5.
UK stamp duty reserve tax SDRT arises when there is an agreement to transfer shares in UK companies for consideration in money or moneys worth, and so an agreement to transfer ordinary shares for money or other consideration may give rise to a charge to SDRT at the rate of % rounded up to the nearest penny.
The charge of SDRT will be cancelled, and any SDRT already paid will be refunded, if within six years of the agreement an instrument of transfer is produced to HM Revenue & Customs and the appropriate stamp duty paid.
Transfers of ordinary shares into CREST an electronic transfer system are exempt from stamp duty so long as the transferee is a member of CREST who will hold the ordinary shares as a nominee for the transferor and the transfer is in a form that will ensure that the securities become held in uncertificated form within CREST.
Paperless transfers of ordinary shares within CREST for consideration in money or moneys worth are liable to SDRT rather than stamp duty.
SDRT on relevant transactions will be collected by CREST at %, and this will apply whether or not the transfer is effected in the UK and whether or not the parties to it are resident or situated in the UK.
