Group StrAteGic report corporAte GoverNANce FiNANciAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 Group iNFormAtioN 155 Group information Business overview and Group history Smith & Nephews operations are organised into two primary divisions that operate globally: Advanced Surgical Devices and Advanced Wound Management.
The Group has a history dating back over 150 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, UK in 1856.
Following his death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smith took over the management of the business.
By the late 1990s, Smith & Nephew had expanded into being a diverse healthcare conglomerate with operations across the globe, producing various medical devices, personal care products and traditional and advanced wound care treatments.
In 1998, Smith & Nephew announced a major restructuring to focus management attention and investment on three global business units Advanced Wound Management, Endoscopy and Orthopaedics which offered high growth and margin opportunities.
In 2011, the Endoscopy and Orthopaedics businesses were brought together to create an Advanced Surgical Devices division.
Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1937 and in 1999 the Group was also listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent member of the FTSE-100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the London Stock Exchange measured in terms of market capitalisation.
Today, Smith & Nephew is a public limited company incorporated and headquartered in the UK and carries out business around the world.
Property, plant and equipment The table below summarises the main properties which the Group uses and their approximate areas.
Approximate area square feet 000s Group head office in London, UK 20 Group research facility in York, UK 84 Advanced Surgical Devices headquarters in Andover, Massachusetts, US 144 Advanced Wound Management headquarters and manufacturing facility in Hull, UK 473 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, US 971 Advanced Surgical Devices distribution facility in Memphis, Tennessee, US 210 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facility in Aarau, Switzerland 121 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facility in Beijing, China 192 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing and warehouse facility in Warwick, UK 90 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing and warehouse facility in Tuttlingen, Germany 64 Advanced Surgical Devices distribution facility and European headquarters in Baar, Switzerland 67 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facility in Mansfield, Massachusetts, US 98 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facility in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, US 155 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facility in Calgary, Canada 17 Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facility in Sangameshwar, India 39 Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facility in Gilberdyke, UK 51 Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facility in Suzhou, China 288 Advanced Wound Management manufacturing facility in Fort Saskatchewan, Canada 76 Advanced Wound Management US headquarters in St. Petersburg, Florida, US 44 Advanced Wound Bioactives headquarters and laboratory space in Texas, US 105 Advanced Wound Bioactives manufacturing facility in Curaao, Dutch Caribbean 16 The Group Global Operations strategy includes ongoing assessment of the optimal facility footprint.
The Advanced Surgical Devices manufacturing facilities in Memphis, Tennessee are largely freehold, a portion of Tuttlingen and the Advanced Wound Management facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke are freehold while other principal locations are leasehold.
The Group has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in other countries throughout the world, but no other is individually significant to the Group.
Where required, the appropriate governmental authorities have approved the facilities.
Off-balance sheet arrangements Management believes that the Group does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined by the SEC in item 5E of Form 20-F, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on the Groups financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors.
Related party transactions Except for transactions with associates see Note 23.2 of Notes to the Group accounts, no other related party had material transactions or loans with Smith & Nephew over the last three financial years.
Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 156 Group iNFormAtioN Group information continued The Group maintains reserves for excess and obsolete inventory Risk factors resulting from the potential inability to sell its products at prices in There are known and unknown risks and uncertainties relating to excess of current carrying costs.
Marketplace changes resulting from Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below could cause the introduction of new products or surgical procedures may cause the Groups business, financial position and results of operations to some of the Groups products to become obsolete.
The Group differ materially and adversely from expected and historical levels.
In makes estimates regarding the future recoverability of the costs of addition, other factors not listed here that Smith & Nephew cannot these products and records a provision for excess and obsolete presently identify or does not believe to be equally significant could inventories based on historical experience, expiration of sterilisation also materially adversely affect Smith & Nephews business, financial dates and expected future trends.
If actual product life cycles, position or results of operations.
product demand or acceptance of new product introductions are less favourable than projected by management, additional inventory Highly competitive markets write-downs may be required.
The Groups business segments compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
Each market in which the business Dependence on government and other funding segments operate contains a number of different competitors, In most Established Markets throughout the world, expenditure including specialised and international corporations.
Significant on medical devices is ultimately controlled to a large extent by product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn from price competition by competitors could adversely affect the Groups healthcare budgets depending on government policy.
is therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased funds commensurate with the increased demand arising Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing from demographic trends.
and other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able to initiate technological advances in the field, deliver Pricing of the Groups products is largely governed in most products on more attractive terms, more aggressively market their Established Markets by governmental reimbursement authorities.
products or invest larger amounts of capital and research and Initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and development R&D into their businesses.
the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, excise taxes and competitive pricing, are ongoing There is a possibility of further consolidation of competitors, which in markets where the Group has operations.
This control may be could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with larger exercised by determining prices for an individual product or for an companies due to insufficient financial resources.
If any of the entire procedure.
The Group is exposed to government policies Groups businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than favouring locally sourced products.
The Group is also exposed to expected revenue growth, there could be a disproportionate adverse changes in reimbursement policy, tax policy and pricing which may impact on the Groups share price and its strategic options.
have an adverse impact on revenue and operating profit.
In Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients particular, changes to the healthcare legislation in the US have on the basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some imposed significant taxes on medical device manufacturers from consolidation in the Groups customer base and this trend is 2013.
There may be an increased risk of adverse changes to expected to continue.
Increased competition and unanticipated government funding policies arising from the deterioration in macroactions by competitors or customers could lead to downward economic conditions in some of the Groups markets.
pressure on prices and or a decline in market share in any of the The Group must adhere to the rules laid down by government Groups business areas, which could adversely affect Smith & agencies that fund or regulate healthcare, including extensive and Nephews results of operations and hinder its growth potential.
Failure to do so could result in fines or loss of future funding.
Continual development and introduction of new products World economic conditions The medical devices industry has a rapid rate of new product Demand for the Groups products is driven by demographic trends, introduction.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups including the ageing population and the incidence of osteoporosis business segments must continue to develop innovative products and obesity.
Supply of, use of and payment for the Groups products that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other are also influenced by world economic conditions which could place advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and increased pressure on demand and pricing, adversely impacting the uncertain process.
The Group may fail to innovate due to low R&D Groups ability to deliver revenue and margin growth.
The conditions investment, a R&D skills gap or poor product development.
A could favour larger, better capitalised groups, with higher market potential product may not be brought to market or not succeed in the shares and margins.
As a consequence, the Groups prosperity is market for any number of reasons, including failure to work linked to general economic conditions and there is a risk of optimally, failure to receive regulatory approval, failure to be costdeterioration of the Groups performance and finances during competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property adverse macro-economic conditions.
rights and changes in consumer demand.
The Groups products and technologies are also subject to marketing attack by competitors.
During 2013, economic conditions worldwide continued to create Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the several challenges for the Group, including deferrals of joint Groups competitors may affect price levels in the various markets in replacement procedures, heightened pricing pressure, significant which the Groups business segments operate.
If the Groups new declines in capital equipment expenditures at hospitals and products do not remain competitive with those of competitors, the increased uncertainty over the collectability of European government debt, particularly those in certain parts of southern Europe.
These Groups revenue could decline.
factors tempered the overall growth of the Groups global markets and could have an increased impact on growth in the future.
Group StrAteGic report corporAte GoverNANce FiNANciAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 Group iNFormAtioN 157 Consequently, the Group may be forced to pay higher prices to Political uncertainties obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to pass on to its The Group operates on a worldwide basis and has distribution customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
In channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 addition, some of the raw materials used may become unavailable, countries.
Political upheaval in some of those countries or in and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain surrounding regions may impact the Groups results of operations.
Any interruption of supply Political changes in a country could prevent the Group from receiving caused by these or other factors could negatively impact Smith & remittances of profit from a member of the Group located in that Nephews revenue and operating profit.
country or from selling its products or investments in that country.
The Group will, from time to time, outsource the manufacture of Furthermore, changes in government policy regarding import quotas, components and finished products to third parties and will taxation or other matters could adversely affect the Groups revenue periodically relocate the manufacture of product and or processes and operating profit.
War, terrorist activities or other conflict could between existing facilities.
While these are planned activities, with also adversely impact the Group.
these transfers there is a risk of disruption to supply.
Currency fluctuations Attracting and retaining key personnel Smith & Nephews results of operations are affected by transactional The Groups continued development depends on its ability to hire exchange rate movements in that they are subject to exposures and retain highly-skilled personnel with particular expertise.
This is arising from revenue in a currency different from the related costs critical, particularly in general management, research, new product and expenses.
The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated development and in the sales forces.
If Smith & Nephew is unable principally in the US, the UK, China and Switzerland, from which to retain key personnel in general management, research and new finished products are exported to the Groups selling operations product development or if its largest sales forces suffer disruption worldwide.
Thus, the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange or upheaval, its revenue and operating profit would be adversely rates between the US Dollar, Sterling and Swiss Franc and the affected.
Additionally, if the Group is unable to recruit, hire, develop currency of the Groups selling operations, particularly the Euro, and retain a talented, competitive workforce, it may not be able to Australian Dollar and Japanese Yen.
If the US Dollar, Sterling or meet its strategic business objectives.
Swiss Franc should strengthen against the Euro, Australian Dollar and the Japanese Yen, the Groups trading margin could be adversely affected.
Proprietary rights and patents The Group manages the impact of exchange rate movements on Due to the technological nature of medical devices and the Groups revenue and cost of goods sold by a policy of transacting forward emphasis on serving its customers with innovative products, the foreign currency commitments when firm purchase orders are Group has been subject to patent infringement claims and is subject placed.
In addition, the Groups policy is for forecast transactions to the potential for additional claims.
to be covered between 50% and 90% for up to one year.
Claims asserted by third parties regarding infringement of their The Group uses the US Dollar as its reporting currency and the US intellectual property rights, if successful, could require the Group Dollar is the functional currency of Smith & Nephew plc.
The Groups to expend time and significant resources to pay damages, develop revenues, profits and earnings are also affected by exchange rate non-infringing products or obtain licences to the products which are movements on the translation of results of operations in foreign the subject of such litigation, thereby affecting the Groups growth subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes.
See Liquidity and and profitability.
Smith & Nephew attempts to protect its intellectual capital resources on page 99. property and regularly opposes third party patents and trademarks where appropriate in those areas that might conflict with the Groups business interests.
If Smith & Nephew fails to protect and enforce its Manufacturing and supply intellectual property rights successfully, its competitive position could The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at 14 main suffer, which could harm its results of operations.
facilities in Memphis, Mansfield and Oklahoma City in the US, Hull, Warwick and Gilberdyke in the UK, Aarau in Switzerland, Tuttlingen Product liability claims and loss of reputation in Germany, Fort Saskatchewan and Calgary in Canada, Sangameshwar in India, Suzhou and Beijing in China and Curaao.
The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices entail If major physical disruption took place at any of these sites, it could risk of product liability claims or recalls.
Design and manufacturing adversely affect the results of operations.
Physical loss and defects with respect to products sold by the Group or by companies consequential loss insurance is carried to cover such risks but is it has acquired could damage, or impair the repair of, body subject to limits and deductibles and may not be sufficient to cover functions.
The Group may become subject to liability, which could be catastrophic loss.
Management of orthopaedic inventory is complex, substantial, because of actual or alleged defects in its products.
In particularly forecasting and production planning.
There is a risk that addition, product defects could lead to the need to recall from the failures in operational execution could lead to excess inventory or market existing products, which may be costly and harmful to the individual product shortages.
Each of the business segments is reliant on certain key suppliers There can be no assurance that customers, particularly in the US, of raw materials, components, finished products and packaging the Groups largest geographical market, will not bring product materials or in some cases on a single supplier.
These suppliers liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect must provide the materials and perform the activities to the Groups on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the standard of quality requirements.
If any of these suppliers is unable future, or that the Group will be able to resolve such claims within to meet the Groups needs, compromises on standards of quality or insurance limits.
substantially increases its prices, Smith & Nephew would need to seek alternative suppliers.
There can be no assurance that alternative suppliers would provide the necessary raw materials on favourable or cost-effective terms at the desired quality.
Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 158 Group iNFormAtioN Group information continued emphasis on innovative products and services should contribute Regulatory standards and compliance in the to success in this environment.
healthcare industry Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements could have a Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to number of adverse consequences, including withdrawal of approval regulation and review by various government authorities.
In general, to sell a product in a country, temporary closure of a manufacturing the trend in many countries in which the Group does business is facility, fines and potential damage to company reputation.
towards higher expectations and increased enforcement activity by governmental authorities.
While the Group is committed to doing Failure to make successful acquisitions business with integrity and welcomes the trend to higher standards A key element of the Groups strategy for continued growth is to in the healthcare industry, the Group and other companies in the make acquisitions or alliances to complement its existing business.
industry have been subject to investigations and other enforcement Failure to identify appropriate acquisition targets or failure to conduct activity that have incurred and may continue to incur significant adequate due diligence or to integrate them successfully would have expense.
See Note 17 to the Group accounts.
Under certain an adverse impact on the Groups competitive position and circumstances, if the Group were found to have violated the law, its profitability.
This could result from the diversion of management ability to sell its products to certain customers could be restricted.
resources towards the acquisition or integration process, challenges of integrating organisations of different geographic, cultural and International regulation ethical backgrounds, as well as the prospect of taking on The Group operates across the world and is subject to legislation, unexpected or unknown liabilities.
In addition, the availability of including anti-bribery and corruption and data protection, in each global capital may make financing less attainable or more expensive country in which we operate.
Our international operations are and could result in the Group failing in its strategic aim of growth by governed by the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices acquisition or alliance.
Act FCPA which prohibit us or our agents from making, or offering, improper payments to foreign governments and their officials for the Relationships with healthcare professionals purpose of obtaining or maintaining business or product approvals.
Enforcement of such legislation has increased in recent years with The Group seeks to maintain effective and ethical working significant fines and penalties being imposed on companies and relationships with physicians and medical personnel who assist in individuals.
Our international operations, particularly in the emerging the research and development of new products or improvements to markets, expose the Group to the risk that our employees or agents our existing product range or in product training and medical will engage in prohibited activities.
If we are unable to maintain these relationships our ability to meet the demands of our customers could be diminished and our revenue and profit could be materially adversely affected.
Regulatory approval The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Reliance on sophisticated information technology Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable The Group uses a wide variety of information systems, programmes products and the amount of time and expense that should be and technology to manage our business.
Our systems are allotted to such development.
vulnerable to a cyber-attack, malicious intrusion, loss of data privacy or any other significant disruption.
Our systems have been and will National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex continue to be the target of such threats.
We have systems in place series of laws and regulations that govern the design, development, to minimise the risk and disruption of these intrusions and to monitor approval, manufacture, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare our systems on an ongoing basis for current or potential threats.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of There can be no assurance that these measures will prove effective such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in many in protecting Smith & Nephew from future interruptions and as a countries that products be authorised or registered prior to result the performance of the Group could be materially manufacture, marketing or sale and that such authorisation or adversely affected.
The major regulatory agencies for Smith & Nephews products include the Food and Drug Administration FDA in the US, the Medicines and Healthcare Other risk factors products Regulatory Agency in the UK, the Ministry of Health, Labour Smith & Nephew is subject to a number of other risks, which are and Welfare in Japan and the China Food and Drug Administration.
common to most global medical technology groups and are At any time, the Group is awaiting a number of regulatory approvals reviewed as part of the Groups risk management process.
which, if not received, could adversely affect results of operations.
The trend is towards more stringent regulation and higher standards Factors affecting Smith & Nephews results of of technical appraisal.
Such controls have become increasingly operations demanding to comply with and management believes that this trend Government economic, fiscal, monetary and political policies are all will continue.
factors that materially affect the Groups operation or investments Regulatory requirements may also entail inspections for compliance of shareholders.
Other factors include sales trends, currency with appropriate standards, including those relating to Quality fluctuations and innovation.
Each of these factors is discussed Management Systems or Good Manufacturing Practices regulations.
further in the Our Marketplace on pages 16 to 18, Segment All manufacturing and other significant facilities within the Group performance on pages 24 to 33 and Taxation information for are subject to regular internal and external audit for compliance with shareholders on pages 175 and 176. national and Group medical device regulation and policies.
Payment for medical devices may be governed by reimbursement tariff agencies in a number of countries.
Reimbursement rates may be set in response to perceived economic value of the devices, based on clinical and other data relating to cost, patient outcomes and comparative effectiveness.
They may also be affected by overall government budgetary considerations.
The Group believes that its
