Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 150 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS Independent auditors report for the Company Independent Auditors Report to the members of Opinion on other matters prescribed by Smith & Nephew plc the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of In our opinion: Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has comprise the Parent Company balance sheet and the related Notes 1 been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act to 9.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in 2006: and their preparation is applicable law and UK accounting standards the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Report for the financial year for which the financial statements This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, are prepared is consistent with the parent company in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. financial statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Matters on which we are required to report in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to by exception anyone other than the Company and the Companys members We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, we have formed.
in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set received from branches not visited by us: or out on pages 88 and 89, the Directors are responsible for the the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility with the accounting records and returns: or is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are statements in accordance with applicable law and International not made: or Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us we have not received all the information and explanations we to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical require for our audit.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2013. disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Les Clifford Senior statutory auditor assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently London applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 26 February 2014 accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on accounts In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Parent Company financial statements of Smith & Nephew plc on pages 151 to 154 do not form part of the Smith & Nephews Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
