Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 140 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS Notes to the Group accounts continued 21 Acquisitions and disposals ACCOUNTING POLICY The Group accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method when control is transferred to the Group.
The consideration transferred in the acquisition is measured at fair value, as are the identifiable net assets acquired.
Any goodwill that arises is tested annually for impairment.
Any gain on a bargain purchase is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
Transaction costs are expensed as incurred, except if related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not re-measured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
Otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
21.1 Acquisitions Year ended 31 December 2013 On 30 September 2013, the Group acquired certain assets and liabilities in respect of a Turkish business, which distributes products related to orthopaedic reconstruction, trauma, sports medicine and arthroscopic technologies.
The acquisition is deemed to be a business combination within the scope of IFRS 3.
The estimated fair value of the consideration is $63m and includes $12m of contingent consideration in respect of agreed milestones and $36m through the settlement of working capital commitments.
The fair values shown below are provisional.
If new information is obtained within the measurement period about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date, the acquisition accounting will be revised.
The provisional estimate of goodwill arising on the acquisition is $12m.
It is attributable to the additional economic benefits expected from the transaction, including the assembled workforce, which has been transferred as part of the acquisition.
The goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
The following table summarises the consideration transferred, and the recognised amounts of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
$ million Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Property, plant and equipment 4 Inventories 8 Trade receivables and prepayments 24 Identifiable intangible assets 17 Payables and accruals 2 Net assets 51 Goodwill 12 Cost of acquisition 63 The Group incurred acquisition-related costs of $4m, primarily related to external legal fees and due diligence costs.
These costs have been recognised in administrative expenses in the Groups income statement.
In 2013, the contribution to revenue and attributable profit from the acquisition was immaterial.
If the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the year the contribution to revenue and attributable profit would have also been immaterial.
Other acquisitions During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group acquired a Brazilian distributor of its advanced wound management products and a business based in India primarily engaged in the manufacture and distribution of trauma products.
These acquisitions are deemed to be business combinations within the scope of IFRS 3.
The aggregated total estimated fair value of the consideration is $63m and includes $2m of contingent consideration and $2m through the settlement of working capital commitments.
As at the acquisition date, the aggregated value of the net assets acquired was $38 million, which included property, plant and equipment of $1 million, inventory of $4 million, trade receivables and prepayments of $3 million, identifiable intangible assets of $47 million, payables and accruals of $3 million and deferred tax liabilities of $14 million.
Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS 141 The provisional aggregated estimate of goodwill arising on the acquisitions is $25m.
This is attributable to the additional economic benefits expected from the transactions, including the assembled workforces, which have been transferred as part of the acquisitions.
The goodwill recognised is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
In 2013, the contribution to revenue and attributable profit from these acquisitions is immaterial.
If these acquisitions had occurred at the beginning of the year their contribution to revenue and attributable profit would have also been immaterial.
21.2 Post balance sheet event Subsequent to the balance sheet date, on 3 February 2014 the Group announced the execution of a definitive agreement to acquire 100% of the shares of ArthroCare Corp. for approximately $1.7 billion.
The acquisition is subject to customary conditions, including a vote of ArthroCares shareholders and governmental clearances.
The acquisition is expected to close in mid-2014.
The acquisition will be financed through existing debt facilities and cash balances, including the existing $1 billion revolving credit facility and a new two-year $1.4 billion term loan facility, established in February 2014.
Information regarding the assets and liabilities acquired will not be available until after completion.
21.3 Commitment On 26 March 2013, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire the assets related to the distribution business for its sport medicine, orthopaedic reconstruction, and trauma products in Brazil.
This acquisition is expected to close in the first half of 2014 subject to the satisfaction of conditions required for closing.
The final consideration for this acquisition is subject to change based on the terms and conditions of the agreement and is not expected to be material.
As at 31 December 2013 and the date of approval of these financial statements, the Group does not hold any legal ownership in, or control this business.
21.4 Year ended 31 December 2012 On 21 December 2012 the Group acquired substantially all the assets of Healthpoint Biotherapeutics Healthpoint, a leader in bioactive debridement, dermal repair and regeneration wound care treatments.
Consideration was in the form of a single payment of $782m.
The accounting for the acquisition was completed during 2013.
The fair values shown below include measurement period adjustments recognised during the period.
The goodwill arising on the acquisition is $89m.
It is attributable to the additional economic benefits expected from the transaction, including revenue synergies and the assembled workforce, which has been transferred as part of the acquisition.
The goodwill recognised is deductible for tax purposes.
Provisional Revised values Adjustment values $ million $ million $ million Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed Property, plant and equipment 27 27 Inventories 46 46 Trade receivables 31 31 Identifiable intangible assets 662 11 651 Deferred tax assets 5 5 Payables and accruals 49 49 Provisions 13 13 Net assets 709 16 693 Goodwill 73 16 89 Cost of acquisition 782 782 In 2012, the Group incurred acquisition-related costs of $11m related to professional and adviser fees.
These costs have been recognised in administrative expenses in the income statement.
No acquisition-related costs were incurred in 2011.
In 2012, since the date of acquisition, the contribution to attributable profit from Healthpoint products was immaterial.
The unaudited revenues from Healthpoint products during 2012 were $190m.
