Group StrAteGiC report CorporAte GoverNANCe FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS AND other iNFormAtioN Smith & Nephew ANNuAl report 2013 FiNANCiAl StAtemeNtS 117 10 Investments ACCOUNTING POLICY Investments, other than those related to associates, are initially recorded at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs on the trade date.
The Group has an investment in an entity that holds mainly unquoted equity securities, which by their very nature have no fixed maturity date or coupon rate.
The investment is classed as available-for-sale and carried at fair value.
The fair value of the investment is based on the underlying fair value of the equity securities: marketable securities are valued by reference to closing prices in the market: non-marketable securities are estimated considering factors including the purchase price, prices of recent significant private placements of securities of the same issuer and estimates of liquidation value.
Changes in fair value are recognised in other comprehensive income except where management considers that there is objective evidence of an impairment of the underlying equity securities.
Objective evidence would include a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its cost less any impairment loss previously recognised.
Impairment losses are recognised by reclassifying the losses accumulated in other reserves to profit or loss.
2013 2012 $ million $ million At 1 January 2 4 Impairment 2 At 31 December 2 2 11 Investments in associates ACCOUNTING POLICY Investments in associates, being those entities over which the Group has a significant influence and which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture, are accounted for using the equity method, with the Group recording its share of the associates profit and loss and other comprehensive income.
The Groups share of associates profit or loss is included in one separate income statement line and is calculated after deduction of their respective taxes.
At 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012, the Group holds 49% of Bioventus LLC Bioventus.
Bioventus is a limited liability company operating as a partnership.
The Companys headquarters is located in Durham, North Carolina, US.
The Company focuses its medical product development around its core competencies of orthobiologic therapies and orthopaedic diagnostics from which it develops and markets clinically proven orthopaedic therapies and diagnostic tools, including osteoarthritis pain treatments, bone growth stimulators and ultrasound devices.
The Company sells bone stimulation devices and a provider of osteoarthritis injection therapies.
The loss after taxation recognised in the income statement relating to Bioventus was $2m 2012 profit after taxation $4m.
The carrying amount of this investment was reviewed for impairment as at the balance sheet date.
For the purposes of impairment testing the recoverable amount of this investment was based on its fair value less cost to sell, estimated using discounted cash flows.
The fair value measurement was categorised as a level 3 fair value based on the inputs and valuation technique used.
Given the relatively short passage of time between the date of acquisition and the impairment review, the estimated recoverable amount of the investment marginally exceeded its carrying amount.
Management has identified that a reasonable possible change in the key assumptions and estimated cash flows could cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount.
However, any such change would not result in the recognition of a material impairment loss.
In addition to its 49% ownership interest in Bioventus, the Group holds a senior secured five year loan note with Bioventus.
The loan note was created in May 2012 with a principal amount of $160m and an annual coupon rate of LIBOR plus 5%.
The loan note is carried at amortised cost.
Interest receivable of $11m was accrued during 2013 2012: $7m.
In accordance with the terms of the agreement $10m of interest receivable has been rolled-up into principal during 2013.
As at the balance sheet date, the carrying amount of the loan note and the related interest receivable is neither past due nor impaired.
In 2013, the Group sold its 49% interest in the Austrian entities Plus Orthopedics GmbH and Intraplant GmbH and its 20% interest in the German entity Intercus GmbH.
The profit after taxation recognised in the income statement prior to the disposal was $1m 2012 $nil.
