Consolidated statement of changes in equity Share capital Equity and share Other Retained Hedge shareholders Non-controlling Total premium reserves earnings reserve funds interest equity Notes m m m m m m m At 31 July 2012 479.2 242.3 376.1 124.8 972.8 8.0 980.8 Profit for the year 356.6 356.6 1.6 358.2 Other comprehensive income Actuarial gains on retirement benefits and related tax 246.0 246.0 246.0 Exchange gains losses 101.7 0.2 101.5 1.7 99.8 Fair value gains losses and related tax 0.9 49.0 49.9 49.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 703.4 49.2 654.2 0.1 654.1 Transactions relating to ownership interests Exercises of share options 22 9.3 9.3 9.3 Taxation recognised on share options 6 1.0 1.0 1.0 Purchase of own shares 23 11.0 11.0 11.0 Dividends equity shareholders 7 152.4 152.4 152.4 non-controlling interest 0.3 0.3 Share-based payment 27 12.1 12.1 12.1 At 31 July 2013 488.5 242.3 929.2 174.0 1,486.0 7.6 1,493.6 Share capital Equity and share Other Retained Hedge shareholders Non-controlling Total premium reserves earnings reserve funds interest equity Notes m m m m m m m At 31 July 2011 476.2 242.3 775.6 120.6 1,373.5 6.4 1,379.9 Profit for the year 256.6 256.6 1.6 258.2 Other comprehensive income Actuarial losses on retirement benefits and related tax 506.6 506.6 506.6 Exchange losses gains 15.2 0.1 15.1 0.3 14.8 Fair value gains losses and related tax 5.9 4.3 1.6 1.6 Total comprehensive income for the year 259.3 4.2 263.5 1.9 261.6 Transactions relating to ownership interests Exercises of share options 22 3.0 3.0 3.0 Taxation recognised on share options 6 0.8 0.8 0.8 Purchase of own shares 23 9.7 9.7 9.7 Dividends equity shareholders 7 144.1 144.1 144.1 non-controlling interest 0.3 0.3 Share-based payment 27 14.4 14.4 14.4 At 31 July 2012 479.2 242.3 376.1 124.8 972.8 8.0 980.8 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 107 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Consolidated cash-flow statement Year ended Year ended 31 July 2013 31 July 2012 Notes m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 26 353.4 331.5 Cash-flows from investing activities Expenditure on capitalised development 28.4 27.6 Expenditure on other intangible assets 11.1 13.5 Purchases of property, plant and equipment 12 56.5 50.1 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 3.9 0.7 Investment in financial assets 24.3 24.3 Acquisition of businesses 0.5 167.5 Disposals of businesses 0.3 47.3 Net cash-flow used in investing activities 116.6 235.0 Cash-flows from financing activities Proceeds from exercise of share options 22 9.3 3.0 Purchase of own shares 11.0 9.7 Dividends paid to equity shareholders 7 152.4 144.1 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 0.3 0.3 Cash outflow from matured derivative financial instruments 0.4 1.7 Increase in new borrowings 247.2 174.8 Reduction and repayment of borrowings 159.1 173.5 Net cash-flow used in financing activities 66.7 151.5 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 170.1 55.0 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 203.7 260.7 Exchange gain loss 12.7 2.0 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 18 386.5 203.7 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year comprise cash at bank and in hand 164.2 130.8 short-term deposits 229.6 74.8 bank overdrafts 7.3 1.9 386.5 203.7 Included in cash and cash equivalents per the balance sheet 393.8 205.6 Included in overdrafts per the balance sheet 7.3 1.9 386.5 203.7 Reconciliation of net cash-flow to movement in net debt Year ended Year ended 31 July 2013 31 July 2012 Notes m m Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 170.1 55.0 Net increase decrease in borrowings resulting from cash-flows 88.1 1.3 Movement in net debt resulting from cash-flows 82.0 56.3 Capitalisation, interest accruals and unwind of capitalisation fees 3.8 0.5 Movement from fair value hedging 9.7 4.2 Exchange differences 40.9 1.4 Movement in net debt in the year 18 47.0 62.4 Net debt at start of year 791.4 729.0 Net debt at end of year 18 744.4 791.4 108 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Accounting policies Basis of preparation The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations, as adopted by the European Union, on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention modified to include revaluation of certain financial instruments, share options and pension assets and liabilities, held at fair value as described below.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the adoption of Amendment to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements Presentation of items of other comprehensive income.
Adopting this new accounting requirement has changed the layout of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates The preparation of the accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key estimates and assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Revenue recognition The timing of revenue recognition on contracts depends on the assessed stage of completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This assessment requires the expected total contract revenues and costs to be estimated based on the current progress of the contract.
Revenue of 53.0m 31 July 2012: 34.5m has been recognised in the period in respect of contracts in progress at the period end with a total expected value of 149.7m 31 July 2012: 172.2m.
A 5% reduction in the proportion of the contract activity recognised in the current year would have reduced operating profit by an estimated 0.5m 31 July 2012: 0.1m for Smiths Detection and 0.3m 31 July 2012: 0.6m for Smiths Interconnect.
In addition to contracts accounted for on a percentage of completion basis, Smiths Detection also has long-term contractual arrangements for the sale of goods and services.
Margins achieved on these contracts can reflect the impact of commercial decisions made in different economic circumstances.
In addition, contract delivery is subject to commercial and technical risks which can affect the outcome of the contract.
Smiths Detection recognised revenue of 244.5m for goods and services this year in respect of contracts which were signed before the start of the year.
Smiths Medical has rebate arrangements in place with some distributors in respect of sales to end customers where sales prices have been negotiated by Smiths Medical.
Rebates are estimated based on the level of discount derived from sales data from distributors, the amount of inventory held by distributors and the time lag between the initial sale to the distributor and the rebate being claimed.
Impairment Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and intangible assets acquired in business combinations are tested if there are any indications of impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy set out below.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units and intangible assets are determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates including projected future cash-flows and other future events.
See note 11 for details of the critical assumptions made, including the sales and margin volatility in Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect and disclosures on the sensitivity of the impairment testing to these key assumptions, including details of the changes in assumptions required to trigger an impairment in Smiths Interconnect Power Management.
Provisions for liabilities and charges As previously reported, John Crane, Inc. a subsidiary of the Group, is currently one of many co-defendants in litigation relating to products previously manufactured which contained asbestos.
Provision of 210.0m 31 July 2012: 213.1m has been made for the future defence costs which the Group is expected to incur and the expected costs of future adverse judgments against John Crane, Inc. Whilst published incidence curves can be used to estimate the likely future pattern of asbestos related disease, John Crane, Inc. s claims experience is significantly impacted by other factors which influence the US litigation environment.
These can include: changing approaches on the part of the plaintiffs bar: changing attitudes amongst the judiciary at both trial and appellate levels: and legislative and procedural changes in both the state and federal court systems.
Therefore, because of the significant uncertainty associated with the future level of asbestos claims and of the costs arising out of the related litigation, there can be no guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred.
As a result, the provision may be subject to potentially material revisions from time to time if new information becomes available as a result of future events.
John Crane, Inc. takes account of the advice of an expert in asbestos liability estimation in quantifying the expected costs.
As previously reported, Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the Group in the Flex-Tek division, has received a number of claims from insurance companies seeking recompense on a subrogated basis for the effects of damage allegedly caused by lightning strikes in relation to its flexible gas piping product.
It has also received a number of product liability claims regarding this product, some in the form of purported class actions.
Titeflex Corporation believes that its products are a safe and effective means of delivering gas when installed in accordance with the manufacturers instructions and local and national codes, however some claims have been settled on an individual basis without admission of liability.
Provision of 65.6m 31 July 2012: 61.8m has been made for the costs which the Group is expected to incur in respect of these claims.
However, because of the significant uncertainty associated with the future level of claims, there can be no guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred.
As a result the provision may be subject to potentially material revisions if new information becomes available.
The Group has on occasion been required to take legal action to protect its intellectual property and other rights against infringement.
It has also had to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties, including product liability and insurance subrogation claims.
Provision is made for any expected costs and liabilities in relation to these proceedings where appropriate, though there can be no guarantee that such provisions which may be subject to potentially material revision from time to time will accurately predict the actual costs and liabilities that may be incurred.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 109 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Accounting policies Continued Retirement benefits The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
The costs and the present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on such factors as life expectancy of the members, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
The Group uses previous experience and impartial actuarial advice to select the values of critical estimates.
The estimates, and the effect of variances in key estimates, are disclosed in note 9.
At 31 July 2013 there is a retirement benefit asset of 121.7m 2012: 7.2m which arises from the rights of the employers to recover the surplus at the end of the life of the scheme.
If the pension schemes were wound up while they still had members, the schemes would need to buy out the benefits of all members.
The buy outs would cost significantly more than the present value of the scheme liabilities calculated in accordance with IAS 19: Employee benefits.
Taxation The Group has recognised deferred tax assets of 28.1m 2012: 16.1m relating to losses and 85.6m 2012: 74.1m relating to the John Crane, Inc. and Titeflex Corporation litigation provisions.
The recognition of assets pertaining to these items involves judgement by management as to the likelihood of realisation of these deferred tax assets and this is based on a number of factors, which seek to assess the expectation that the benefit of these assets will be realised, including appropriate taxable temporary timing differences and it has been concluded that there are sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support recognition.
Further detail on the Groups deferred taxation position is included in note 6.
Accounting policies Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate the financial statements of Smiths Group plc the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of its associates.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which this power is transferred to the Company to the date that control ceases.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but does not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
Foreign currencies The Companys presentational currency is sterling.
The results and financial position of all subsidiaries and associates that have a functional currency different from sterling are translated into sterling as follows: assets and liabilities are translated at the rate of exchange at the date of that balance sheet: income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the period: and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative amount of such exchange differences is recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Exchange differences arising on transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Those arising on trading are taken to operating profit: those arising on borrowings are classified as finance income or cost.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, net of trade discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is discounted only where the impact of discounting is material.
Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and recovery of the consideration is probable.
For established products with simple installation requirements, revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the customer in accordance with the agreed delivery terms.
For products which are technically innovative, highly customised or require complex installation, revenue is recognised when the customer has completed its acceptance procedures.
Services Revenue from services is recognised in accounting periods in which the services are rendered, by reference to completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Depending on the nature of the contract, revenue will be recognised on the basis of the proportion of the contract term completed, the proportion of the contract costs incurred or the specific services provided to date.
Construction contracts Contracts for the construction of substantial assets are accounted for as construction contracts if the customer specifies major structural elements of the design, including the ability to amend the design during the construction process.
These projects normally involve installing customised systems with site specific integration requirements.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
The Group uses the percentage of completion method to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period.
The assessment of the stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract, but will generally be based on the estimated proportion of the total contract costs which have been incurred to date.
If a contract is expected to be loss-making, a provision is recognised for the entire loss.
110 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 Employee benefits Share-based compensation The Group operates a number of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the shares or share options granted is recognised as an expense over the vesting period to reflect the value of the employee services received.
The fair value of options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions, is calculated using established option pricing models, principally binomial models.
The probability of meeting non-market vesting conditions, which include profitability targets, is used to estimate the number of share options which are likely to vest.
For cash-settled share-based payment, a liability is recognised based on the fair value of the payment earned by the balance sheet date.
For equity-settled share-based payment, the corresponding credit is recognised directly in reserves.
Pension obligations and post-retirement benefits The Group has defined benefit plans, defined contribution plans and post-retirement healthcare schemes.
For defined benefit plans and post-retirement healthcare schemes the liability for each scheme recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of any plan assets.
The obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the income statement and are presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
In this case, the past service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
Contributions are expensed as incurred.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Exceptional items Items which are material either because of their size or their nature, and material items which are non-recurring, are presented within their relevant consolidated income statement category, but highlighted through separate disclosure.
The separate reporting of exceptional items helps provide a better picture of the Companys underlying performance.
Items which are included within the exceptional category include: profits losses on disposal of businesses and costs of acquisitions and disposals: spend on the integration of significant acquisitions and other major restructuring programmes: significant goodwill or other asset impairments: income and expenditure relating to material litigation in respect of products no longer in production: and other particularly significant or unusual items.
Exceptional items are excluded from the headline profit measures used by the Group.
See note 3 for the basis of calculation of these measures.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on profits for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method.
A deferred tax asset is recognised where it is probable that future taxable income will be sufficient to utilise the available relief.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences is controlled by the Company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Discontinued operations are presented on the income statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013 111 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Accounting policies Continued Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions of subsidiaries after 1 August 1998 is included in intangible assets, tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions of subsidiaries before 1 August 1998 was set against reserves in the year of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Subsequent reversals of impairment losses for goodwill are not recognised.
Research and development Expenditure on research and development is charged to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred with the exception of: amounts recoverable from third parties: and expenditure incurred in respect of the development of major new products where the outcome of those projects is assessed as being reasonably certain as regards viability and technical feasibility.
Such expenditure is capitalised and amortised straight line over the estimated period of sale for each product, commencing in the year that sales of the product are first made.
The cost of development projects which are expected to take a substantial period of time to complete, and commenced after 1August2009, includes attributable borrowing costs.
Intangible assets acquired in business combinations The identifiable net assets acquired as a result of a business combination may include intangible assets other than goodwill.
Any such intangible assets are amortised straight line over their expected useful lives as follows: Patents, licences and trademarks up to 20 years Technology up to 12 years Customer relationships up to 7 years The assets useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Software, patents and intellectual property The estimated useful lives are as follows: Software up to 7 years Patents and intellectual property shorter of the economic life and the period the right is legally enforceable The assets useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on other assets estimated to write off the depreciable amount of relevant assets by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives.
In general, the rates used are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2%: Short leasehold property over the period of the lease: Plant, machinery, etc.
10% to 20%: Fixtures, fittings, tools and other equipment 10% to 33%.
The cost of any assets which are expected to take a substantial period of time to complete whose construction began after 1 August 2009 includes attributable borrowing costs.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
The cost of items of inventory which take a substantial period of time to complete includes attributable borrowing costs for all items whose production began after 1 August 2009.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate provision for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms will not be collected.
112 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013
