Group directors report Continued Special dividend Registrar The Groups robust balance sheet and record of strong cash The address and contact details of Equiniti Limited, the Companys generation is more than able to fund immediate investment needs Registrar, are listed on the inside back cover of this report.
The Board is proposing a resolution Individual shareholders access to their personal shareholder for the return of 118m of cash to shareholders in the form of information is available online, through the www.
co. uk a special dividend of 30 pence per ordinary share.
The UK shareholder helpline telephone number is dividend would be in addition to the recommended final ordinary 0871 384 2943.
Note: calls to this number are charged at 8p per dividend of 27 pence per ordinary share.
The approval of this minuteplus network extras.
Helpline services are available from resolution is not dependant on the approval of the final dividend 08:30 to 17:30, Monday to Friday including UK Bank Holidays.
Subject to the passing of this resolution The international shareholder helpline telephone number is at the AGM, the special dividend will be paid to shareholders 44 0 121 415 7047. who are on the register of members at close of business on Important information 25October2013.
The payment date will be 22 November 2013.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take in Disclosure of information to the auditors relation to the resolutions being proposed at the AGM, you are As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there recommended to consult your stockbroker, bank manager, is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps he or she authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. should have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself If you received this document in printed form from the Company aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the and have recently sold or transferred all your shares in Smiths Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Group plc, please pass this document to the purchaser or transferee or to the agent through whom the sale or transfer Electronic communications at www.
com was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
The 2006 Act recognises the growing importance of electronic communication e-communication and enables companies Recommendation to provide documentation and communications to shareholders Your directors believe that all the proposals to be considered at the via their websites, except to those shareholders who elect to AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders receive hard printed paper copies by post.
E-communication as a whole and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of allows shareholders faster access to important information the resolutions.
The directors intend to vote in favour of the about the Company: saves the Company considerable overheads, resolutions in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
by reducing its print production costs and postage: and helps By Order of the Board the environment by saving the energy and raw materials that would otherwise be used in producing and dispatching printed Sarah Cameron documents.
At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on Secretary 11June2007 shareholders approved the adoption of electronic Smiths Group plc communications.
2nd Floor, Cardinal Place 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL Electronic copies of the Annual Report 2013 and the Notice of AGM will be posted on the Companys website, www.
17September 2013 The Companys announcements to the Stock Exchange and press releases are available online through the website.
Shareholding details and practical help on share transfers and changes of address can be found at www.
Shareholders wishing to change their election and receive documents in hard copy form can do so at any time by contacting the Companys Registrar or by logging on to www.
Electronic proxy voting The Company continues to provide electronic proxy voting for this years AGM.
Shareholders who are not Crest members can appoint a proxy and vote online for or against or consciously not vote on the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM by visiting the website www.
The onscreen instructions will give details on how to complete the appointment and voting process.
Crest members, Crest personal members and other Crest-sponsored members should consult the Crest Manual or their sponsor or voting service provider for instructions on electronic proxy appointment and voting.
The Company may treat as invalid a Crest proxy voting instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Paper proxy cards will be distributed with the Notice of AGM to all shareholders other than those who have elected for notification by email.
Shareholders who will not be able to attend the AGM on 19November2013 in person are encouraged to vote their shares by appointing a proxy and issuing voting instructions either electronically or by completing and returning their proxy cards.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrar not later than 48 hours before the AGM in order to be valid.
100 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2013
