Additional Information Glossary Market definitions Region Country US US Europe Albania Germany Poland Austria Greece Portugal Belarus Hungary Romania Belgium Iceland Serbia and Montenegro Bosnia and Ireland Slovakia Herzegovina Bulgaria Israel Slovenia Croatia Italy Spain Cyprus Kazakhstan Sweden Czech Republic Latvia Switzerland Denmark Lithuania UK Estonia Luxembourg Ukraine Finland Malta France Netherlands Georgia Norway Established ROW Australia Canada Japan New Zealand Emerging Markets Algeria Costa Rica Iran Nicaragua Singapore UAE Argentina Cuba Iraq Oman South Africa Uruguay Aruba Dominican Republic Jamaica Other Africa South Korea Venezuela Bahamas Ecuador Jordan Pakistan Sri Lanka Vietnam Bahrain Egypt Kuwait Palestine Sudan Yemen Barbados El Salvador Lebanon Panama Syria Bermuda Guatemala Libya Peru Taiwan Brazil Honduras Malaysia Philippines Thailand Chile Hong Kong Mexico Qatar Trinidad and Tobago China India Morocco Russia Tunisia Colombia Indonesia Netherlands Antilles Saudi Arabia Turkey IMS Health, IMS Midas Quantum Q3 2013 data is not available or AstraZeneca does not subscribe for IMS Health quarterly data for these countries.
The above table is not an exhaustive list of all the countries in which AstraZeneca operates, and excludes countries with revenue in 2013 of less than $1 million.
Established Markets means US, Europe and Established ROW.
Other Africa includes Angola, Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Asia Area comprises India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
US equivalents Terms used in this Annual Report US equivalent or brief description Accruals Accrued expenses Allotted Issued Called-up share capital Issued share capital Creditors Liabilities payables Debtors Receivables and prepaid expenses Earnings Net income Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Fixed asset investments Non-current investments Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity Interest payable Interest expense Loans Long-term debt Prepayments Prepaid expenses Profit Income Profit and loss account Income statement consolidated statement of comprehensive income Share premium account Premiums paid in excess of par value of Ordinary Shares Short-term investments Redeemable securities and short-term deposits 232 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Complete Response Letter CRL a letter IFRS International Financial Reporting Glossary issued by the FDA communicating its decision Standards or International Financial Reporting The following abbreviations and expressions to a drug company that its NDA or biological Standard, as the context requires.
have the following meanings when used in licensing application is not approvable as this Annual Report: IFRS 8 IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The submitting drug company is AbbVie AbbVie Inc. IMED Innovative Medicines and Early required to respond to the Complete Response Letter if it wishes to pursue an approval for Development.
ADC Therapeutics ADC Therapeutics Srl.
ADR an American Depositary Receipt evidencing title to an ADS.
COPD chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
ADS an American Depositary Share Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA Ironwood Ironwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. the agreement described in the US Corporate representing one underlying Ordinary Share.
Integrity Agreement reporting section on Affordable Care Act the Patient Protection page 42.
ISAs International Standards on Auditing.
and Affordable Care Act which was signed CVMD Cardiovascular and metabolic disease.
into law on 23 March 2010 as amended by the IT information technology.
Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act Director a director of the Company.
Janssen Janssen Pharmaceutical K. K. and which was signed into law on 30 March 2010.
DOJ the United States Department of Justice.
AGM an Annual General Meeting of the KPI key performance indicator.
earnings per share EPS profit for the year Company.
after tax and non-controlling interests, divided krona, kronor or SEK references to the AlphaCore AlphaCore Pharma LLC.
by the weighted average number of Ordinary currency of Sweden.
Amgen Amgen, Inc. Shares in issue during the year.
Lean means enhancing value for customers Amplimmune Amplimmune, Inc. EC European Commission.
Amylin Amylin Pharmaceuticals, LLC formerly EFPIA European Federation of Pharmaceutical LTI Long Term Incentive, in the context of Industries and Associations.
Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.. share plan remuneration arrangements.
ANDA an abbreviated new drug application, MAA a marketing authorisation application, which is a marketing approval application for a which is an application for authorisation to place EVP Executive Vice-President.
generic drug submitted to the FDA.
medical products on the market.
This is a EU the European Union.
specific term used in the EU and European Annual Report this Annual Report and Form FDA the US Food and Drug Administration, Economic Area markets.
20-F Information 2013. which is part of the US Department of Health MAb monoclonal antibody, a biologic that is API active pharmaceutical ingredient.
and Human Services Agency, which is the specific, that is, it binds to and attacks one Ardea Ardea Biosciences, Inc. regulatory authority for all pharmaceuticals particular antigen.
including biologics and vaccines and medical Articles the Articles of Association of the MAT Moving Annual Total.
MedImmune MedImmune, LLC formerly FibroGen FibroGen, Inc. Astellas Astellas Pharma Inc. MedImmune, Inc.. Forest Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited.
Astra Astra AB, being the company with Merck Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp. formerly whom the Company merged in 1999.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Merck & Co. Inc.. Principles.
Moderna Therapeutics Moderna GMD Global Medicines Development.
Therapeutics, Inc. AstraZeneca the Company and its subsidiaries.
GPPS Global Product and Portfolio Strategy.
Myriad Genetics Myriad Genetics AZIP AstraZeneca Investment Plan.
gross margin the margin, as a percentage, by Laboratories, Inc. which sales exceed the cost of sales, calculated biologic s a class of drugs that are produced NDA a new drug application to the FDA for by dividing the difference between the two by approval to market a new medicine in the US.
biosimilars a copy of a biologic that is Group AstraZeneca PLC and its subsidiaries.
sufficiently similar to meet regulatory Novartis Novartis Pharma AG.
G7 the US, Japan, France, Germany, Italy, the NYSE the New York Stock Exchange.
Board the Board of Directors of the Company.
Horizon Pharma Horizon Discovery Limited.
Bureau Veritas Bureau Veritas UK Limited.
Omthera Omthera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. HR human resources.
CEO the Chief Executive Officer of the operating profit sales, less cost of sales, less Company.
IA the Groups Internal Audit Services function.
operating costs, plus operating income.
Ordinary Share an ordinary share of CFDA China Food and Drug Administration.
$0.25 each in the share capital of the Company.
CFO the Chief Financial Officer of the IAS 32 IAS 32 Financial Instruments: orphan drug a drug which has been Company.
approved for use in a relatively low-incidence indication an orphan indication and has been CIS Commonwealth of Independent States.
IAS 39 IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
rewarded with a period of market exclusivity: Code of Conduct the Groups Code of the period of exclusivity and the available Conduct.
IASB International Accounting Standards orphan indications vary between markets.
Company or Parent Company AstraZeneca OTC over-the-counter.
PLC formerly Zeneca Group PLC Zeneca.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 233 Additional Information | Glossary Paediatric Exclusivity in the US, a PSP AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
six-month period of exclusivity to market a Qiagen Qiagen Manchester Limited.
drug which is awarded by the FDA in return for R&D research and development.
certain paediatric clinical studies using that drug.
This six-month period runs from the date of Redeemable Preference Share a relevant patent expiry.
Analogous provisions redeemable preference share of 1 each in the are available in certain other territories share capital of the Company.
eg European Supplementary Protection Regulatory Data Protection RDP see the Certificate SPC paediatric extensions.
Intellectual Property section from page 72.
Patent Term Extension PTE an extension Regulatory Exclusivity any of the IP rights of up to five years in the term of a US patent arising from generation of clinical data and relating to a drug which compensates for delays includes Regulatory Data Protection, Paediatric in marketing resulting from the need to obtain Exclusivity and orphan drug status.
The analogous right in the EU is a SPC.
Pearl Therapeutics Pearl Therapeutics, Inc. Sarbanes-Oxley Act the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Pfizer Pfizer, Inc. SEC the US Securities and Exchange Phase I the phase of clinical research where Commission, the governmental agency that a new drug or treatment is tested in small groups regulates the US securities industry stock of people 20 to 80 to check that the drug can markets.
achieve appropriate concentrations in the body, determine a safe dosage range and identify Seroquel franchise Seroquel IR and side effects.
This phase includes healthy Seroquel XR.
Phase II the phase of clinical research SG&A costs selling, general and which includes the controlled clinical activities administrative costs.
conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the drug in patients with the disease under study SHE Safety, Health and Environment.
and to begin to determine the safety profile of the Shionogi Shionogi & Co. Ltd. drug.
Phase II studies are typically conducted in small or medium sized groups of patients and SPC supplementary protection certificate.
can be divided into Phase IIa studies, which tend specialty care specific healthcare provided to be designed to assess dosing requirements, by medical specialists who do not generally have and Phase IIb studies, which tend to assess first contact with patients.
Phase III the phase of clinical research which is performed to gather additional information STI Short Term Incentive, in the context of about effectiveness and safety of the drug, often remuneration arrangements.
in a comparative setting, to evaluate the overall Teva Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. benefit risk profile of the drug.
Phase III studies usually include between several hundred and TSR total shareholder return, being the total several thousand patients.
return on a share over a period of time, including dividends reinvested.
UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and PMDA Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices Northern Ireland.
UK Corporate Governance Code the UK pound sterling, GBP, pence or p Corporate Governance Code published by the references to the currency of the UK.
Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 Pozen POZEN, Inc. that sets out standards of good practice in corporate governance for the UK.
primary care general healthcare provided by physicians who ordinarily have first contact US United States of America.
with patients and who may have continuing US dollar, US$, USD or $ references to the care for them.
Proof of Concept data demonstrating that a WHO World Health Organization, the United candidate drug results in a clinical change on an Nations specialised agency for health.
acceptable endpoint or surrogate in patients with the disease.
234 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013
