At 31 December 2013, the Company had 103,411 registered holders of 1,257,170,087 Ordinary Shares.
There were 109,767 holders of Ordinary Shares held under the Euroclear Services Agreement, representing 11.8% of the issued share capital of the Company and approximately 250,000 holders of ADRs, representing 13.4% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The ADRs, each of which is equivalent to one Ordinary Share, are issued by JPMorgan Chase Bank JPMorgan.
In 1999, in connection with the merger between Astra and Zeneca through which the Company was formed, the Companys share capital was redenominated in US dollars.
On 6 April 1999, Zeneca shares were cancelled and US dollar shares issued, credited as fully paid on the basis of one dollar share for each Zeneca share then held.
This was achieved by a reduction of capital under section 135 of the Companies Act 1985.
Upon the reduction of capital becoming effective, all issued and unissued Zeneca shares were cancelled and the sum arising as a result of the share cancellation credited to a special reserve, which was converted into US dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing on the record date.
This US dollar reserve was then applied in paying up, at par, newly created US dollar shares.
At the same time as the US dollar shares were issued, the Company issued 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares for cash, at par.
The Redeemable Preference Shares carry limited class voting rights, no dividend rights and are capable of redemption, at par, at the option of the Company on the giving of seven days written notice to the registered holder of the Redeemable Preference Shares.
A total of 826 million Ordinary Shares were issued to Astra shareholders who accepted the merger offer before the final closing date, 21 May 1999.
The Company received acceptances from Astra shareholders representing 99.6% of Astras shares and the remaining 0.4% was acquired in 2000, for cash.
Since April 1999, following the merger of Astra and Zeneca, the principal markets for trading in the shares of the Company are the London Stock Exchange LSE, the Stockholm Stock Exchange SSE and the NYSE.
The table below sets out, for 2012 and 2013, the reported high and low share prices of the Company, on the following bases: For shares listed on the LSE, the reported high and low middle market closing quotations are derived from the Daily Official List.
For shares listed on the SSE, the high and low closing sales prices are as stated in the Official List.
For ADSs listed on the NYSE, the reported high and low sales prices are as reported by Dow Jones ADR quotations.
5 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Date of Percentage of Number of disclosure to issued share 1 Shareholder Ordinary Shares Company capital BlackRock, Inc. 100,885,181 8 December 2009 8.01 Invesco Limited 72,776,277 6 October 2009 5.78 Axa SA 56,991,117 3 February 2009 4.52 Investor AB 51,587,810 2 February 2012 4.09 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 37,932,044 23 January 2014 3.01 1 Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of any person listed above in Ordinary Shares may have increased or decreased.
No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level.
The percentage level may increase on the cancellation of shares following a repurchase of shares under the Companys share repurchase programme or decrease on the issue of new shares under any of the Companys share plans.
So far as the Company is aware, no other person held a notifiable interest in the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company.
Changes in the percentage ownership held by major shareholders during the past three years are set out below.
Major shareholders do not have different voting rights.
31 January 31 January 2 February 27 January Shareholder 2014 2013 2012 2011 BlackRock, Inc. 8.01 8.08 7.87 7.18 Invesco Limited 5.78 5.83 5.67 5.18 Axa SA 4.52 4.57 4.44 4.06 Investor AB 4.09 4.13 4.02 3.67 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.00 4.62 4.50 4.10 The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 3.01 3.00 3.00 3.00 ADSs evidenced by ADRs issued by JPMorgan, as depositary, are listed on the NYSE.
At 31 January 2014, the proportion of Ordinary Shares represented by ADSs was 13.25% of the Ordinary Shares outstanding.
Number of registered holders of Ordinary Shares at 31 January 2014: In the US 737 Total 102,633 Number of record holders of ADRs at 31 January 2014: In the US 2,024 Total 2,032 So far as the Company is aware, it is neither directly nor indirectly owned or controlled by one or more corporations or by any government.
The Company does not know of any arrangements, the operation of which might result in a change in the control of the Company.
At 31 January 2014, the total amount of the Companys voting securities owned by Directors and officers of the Company was: Title of class Amount owned Percentage of class Ordinary Shares 443,720 0.04 Related party transactions During the period 1 January 2014 to 31 January 2014, there were no transactions, loans, or proposed transactions between the Company and any related parties which were material to either the Company or the related party, or which were unusual in their nature or conditions see also Note 27 to the Financial Statements on page 184.
Options to purchase securities from registrant or subsidiaries a At 31 January 2014, options outstanding to subscribe for Ordinary Shares were: Number of shares Subscription price pence Normal expiry date 7,251,738 1882 3335 2014 2019 The weighted average subscription price of options outstanding at 31 January 2014 was 2502 pence.
All options were granted under Company employee share schemes.
b Included in paragraph a are options granted to officers of the Company as follows: Number of shares Subscription price pence Normal expiry date 182,324 1882 3335 2016 2019 c At 31 January 2014, none of the Directors of the Company held options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares.
During the period 1 January 2014 to 31 January 2014, no Director exercised any options.
226 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Dividend payments charity number 1052686.
More information investment income, or persons holding For Ordinary Shares listed on the LSE and about the UK tax position on gifts of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in connection the SSE and ADRs listed on the NYSE, the shares to ShareGift can be obtained from with a trade or business conducted record date for the second interim dividend HM Revenue & Customs on their website, outside of the US.
US resident holders for 2013, payable on 24 March 2014, is www.
are urged to consult their tax advisers 21 February 2014 and the ex-dividend date regarding the UK and US federal income The Unclaimed Assets Register is 19 February 2014. tax consequences of the ownership and The Company supplies unclaimed dividend disposition of Ordinary Shares or ADRs The record date for the first interim dividend data to the Unclaimed Assets Register in their particular circumstances.
for 2014, payable on 15 September 2014, is UAR, which provides investors who 15 August 2014. have lost track of shareholdings with an This summary is based in part on opportunity to search the UARs database representations of JPMorgan as depositary Future dividends will normally be paid of unclaimed financial assets on payment for ADRs and assumes that each obligation as follows: of a small fixed fee.
The UAR donates part in the deposit agreement among the First interim: Announced in July and of the search fee to charity.
The UAR can Company, JPMorgan and the holders paid in September.
be contacted on 0870 241 1713 or at from time to time of ADRs and any Second interim: Announced in January PO Box 9501, Nottingham NG80 1WD.
related agreements will be performed in and paid in March.
The US Treasury Results has expressed concerns that parties to Shareview Unaudited trading results of AstraZeneca whom ADSs are released before shares The Companys shareholders with in respect of the first three months of 2014 are delivered to the depositary pre-release, internet access may visit the website, will be published on 24 April 2014 and or intermediaries in the chain of ownership www.
co. uk, and register their results in respect of the first six months of between holders and the issuer of the details to create a portfolio.
Shareview is 2014 will be published on 31 July 2014. security underlying the ADSs, may be a free and secure online service from the Documents on display taking actions that are inconsistent with Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited, The Articles and other documents the claiming, by US holders of ADSs, of which gives access to shareholdings, concerning the Company which are referred foreign tax credits for US federal income including balance movements, indicative to in this Annual Report may be inspected tax purposes.
Such actions would also share prices and information about at the Companys registered office at be inconsistent with the claiming of the recent dividends.
reduced tax rates, described below, ShareGift applicable to dividends received by certain Taxation for US residents The Company welcomes and values all non-corporate US resident holders.
The following summary of material UK and of its shareholders, no matter how many Accordingly, the availability of the reduced US federal income tax consequences of or how few shares they own.
However, tax rates for dividends received by certain ownership of Ordinary Shares or ADRs held shareholders who have only a small number non-corporate US resident holders could as capital assets by the US resident holders of shares whose value makes it uneconomic be affected by actions that may be taken by described below is based on current UK to sell them, either now or at some stage in parties to whom ADRs are pre-released.
and US federal income tax law, including the future, may wish to consider donating the US UK double taxation convention For the purposes of this summary, the term them to charity through ShareGift, an relating to income and capital gains, which US resident holder means a beneficial independent charity share donation entered into force on 31 March 2003 owner of Ordinary Shares or ADRs that scheme.
One feature of the scheme is the Convention.
This summary does not is, for US federal income tax purposes, that there is no gain or loss for UK capital describe all of the tax consequences that a citizen or resident of the US, a corporation gains tax purposes on gifts of shares may be relevant in light of the US resident or other entity taxable as a corporation through ShareGift, and it may now also holders particular circumstances and tax created or organised in or under the laws be possible to obtain UK income tax relief consequences applicable to US resident of the US, any state in the US or the District on the donation.
Further information about holders subject to special rules such as of Columbia, or an estate or trust, the ShareGift can be found on its website, certain financial institutions, entities treated income of which is subject to US federal www.
org, or by contacting as partnerships for US federal income income taxation regardless of its source.
ShareGift on 020 7930 3737 or at tax purposes, persons whose functional 17 Carlton House Terrace, London This summary assumes that we are not, currency for US federal income tax SW1Y 5AH.
ShareGift is administered by and will not become, a passive foreign purposes is not the US dollar, tax-exempt The Orr Mackintosh Foundation, registered investment company, as discussed overleaf.
entities, persons subject to alternative minimum tax, persons subject to the Medicare contribution tax on net AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 227 Additional Information | Shareholder Information UK and US income taxation of their Ordinary Shares or ADRs, unless Certain US resident holders who are of dividends such Ordinary Shares or ADRs are held individuals and under proposed US The UK does not currently impose a in connection with a trade, profession or Treasury regulations, certain entities, withholding tax on dividends paid by vocation carried on in the UK through a may be required to report information a UK company, such as the Company.
branch or agency or other permanent relating to securities issued by non-US establishment.
persons or foreign accounts through which For US federal income tax purposes, the securities are held, generally on IRS distributions paid by the Company to a US A US resident holder will generally recognise Form 8938, subject to certain exceptions resident holder are included in gross income US source capital gains or losses for US including an exception for securities held as foreign source ordinary dividend income federal income tax purposes on the sale or in accounts maintained by US financial to the extent paid out of the Companys exchange of Ordinary Shares or ADRs in an institutions.
US resident holders should current or accumulated earnings and amount equal to the difference between the consult their tax advisers regarding their profits, calculated in accordance with US US dollar amount realised and such holders reporting obligations with respect to the federal income tax principles.
The Company US dollar tax basis in the Ordinary Shares or Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
does not maintain calculations of its earning ADRs.
US resident holders should consult and profits under US federal income tax their own tax advisers about the treatment UK inheritance tax principles and so it is expected that of capital gains, which may be taxed at Under the current Double Taxation Estates distributions generally will be reported to US lower rates than ordinary income for Convention the Estate Tax Convention resident holders as dividends.
The amount non-corporate US resident holders and between the US and the UK, Ordinary of the dividend will be the US dollar amount capital losses, the deductibility of which Shares or ADRs held by an individual received by the depositary for US resident may be subject to limitation.
shareholder who is domiciled for the holders of ADRs or, in the case of Ordinary purposes of the Estate Tax Convention in Passive Foreign Investment Company Shares, the US dollar value of the pound the US, and is not for the purposes of the PFIC rules sterling payments made, determined at the Estate Tax Convention a national of the We believe that we were not a PFIC spot pound sterling US dollar rate on the UK, will generally not be subject to UK for US federal income tax purposes for date the dividend is received by the US inheritance tax on the individuals death or the year ended 31 December 2013. resident holders, regardless of whether the on a chargeable gift of the Ordinary Shares However, since PFIC status depends dividend is converted into US dollars, and it or ADRs during the individuals lifetime, on the composition of our income and will not be eligible for the dividends received provided that any applicable US federal assets, and the market value of our assets deduction generally available to US gift or estate tax liability is paid, unless including, among others, less than 25% corporations.
If the dividend is converted the Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part owned equity investments, from time to into US dollars on the date of receipt, US of the business property of a permanent time, there can be no assurance that we resident holders of Ordinary Shares establishment of the individual in the UK or, will not be considered a PFIC for any generally should not be required to in the case of a shareholder who performs taxable year.
If we were treated as a PFIC recognise foreign currency gains or losses independent personal services, pertain for any taxable year during which Ordinary in respect of the dividend income.
They to a fixed base situated in the UK.
Where Shares or ADRs were held, certain adverse may have foreign currency gain or loss if the the Ordinary Shares or ADRs have been tax consequences could apply to US amount of such dividend is converted into placed in trust by a settlor who, at the resident holders.
US dollars after the date of its receipt.
time of settlement, was a US domiciled Information reporting and backup shareholder, the Ordinary Shares or Subject to applicable limitations and the withholding ADRs will generally not be subject to UK discussion above regarding concerns Payments of dividends and sales proceeds inheritance tax unless the settlor, at the expressed by the US Treasury, dividends that are made within the US or through time of settlement, was a UK national, or received by certain non-corporate US certain US-related financial intermediaries the Ordinary Shares or ADRs are part of resident holders of Ordinary Shares or ADRs may be subject to information reporting the business property of a permanent may be taxable at favourable US federal and backup withholding, unless: i the US establishment of the individual in the UK or, income tax rates.
US resident holders resident holder is a corporation or other in the case of a shareholder who performs should consult their own tax advisers to exempt recipient: or ii in the case of independent personal services, pertain determine whether they are subject to any backup withholding, the US resident holder to a fixed base situated in the UK.
In the special rules which may limit their ability to provides a correct taxpayer identification exceptional case where the Ordinary Shares be taxed at these favourable rates.
number and certifies that it is not subject or ADRs are subject to both UK inheritance Taxation on capital gains to backup withholding.
The amount of any tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the Under present English law, individuals who backup withholding from a payment to Estate Tax Convention generally provides are neither resident nor ordinarily resident in a US resident holder will be allowed as for double taxation to be relieved by means the UK, and companies which are not a credit against the holders US federal of credit relief.
resident in the UK, will not be liable for UK income tax liability and may entitle the tax on capital gains made on the disposal holder to a refund, provided that the required information is timely supplied to the Internal Revenue Service IRS.
228 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information UK stamp duty reserve tax and A transfer of, or an agreement to, transfer Exchange controls and other stamp duty Ordinary Shares will generally be subject limitations affecting security holders A charge to UK stamp duty or UK stamp to UK stamp duty or SDRT at 0.5% of There are no governmental laws, decrees duty reserve tax SDRT may arise on the the amount or value of any consideration, or regulations in the UK restricting the deposit of Ordinary Shares in connection provided, in the case of stamp duty, it is import or export of capital or affecting the with the creation of ADRs.
The rate of stamp rounded to the nearest 5. remittance of dividends, interest or other duty or SDRT will generally be 1.5% of payments to non-resident holders of Transfers of Ordinary Shares into CREST the value of the consideration or, in some Ordinary Shares or ADRs.
will generally not be subject to stamp duty circumstances, the value of the Ordinary or SDRT, unless such a transfer is made for There are no limitations under English law Shares.
There is no 1.5% SDRT charge a consideration in money or moneys worth, or the Articles on the right of non-resident on the issue of Ordinary Shares or, where in which case a liability to SDRT will arise, or foreign owners to be the registered it is integral to the raising of new capital, usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value holders of, or to exercise voting rights in the transfer of Ordinary Shares into the of the consideration.
Paperless transfers relation to, Ordinary Shares or ADRs ADR arrangement.
of Ordinary Shares within CREST are or to be registered holders of notes or No UK stamp duty will be payable on the generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% debentures of Zeneca Wilmington Inc. acquisition or transfer of existing ADRs of the value of the consideration.
provided that any instrument of transfer or is obliged to collect SDRT from the Exchange rates written agreement to transfer is executed purchaser on relevant transactions The following information relating to outside the UK and remains at all times settled within the system.
average and spot exchange rates used by outside the UK.
An agreement for the AstraZeneca is provided for convenience: transfer of ADRs will not give rise to a liability for SDRT.
SEK US$ US$ GBP Average rates statement of comprehensive income, statement of cash flows 2011 6.5059 1.5996 2012 6.7782 1.5834 2013 6.5089 1.5621 End of year spot rates statement of financial position 2011 6.9050 1.5443 2012 6.5176 1.6171 2013 6.4233 1.6502 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 229
