Financial Statements Group Accounting Policies Basis of accounting and preparation The Group has also adopted the management objectives, details of its of financial information amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of financial instruments and hedging activities The Consolidated Financial Statements Items in Other Comprehensive Income and its exposures to credit, market and have been prepared under the historical cost issued in 2011, resulting in a change to liquidity risk.
Further details of the convention, modified to include revaluation thepresentation of items within other Groupscash balances and borrowings to fair value of certain financial instruments comprehensive income.
In addition, effective areincluded in Notes 13 and 14 to the as described below, in accordance with 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted Financial Statements.
the Companies Act 2006 and International IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, The Group has considerable financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 resources available.
As at 31 December asadopted by the EU adopted IFRSs Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities and 2013, the Group has $10.4bn in financial inresponse to the IAS regulation EC IFRS 13 FairValue Measurement, along resources cash balances of $9.2bn and 1606 2002.
The Consolidated Financial with consequential amendments to IAS 27 undrawn committed bank facilities of $3.0bn Statements also comply fully with IFRSs Separate Financial Statements and IAS 28 that are available until April 2018, with only asissued by the International Accounting Investments in Associates and Joint $1.8bn of debt due within one year.
Ventures, amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Groups revenues are largely derived from Instruments: Disclosures on offsetting During the year the Group adopted the sales of products which are covered by financial assets and liabilities and amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits patents which provide a relatively high level amendments to IAS 36 Recoverable Amount issued in 2011.
Under IAS 19 2011, the of resilience and predictability to cash Disclosures for Non-Financial Assets.
Group determines net interest on the net inflows, although our revenue is expected Theadoption of these new standards and retirement benefit obligation by applying the to continue to be significantly impacted amendments has not had a significant discount rate used to measure the retirement bythe expiry of patents over the medium impact on the Groups profit for the period, benefit obligations at the beginning of the term.
In addition, recent government price net assets or cash flows.
annual period, taking account of any changes interventions in response to budgetary in the net retirement benefit obligation constraints are expected to continue to The Company has elected to prepare during the period as a result of contribution adversely affect revenues in many of our theCompany Financial Statements in and benefit payments.
However, we anticipate new accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
thenet charge to finance expense now revenue streams from both recently launched These are presented on pages 188 to 192 comprises interest cost on the defined medicines and products in development, and and the Accounting Policies inrespect benefit obligation and interest income on the Group has a wide diversity of customers ofCompany information are set out on planassets.
Previously, the Group and suppliers across different geographic page189.
determined interest income on plan assets areas.
Consequently, the Directors believe The Consolidated Financial Statements based on their long-term rate of expected that, overall, the Group iswell placed to arepresented in US dollars, which is the return and recorded it as finance income.
As a result of applying the discount rate as After making enquiries, the Directors have detailed above, the net finance expense In preparing their individual Financial a reasonable expectation that the Company has been restated to reflect an increase Statements, the accounting policies of some and the Group have adequate resources of$72m for 2012 and $84m for 2011, overseas subsidiaries do not conform tocontinue in operational existence for withan equal and opposite decrease withIASB issued IFRSs.
Accordingly, they recognised in other comprehensive appropriate, adjustments are made in order continue to adopt the going concern income.
A consequential decrease to the to present the Consolidated Financial basisinpreparing the Annual Report and taxation charge of $15m and $18m for Statements on aconsistent basis.
2012 and 2011 respectively has been Basis for preparation of Financial recorded, with an equal and opposite Estimates and judgements Statements onagoingconcern basis increase recognised in the income tax The preparation of the Financial Statements Information on the business environment recorded within other comprehensive in conformity with generally accepted AstraZeneca operates in, including the income.
Basic earnings per share for 2012 accounting principles requires management factors underpinning the pharmaceutical have been restated from $4.99 to $4.95 to make estimates and judgements that industrys future growth prospects, is 2011: $7.33 to $7.29.
Diluted earnings per affect the reported amounts of assets included in the Strategic Report.
Details share for 2012 have also been restated from andliabilities at the date of the Financial ofthe product portfolio of the Group $4.98 to $4.94 2011: $7.30 to $7.25.
The Statements and the reported amounts of including patent expiry dates for key impact of adopting the amended standard revenues and expenses during the reporting marketed products, our approach to in 2013 is to increase our net interest period.
Actual results could differ from product development and our development charge by approximately $115m along with those estimates.
pipeline are covered in detail with additional consequential impacts as detailed above.
information by Therapy Area inthe Strategic Judgements include matters such as the In addition to these adjustments to our Report and Directors Report.
determination of operating segments while Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive estimates focus on areas such as carrying Income, the Groups net assets for 2012 and The financial position of the Group, its values and estimated useful lives.
2011 have reduced by $6m on adoption of cashflows, liquidity position and borrowing the amendments to IAS 19, as previously facilities are described in the Financial Review AstraZenecas management considers unrecognised past service costs, which were from page 74.
In addition, Note 23 to the thefollowing to be themost important recognised over theremaining service life Financial Statements includes the Groups accounting policies in the context of the of the employees, are now recognised objectives, policies and processes for Groups operations.
managing its capital, its financial risk 136 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The accounting policy descriptions set out Research and development that the impairment is less or no longer exists, the areas where judgements and estimates Research expenditure is recognised in the value of the asset is re-estimated need exercising, the most significant of profit in the year in which it is incurred.
andits carrying value is increased to the which are revenue recognition, research and recoverable amount, but not exceeding Internal development expenditure is development including impairment reviews theoriginal value, by recognising an capitalised only if it meets the recognition of associated intangible assets, business impairment reversal in profit.
criteria of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
combinations and goodwill, litigation and Business combinations and goodwill Whereregulatory and other uncertainties environmental liabilities, employee benefits On the acquisition of a business, fair values are such that the criteria are not met, the and taxation.
are attributed to the identifiable assets and expenditure is recognised in profit and Further information on estimates and liabilities and contingent liabilities unless thisis almost invariably thecase prior to critical judgements made in applying the fair value cannot be measured reliably, approval of the drug by the relevant regulatory accounting policies, including details of in which case the value is subsumed into authority.
Where, however, recognition significant methods and assumptions goodwill.
Where fair values of acquired criteria are met, intangible assets are used, is included in Notes 4, 6, 8, 9, 18, contingent liabilities cannot be measured capitalised and amortised on a straight-line 22and 25 to the Financial Statements.
reliably, the assumed contingent liability is basis over their useful economic lives from Financial risk management policies are not recognised but is disclosed in the product launch.
same manner as other contingent liabilities.
amounts have met recognition criteria.
Revenue Payments to in-licence products and Future contingent elements of consideration Revenues comprise sales and income compounds from third parties for new which may include development and launch under co-promotion and co-development research and development projects milestones, revenue threshold milestones agreements.
in-process research and development, and revenue-based royalties, are fair valued generally taking the form of up front at the date of acquisition using decision-tree Income under co-promotion and copayments and milestones, are capitalised.
analysis with key inputs including probability development agreements is recognised Where payments made to third parties of success, consideration of potential delays when it is earned as defined in the contract represent future research and development and revenue projections based on the and can be reliably estimated.
In general, activities, an evaluation is made as to the Groups internal forecasts.
Unsettled this is upon the sale of the co-promoted nature of the payments.
Such payments are amounts of consideration are held at fair co-developed product or upon the delivery expensed if they represent compensation for value within payables with changes in fair of a promotional or developmental service.
subcontracted research and development value recognised immediately in profit.
Revenues exclude inter-company revenues services not resulting in a transfer of Goodwill is the difference between the and value-added taxes and represent net intellectual property.
By contrast, fairvalue of the consideration and the fair invoice value less estimated rebates, returns paymentsare capitalised if they represent value of net assets acquired.
Revenues are compensation for the transfer of intellectual recognised when the significant risks and property developed at the risk of the third Goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised rewards of ownership have been transferred party.
Since acquired products and and subject to an impairment review, both to a third party.
In general, this is upon compounds will only generate sales and annually and when there is an indication that delivery of the products to wholesalers.
cash inflows following launch, our policy is the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Inmarkets where returns are significant to minimise the period between final approval Between 1 January 1998 and 31 December currently only in the US, estimates of returns and launch if it is within AstraZenecas 2002, goodwill was amortised over its are accounted for at the point revenue is control to do so.
Assets capitalised are estimated useful life: such amortisation recognised.
In markets where returns are not amortised, on a straight-line basis, over ceased on 31 December 2002. significant, they are recorded when returned.
their useful economic lives from product The Groups policy up to and including 1997 launch.
Under this policy, it is not possible For the US market, we estimate the quantity was to eliminate goodwill arising upon to determine precise economic lives for and value of goods which may ultimately acquisitions against reserves.
Under IFRS 1 individual classes of intangible assets.
be returned at the point of sale.
Our returns First-time Adoption of International Financial However, lives do not exceed 20 years.
accruals are based on actual experience Reporting Standards and IFRS 3 Business over the preceding 12months for established Intangible assets relating to products in Combinations, such goodwill will remain products together with market-related development both internally generated eliminated against reserves.
information such as estimated stock levels at andexternally acquired are subject to Joint arrangements wholesalers and competitor activity which we impairment testing annually.
All intangible The Group has arrangements over which it receive via third party information services.
assets are tested for impairment when has joint control and which qualify as joint For newly launched products, we use there are indications that the carrying value arrangements under IFRS 11.
The form of ratesbased on our experience with similar may not be recoverable.
Any impairment these arrangements are joint operations.
losses are recognised immediately in profit.
The Group recognises its share of revenue Intangible assets relating to products When a product faces generic competition, that it earns from the joint operations and whichfail during development or for which particular attention isgiven to the possible its share of expenses incurred.
The Group development ceases for other reasons levels of returns and, in cases where the also recognises the assets associated aretested for impairment at the point of circumstances are such that the level of withthe joint operations that it controls termination and are written down to their returns and, hence, revenue cannot be andthe liabilities it incurs under the joint recoverable amount which is usually zero.
measured reliably, revenues are only arrangement collaboration agreements.
recognised when the right of return expires, If, subsequent to an impairment loss being which is generally on ultimate prescription recognised, development restarts or other of the product to patients.
facts and circumstances change indicating AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 137 Financial Statements |Group Accounting Policies Employee benefits Accruals for tax contingencies require Leases As detailed in the Basis of accounting and management to make judgements and Leases are classified as finance leases if preparation of financial information section, estimates of exposures in relation to tax they transfer substantially all the risks and the Group accounts for pensions and other audit issues.
Tax benefits are not recognised rewards incidental to ownership, otherwise employee benefits principally healthcare unless the tax positions will probably be they are classified as operating leases.
Once considered to be probable, Assets and liabilities arising on finance benefit plans, obligations are measured at management reviews each material tax leases are initially recognised at fair value or, discounted present value while plan assets benefit to assess whether a provision if lower, the present value of the minimum are measured at fair value.
Theoperating should be taken against full recognition lease payments.
The discount rate used in and financing costs of such plans are ofthat benefit on the basis of potential calculating the present value of the minimum recognised separately in profit: current settlement through negotiation and or lease payments is the interest rate implicit service costs are spread systematically litigation.
All provisions are included in in the lease.
Finance charges under finance over the lives of employees and financing current liabilities.
Any liability to interest leases are allocated to each reporting period costs are recognised in full in the periods ontax liabilities is provided for in the tax so as to produce a constant periodic rate inwhich they arise.
See Note 25 to the Financial of interest on the remaining balance of the the net defined pension liability, including Statements for further details.
Rentals under operating actuarial gains and losses, are recognised leases are charged to profit on a straightShare-based payments immediately in other comprehensive income.
All plans are assessed and have been Where the calculation results in a surplus to Subsidiaries classified as equity settled.
The grant date the Group, the recognised asset is limited A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly fair value of employee share plan awards is to the present value of any available future or indirectly, by AstraZeneca PLC.
Control calculated using a modified version of the refunds from the plan or reductions in is regarded as the exposure or rights to the binomial model.
In accordance with IFRS 2 future contributions to the plan.
Payments variable returns of the entity when combined Share-based Payment, the resulting cost is to defined contribution plans are recognised with the power to affect those returns.
recognised in profit over the vesting period in profit as they fall due.
of the awards, being the period in which the The financial results of subsidiaries are services are received.
The value of the charge Taxation consolidated from the date control is is adjusted to reflect expected and actual The current tax payable is based on taxable obtained until the date that control ceases.
levels of awards vesting, except where the profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs Inventories failure to vest is as a result of not meeting fromreported profit because taxable profit Inventories are stated at the lower of cost amarket condition.
Cancellations of equity excludes items that are either never taxable instruments are treated as an acceleration and net realisable value.
The first in, first out or tax deductible or items that are taxable of the vesting period and any outstanding or an average method of valuation is used.
or tax deductible in a different period.
charge is recognised in profit immediately.
Forfinished goods and work in progress, TheGroups current tax assets and liabilities cost includes directly attributable costs are calculated using tax rates that have been Property, plant and equipment and certain overhead expenses including enacted or substantively enacted by the The Groups policy is to write off the depreciation.
Selling expenses and certain reporting date.
difference between the cost of each item other overhead expenses principally central ofproperty, plant and equipment and its Deferred tax is provided using the balance administration costs are excluded.
Net residual value over its estimated useful life sheet liability method, providing for temporary realisable value is determined as estimated on a straight-line basis.
Assets under differences between the carrying amounts selling price less all estimated costs of construction are not depreciated.
of assets and liabilities for financial reporting completion and costs to be incurred in purposes and the amounts used for taxation Reviews are made annually of the estimated selling and distribution.
Deferred tax assets are recognised remaining lives and residual values of Write-downs of inventory occur in the general to the extent that it is probable that taxable individual productive assets, taking course of business and are recognised in profit will be available against which the asset account of commercial and technological cost of sales.
This requires judgements obsolescence as well as normal wear and to be made in respect of the availability of tear.
Under this policy it becomes impractical Trade and other receivables future taxable income.
to calculate average asset lives exactly.
Financial assets included in trade and other However, the total lives range from receivables are recognised initially at fair No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised approximately 10 to 50 years for buildings, value.
Subsequent to initial recognition they in respect of temporary differences and three to 15 years for plant and are measured at amortised cost using the associated with investments in subsidiaries equipment.
All items of property, plant and effective interest rate method, less any and branches where the Group is able to equipment are tested for impairment when impairment losses.
control the timing ofreversal of the temporary there are indications that the carrying value differences and it is probable that the Trade and other payables may not be recoverable.
Any impairment temporary differences will not reverse in Financial liabilities included in trade and losses are recognised immediately in profit.
other payables are recognised initially at Borrowing costs fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition The Groups deferred tax assets and The Group has no borrowing costs with they are measured at amortised cost using liabilities are calculated using tax rates that respect to the acquisition or construction the effective interest rate method.
are expected to apply in the period when the of qualifying assets.
All other borrowing liability is settled or the asset realised based costs are recognised in profit as incurred on tax rates that have been enacted or and in accordance with the effective interest substantively enacted by the reporting date.
138 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Financial instruments Bank and other borrowings Non-monetary items arising from The Groups financial instruments The Group uses derivatives, principally foreigncurrency transactions are not includeinterests in leases, trade and interest rate swaps, to hedge the interest retranslatedin the individual Group entitys otherreceivables and payables, and rights rate exposure inherent in a portion of its accountingrecords.
and obligations under employee benefit fixed interest rate debt.
In such cases the In the Consolidated Financial Statements, plans which are dealt with in specific Group will either designate the debt as fair income and expense items for Group entities accounting policies.
value through profit or loss when certain with a functional currency other than US criteria are met or as the hedged item The Groups other financial dollars are translated into US dollars at under a fair value hedge.
instrumentsinclude: average exchange rates, which approximate to actual rates, for the relevant accounting If the debt instrument is designated as cash and cash equivalents periods.
Assets and liabilities are translated fairvalue through profit or loss, the debt is fixed deposits at the US exchange rates prevailing at initially measured at fair value with direct other investments thereporting date.
Exchange differences transaction costs being included in profit bank and other borrowings arising on consolidation are recognised in as an expense and is remeasured to fair derivatives.
value at each reporting date with changes Cash and cash equivalents in carrying value being recognised in profit If certain criteria are met, non-US dollar Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash along with changes in the fair value of the denominated loans or derivatives are in hand, current balances with banks and related derivative.
Such a designation has designated as net investment hedges of similar institutions and highly liquid been made where this significantly reduces foreign operations.
Exchange differences investments with maturities of three months an accounting mismatch which would result arising on retranslation of net investments, or less when acquired.
They are readily from recognising gains and losses on and of foreign currency loans which are convertible into known amounts of cash different bases.
designated in an effective net investment and are held at amortised cost.
If the debt is designated as the hedged item hedge relationship, are recognised in other Fixed deposits under a fair value hedge, the debt is initially comprehensive income in the Consolidated Fixed deposits, principally comprising measured at fair value with direct transaction Financial Statements.
Foreign exchange funds held with banks and other financial costs being amortised over the life of the derivatives hedging net investments in institutions, are initially measured at fair bonds, and is remeasured for fair value foreign operations are carried at fair value.
value, plus direct transaction costs, and changes in respect of the hedged risk Effective fair value movements are recognised are subsequently remeasured to amortised ateach reporting date with changes in in other comprehensive income, with cost using the effective interest rate method carrying value being recognised in profit anyineffectiveness taken to the income at each reporting date.
Changes in carrying along with changes in the fair value of the statement.
Gains and losses accumulated value are recognised in profit.
in the translation reserve will be recycled to profit when the foreign operation is sold.
Other investments Other interest-bearing loans are initially Where investments have been classified as measured at fair value with direct transaction Litigation and environmental liabilities held for trading, they are measured initially costs being amortised over the life of the Through the normal course of business, at fair value and subsequently remeasured bond and are subsequently remeasured to AstraZeneca is involved in legal disputes, to fair value at each reporting date.
Changes amortised cost using the effective interest the settlement of which may involve cost in fair value are recognised in profit.
rate method at each reporting date.
Provision is made where an in carrying value are recognised in profit.
adverse outcome is probable and associated In all other circumstances, the investments costs, including related legal costs, can be are classified as available for sale, initially Derivatives estimated reliably.
In other cases, appropriate measured at fair value including direct Derivatives are initially measured at fair disclosures are included.
transaction costs and subsequently value with direct transaction costs being remeasured to fair value at each reporting included in profit as an expense and are Where it is considered that the Group is date.
Changes in carrying value due to subsequently remeasured to fair value at more likely than not to prevail, or in the rare changes in exchange rates on monetary each reporting date.
Changes in carrying circumstances where the amount of the available for sale investments or impairments value are recognised in profit.
legalliability cannot be estimated reliably, are recognised in profit.
All other changes legal costs involved in defending the claim Foreign currencies in fair value are recognised in other are charged to profit as they are incurred.
Foreign currency transactions, being comprehensive income.
transactions denominated in a currency Where it is considered that the Group has Impairments are recorded in profit when there other than an individual Group entitys a valid contract which provides the right to is a decline in the value of an investment functional currency, are translated into the reimbursement from insurance or otherwise that is deemed to be other than temporary.
relevant functional currencies of individual of legal costs and or all or part of any loss On disposal of the investment, the cumulative Group entities at average rates for the incurred or for which a provision has been amount recognised in other comprehensive relevant monthly accounting periods, established, the best estimate of the amount income is recognised in profit as part of the whichapproximate to actual rates.
expected to be received is recognised as gain or loss on disposal.
an asset only when it is virtually certain.
Monetary assets, arising from foreign currency transactions, are retranslated at AstraZeneca is exposed to environmental exchange rates prevailing at the reporting liabilities relating to its past operations, date.
Exchange gains and losses on loans principally in respect of soil and groundwater and on short-term foreign currency remediation costs.
Provisions for these costs borrowings and deposits are included within are made when there is a present obligation finance expense.
Exchange differences on and where it is probable that expenditure all other foreign currency transactions are on remedial work will be required and a recognised in operating profit in the individual reliable estimate can be made of the cost.
Provisions are discounted where the effect is material.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013 139 Financial Statements |Group Accounting Policies Impairment Applicable accounting standards The carrying values of non-financial assets, andinterpretations issued but not other than inventories and deferred tax yetadopted assets, are reviewed at least annually to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was reissued determine whether there is any indication of in October 2010 and amended in November impairment.
It is applicable to financial assets and under development and for any other assets financial liabilities.
For financial assets it where such indication exists, the assets requires classification and measurement recoverable amount is estimated based ineither the amortised cost or the fair value onthe greater of its value in use and its fair category.
For a companys own debt held value less cost to sell.
In assessing value at fair value, the standard requires the inuse, the estimated future cash flows, movement in the fair value as a result of adjusted for the risks specific to each changes in the companys own credit risk to asset, are discounted to their present value be included in other comprehensive income.
using a discount rate that reflects current Under the amendment issued in November market assessments of the time value of 2013 there is no mandatory effective date money and the general risks affecting the of IFRS 9.
The standard has not yet been pharmaceutical industry.
For the purpose endorsed by the EU.
The adoption of IFRS 9 of impairment testing, assets are grouped is not expected to have a significant impact together into the smallest group of assets upon the Groups net results or net assets.
that generates cash inflows from continuing The amendments to IAS 32, on offsetting use that are largely independent of the cash financial assets and liabilities and IAS 39, flows of other assets.
Impairment losses are on novation of derivatives and continuation recognised immediately in profit.
of hedge accounting, are effective for International accounting transition accounting periods beginning on or after On transition to using adopted IFRSs in 1January 2014.
IFRIC Interpretation 21 the year ended 31 December 2005, the Levies is also effective for periods beginning Group took advantage of several optional on or after 1 January 2014.
The amendments exemptions available in IFRS 1 First-time to IAS 19, employee contributions, is effective Adoption of International Financial Reporting for the period beginning on or after 1 July Standards.
The major impacts which are 2014.
None of the amendments or the of continuing importance are detailed below: interpretation are expected to have a significant impact upon the Groups net Business combinations IFRS 3 Business results, net assets or disclosures.
The Combinations has been applied amendment to IAS 32 was endorsed by from1January 2003, the date of the EU in 2012 and the amendment to transition, rather than being applied fully IAS39 was endorsed by the EU in 2013. retrospectively.
As a result, the combination The amendments to IAS 19 and IFRIC of Astra and Zeneca is still accounted for Interpretation 21 have yet to be endorsed as a merger, rather than through purchase by the EU.
If purchase accounting had been adopted, Zeneca would have been deemed to have acquired Astra.
Cumulative exchange differences theGroup chose to set the cumulative exchange difference reserve at 1January 2003 to zero.
140 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2013
