Basis of Preparation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies a Basis of preparation Basis of accounting The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis modified by the revaluation of financial assets and derivatives held at fair value.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB, as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS, and in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Financial Statements set out on pages 76 to 121 have been prepared using consistent accounting policies, except for the adoption of new accounting standards and interpretations noted below.
No revisions to adopted IFRS that became applicable in 2013 had a significant impact on the Group Financial Statements.
These Financial Statements are presented in millions of Sterling rounded to the nearest one decimal place.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements set out the Groups financial position as at 31 December 2013 and the Groups financial performance for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains except that they are only eliminated to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and financial position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 39.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 36 to 39.
In addition, Note 2 to the Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups net debt balance at 31 December 2013 was 104.1m 2012: 254.1m, with available undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 311.0m 2012: 184.6m.
The Board has reviewed sensitivity analysis on the Groups forecasts to 30 June 2015, the maturity profile of its financial facilities and liabilities Notes 18 and 19 and the ability of the Group to refinance these obligations as they fall due.
The principal liquidity and solvency risk is mitigated through its financial risk management policies Note 2.
For the foreseeable future, the Board has a high level of confidence that the Group will have the necessary liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due and will be able to sustain its business model, strategy and operations and remain solvent, including the impact of reasonable scenarios.
For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Group Financial Statements.
There are no key sensitivities identified in relation to this conclusion.
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted There are a number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that are not yet effective for the year ended 31December 2013 and have, therefore, not been applied in preparing these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Except for those below, none of these are anticipated to have a significant impact on the results or Consolidated Statement of Financial Position reported in these Consolidated Financial Statements.
Change in accounting policies Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits: the principal change is that the financing on post-retirement benefits is calculated on the net surplus or deficit using an AA corporate bond rate.
In addition, it will not be permissible to recognise administrative expenses relating directly to the administration of defined benefit pension schemes as a deduction to the expected return on scheme assets within net finance costs, with the costs instead being recognised as administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Basis of Preparation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued The following tables summarise the effect of the adoption of IAS 19 Revised on the Groups Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 December 2012.
2012 Impact on Consolidated Income Statement m Administrative expenses 0.5 Finance income 1.0 Tax credit 0.4 Overall decrease in profit after tax for the year 1.1 2012 Impact on Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income m Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Parent Company 1.1 Re-measurement of the defined benefit liability asset, net of foreign exchange 2.7 Tax charge on items that will not be reclassified to income statement 0.5 Overall increase in other comprehensive income 1.1 2012 Impact on Consolidated Statement of Financial Position m Deferred tax asset 0.1 Retirement benefit obligations 0.6 Overall increase in retained earnings 0.5 2012 Impact on Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows m Profit after tax 1.1 Tax credit 0.4 Financial income 1.0 Increase in provisions and employee benefits 0.5 Overall impact on cash flow If IAS 19 Revised had not been adopted, the impact on the results for 2013 would have been an increase in profit after tax for the year of 1.3m with the corresponding reduction in other comprehensive income.
Basic and diluted earnings per share for 2013 would have been 1.1pence higher.
New standards adopted during the year The Group has adopted IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement as of 1 January 2013, which replaces and expands the disclosure requirements about fair value measurements in other IFRSs, including IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
As a result of the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements in relation to the presentation of items of other comprehensive income, the Group has modified the presentation of its Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, to present separately items that would be reclassified to the Consolidated Income Statement in the future from those that would never be.
Comparative information has also been re-presented accordingly.
The adoption of IFRS 13 and the amendment to IAS 1 has had no impact on the income statement, recognised assets, liabilities and comprehensive income of the Group.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates In preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, management has made judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of the Groups accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis and are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 82 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 83 1.
Basis of Preparation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Information about significant areas of judgements, estimates and assumptions is included in the following notes: Note 8 Defined benefit pension obligations.
The defined benefit pension obligations are calculated using a number of assumptions, including future inflation, salary increases and mortality, and the obligation is then discounted to its present value using an assumed discount rate.
The pension deficit has been calculated using the assumptions set out in Note 8: Note 13 Impairment of goodwill.
The carrying amount of goodwill has been tested for impairment by estimating the value in use of the cashgenerating units to which it has been allocated.
Note 13 outlines the significant assumptions made in performing the impairment tests: Note 15 Provisions against inventory.
Judgement is applied to assess the level of provisions required to write down slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory to their net realisable value: Note 16 Provisions for impairment of trade receivables.
Judgement is applied to assess whether a trade receivable is recoverable or not, and whether the level of provision required to write down the value of the receivable to its recoverable amount is appropriate: Notes 21 and 28 Provisions and contingent liabilities in relation to determining the risk-adjusted probability, quantum and timing of managements best estimate of future payments: Note 22 Deferred tax.
The recognition of deferred tax assets is dependent on assessments of future taxable income in the relevant countries concerned: and Note 27 Business combinations in relation to the determination of the provisional fair value of acquired assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
b Summary of significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently by Group entities to all years presented in these Financial Statements.
Business combinations and goodwill The Group applies IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations for transactions arising after 1 January 2010.
This changed the Groups definition of the cost of business combinations and the treatment of contingent consideration.
The subsequent accounting for contingent consideration depends on whether this was initially recognised as equity or as a liability and whether the event is considered a measurement period adjustment.
Transaction costs on a business combination are expensed as incurred in the Consolidated Income Statement.
For transactions relating to acquisitions before 1 January 2010, subsequent adjustments to contingent consideration are made against goodwill, and the transaction costs on a business combination were included in the cost of acquisition and thus capitalised.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the acquisition method.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration for the interests in subsidiary undertakings over the net fair value to the Group of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a business is tested annually for impairment.
Goodwill is not amortised, and any impairment losses are not subsequently reversed.
The net book value of goodwill at the date of transition to IFRS has been treated as deemed cost.
On the subsequent disposal or discontinuance of a previously acquired business, the relevant goodwill is dealt with in the Consolidated Income Statement except for the goodwill already charged to reserves.
From 1 January 2004, goodwill is allocated on acquisition to cash-generating units that are anticipated to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill is tested for impairment by assessing the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the goodwill relates and comparing it against the net book value.
This estimate of recoverable amount is determined at each statement of financial position date.
The Groups identified cash-generating units are smaller than the reportable operating segments in Note 4.
The estimate of recoverable amount requires significant assumptions to be made and is based on a number of factors such as the nearterm business outlook for the cash-generating unit, including both its operating profit and operating cash flow performance.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Intangible assets and amortisation The cost of acquiring software including associated implementation costs where applicable that is not specific to an item of property, plant and equipment is classified as an intangible asset.
Self-funded research and development costs are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in the year in which they are incurred unless development expenditure meets certain strict criteria for capitalisation.
These criteria include demonstration of the technical feasibility and intent of completing a new intangible asset that will be available for sale and that the asset will generate probable future economic benefits.
From the point where expenditure meets the criteria, development costs are capitalised and amortised over their useful economic lives.
TheDirectors consider that, due to the nature of projects undertaken, the proportion of development costs incurred that meets the criteria for capitalisation is immaterial.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 84 Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Basis of Preparation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Intangible assets arising from a business combination that are separable from goodwill are recognised initially at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Other acquired intangible assets including software not specific to an item of property, plant and equipment are initially recognised at cost plus any associated implementation costs where applicable.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits, otherwise it is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to administration expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the estimated useful economic life determined on an asset by asset basis or underlying contractual life.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Software 3 to 5 years.
Patents, contractual rights and technology up to 10 years, dependent upon the nature of the underlying contractual right.
Customer-related and trade names 3 to 20 years, dependent upon the underlying contractual arrangements and specific circumstances such as customer retention experience.
Property, plant and equipment and depreciation Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
The cost comprises the purchase price paid and any costs directly attributable to bringing it into working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less the estimated residual value which is reviewed annually, of property, plant and equipment over its estimated useful economic life.
Depreciation commences on the date the assets are ready for use within the business and the asset carrying values are reviewed for impairment when there is an indication that they may be impaired.
The depreciation charge is revised where useful lives are different from those previously estimated, or where technically obsolete assets are required to be written down.
Where parts of an item of plant and equipment have separate lives, they are accounted for and depreciated as separate items.
Estimated useful lives are as follows: Freehold and long leasehold property 20 to 40 years.
Short leasehold property over the period of the lease.
Plant and equipment 3 to 20 years.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets that take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective asset.
Assets and liabilities held for sale Assets, liabilities and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation is charged in respect of assets classified as held for sale.
Assets, liabilities and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the sale must have been initiated.
Ordinarily, the sale should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of the classification as held for sale.
Inventories Inventories and work in progress are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Inventory acquired as part of business combinations is valued at fair value less cost to sell.
Cost represents direct costs incurred and, where appropriate, production or conversion costs and other costs to bring the inventory to its existing location and condition.
In the case of manufacturing inventory and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Inventory is accounted for on a first-in, first-out basis or, in some cases, a weighted average basis is used if deemed more appropriate for the business.
Provisions are made to write down slow-moving and obsolete items to net realisable value, based on an assessment of technological and market developments and on an analysis of historic and projected usage with regard to quantities on hand.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 84 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 85 1.
Basis of Preparation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are carried at original invoice amount which is considered a reasonable proxy for fair value, less provision made for impairment of these receivables.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the original carrying amount and the recoverable amount, being the present value of expected cash flows receivable.
Theamount of the provision is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits held on call or with maturities of less than three months at inception.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash equivalents for the purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are carried at the amounts expected to be paid to counterparties.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources, that can be reliably measured, will be required to settle the obligation.
In respect of warranties, a provision is recognised when the underlying products or services are sold.
Provisions are recognised at an amount equal to the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups liability.
A contingent liability is disclosed where the existence of the obligation will only be confirmed by future events or where the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with reasonable reliability.
Contingent assets are not recognised, but are disclosed where an inflow of economic benefit is probable.
Obligations arising from restructuring plans are recognised when detailed formal plans have been established and when there is a valid expectation that such a plan will be carried out.
Leasing Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the leaseterm.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises both current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case tax is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income or the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, respectively.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustments to tax payable in respect of prior years.
Deferred taxation is provided on taxable temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial Statements and their corresponding tax bases.
No provision is made for deferred tax which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits by overseas subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability settled based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
However, deferred tax is not provided on the initial recognition of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability unless the related transaction is a business combination or affects tax or accounting profit.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised or that they will reverse.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of intra-group dividends are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Basis of Preparation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Foreign currency translation The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined with reference to the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Exchange gains and losses on settlement of foreign currency transactions are translated at the rate prevailing at the date of the transactions, or the translation of monetary assets and liabilities at period end exchange rates, and taken to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at historical cost are translated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
On consolidation, income statements of subsidiaries are translated into Sterling, at average rates of exchange.
Statement of financial position items are translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the retranslation are taken to the translation reserve within equity.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings designated as a hedge of the net investment in a foreign operation are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
All other exchange differences are charged or credited to the Consolidated Income Statement in the year in which they arise.
On disposal of an overseas subsidiary, any cumulative exchange movements relating to that subsidiary held in the translation reserve are transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments may be purchased to hedge the Groups exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates.
The accounting policies applied in these circumstances are described below.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at the fair value of consideration received less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are measured at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Financial instruments Recognition The Group recognises financial assets and liabilities on its Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Measurement When financial assets and liabilities are initially recognised, they are measured at fair value, being the consideration given or received plus directly attributable transaction costs.
In determining estimated fair value, investments are valued at quoted bid prices on the trade date.
When quoted prices on an active market are not available, fair value is determined by reference to price quotations for similar instruments traded.
Loans and receivables comprise loans and advances other than purchased loans.
Originated loans and receivables are initially recognised in accordance with the policy stated above and subsequently re-measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Allowance for impairment is estimated on a case-by-case basis.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge risks associated with foreign exchange fluctuations.
These are designated as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an on-going basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged item.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
Thegain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in the Consolidated Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, in the same line of the Consolidated Income Statement as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 86 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 1.
Basis of Preparation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in the Consolidated IncomeStatement.
Derecognition A financial asset is derecognised when the Group loses control over the contractual rights that comprise that asset.
This occurs when the rights are realised, expire or are surrendered.
A financial liability is derecognised when it is extinguished.
Originated loans and receivables are derecognised on the date they are transferred by the Group.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each Consolidated Statement of Financial Position reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset, or group of financial assets, is impaired.
A financial asset, or group of financial assets, is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset an incurred loss event and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Net investment hedge accounting The Group uses US Dollar and Euro-denominated borrowings and derivative financial instruments as a hedge against the translation exposure on the Groups net investment in overseas companies.
Where the hedge is fully effective at hedging the variability in the net assets of such companies caused by changes in foreign exchange rates, the changes in value of the borrowings are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The ineffective part of any change in value caused by changes in foreign exchange rates is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Employee benefits The Group operates defined benefit post-retirement benefit schemes and defined contribution pension schemes.
Defined benefit plans The Groups net obligation recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in respect of defined benefit schemes is calculated separately for each plan as the present value of schemes liabilities less the fair value of schemes assets.
The operating and financing costs of defined benefit schemes are recognised separately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Operating costs comprise the current service cost, scheme administrative expense, any gains or losses on settlement or curtailments, and past service costs where benefits have vested.
Finance items comprise the unwinding of the discount on net asset deficit.
Actuarial gains or losses comprising changes in schemes liabilities due to experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The amount of any pension fund asset recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is limited to any future refunds from the plan or the present value of reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Defined contribution scheme A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.
In certain countries, the Group participates in industry-wide defined benefit-type pension arrangements.
In such circumstances, it is not possible to determine the amount of any surplus or deficit attributable to the Group and the pension costs are accounted for as if the arrangements were defined contribution schemes.
These are not material to the Group and, accordingly, no additional disclosures are provided.
Short-term benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
Aliability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee, and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Share-based payments Certain employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured at fair value at the date at which they are granted.
The fair value of share awards with market-related vesting conditions is Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 1.
Basis of Preparation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued determined by an external consultant and the fair value at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The estimate of the number of awards likely to vest is reviewed at each Consolidated Statement of Financial Position reporting date up to the vesting date, at which point the estimate is adjusted to reflect the actual outcome of awards which have vested.
No adjustment is made to the fair value after the vesting date even if the awards are forfeited or notexercised.
Where it is not possible to incentivise managers of the Groups operating companies with equity-settled options, they are issued with cashsettled options.
The charge for these awards is adjusted to reflect the expected and actual levels of options that vest and the fair value is based on either the share price at date of exercise or the share price at the statement of financial position date if sooner.
Own shares Own equity instruments which are re-acquired own shares are recognised at cost and deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Any difference between the carrying amount and the consideration paid to acquire such equity instruments is recognised within equity.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved by shareholders.
Revenues Revenues comprise sales to external customers after discounts and excluding Value Added Tax and similar sales taxes.
Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement when the significant risk and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the customer, which is typically on delivery.
For contracts that involve a significant element of installation or testing of equipment, revenue is recognised at the point of customer acceptance.
Revenue from services rendered is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in proportion to the measurement of the stage of completion of services rendered as at the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position date.
This is assessed by reference to the amount of time incurred in proportion to the total expected time to be taken to deliver the service.
Occasionally, the initial contract covers both the supply of goods and on-going support, servicing and maintenance.
For such contracts revenue is allocated across the components in line with their relative value and each element is accounted for as described above.
Interest payable and receivable Interest payable comprises the interest payable on borrowings calculated using the effective interest method.
Interest receivable comprises interest income on cash and funds invested and is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement as it accrues.
Financial Risk Management The Groups multinational operations and debt financing expose it to a variety of financial risks.
In the course of its business, the Group is exposed to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, and credit risk.
Financial risk management is an integral part of the way the Group is managed.
Financial risk management policies are set by the Board of Directors.
These policies are implemented by a central treasury department that has formal procedures to manage foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, and liquidity risk, including, where appropriate, the use of derivative financial instruments.
The Group has clearly defined authority and approval limits.
The central treasury department operates as a service centre to the Group and not as a profit centre.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not hold or use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
Suchinstruments are only used to manage the risks arising from operating or financial assets or liabilities or highly probable future transactions.
The quantitative analysis of financial risk is included in Note 19.
Foreign currency risk Foreign currency risk arises both where sale or purchase transactions are undertaken in currencies other than the respective functional currencies of Group companies transactional exposures and where the results of overseas companies are consolidated into the Groups reporting currency of Sterling translational exposures.
The Group has operations around the world which record their results in a variety of different local functional currencies.
In countries where the Group does not have operations, it invariably has some customers or suppliers that transact in a foreign currency.
The Group is therefore exposed to the changes in foreign currency exchange rates between a number of different currencies but the Groups primary exposures relate to the US Dollar, Euro, Danish Krone, Swiss Franc and Japanese Yen.
Where appropriate, the Group manages its foreign currency exposures using derivative financial instruments.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 88 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 2.
Financial Risk Management continued The Group manages its transactional exposures to foreign currency risks through the use of forward exchange contracts.
Forward exchange contracts are used to hedge highly probable transactions which can be forecast to occur typically up to 18 months into thefuture.
The Groups translational exposures to foreign currency risks can relate both to the Consolidated Income Statement and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The Groups policy is not to hedge the translational exposure that arises on consolidation of the Consolidated Income Statement of overseas subsidiaries.
The Group finances overseas company investments partly through the use of foreign currency borrowings in order to provide a natural hedge of foreign currency risk arising on translation of the Groups foreign currency subsidiaries.
The quantitative analysis of foreign currency risk is included in Note 19.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk comprises both the interest rate price risk that results from borrowing at fixed rates of interest and also the interest cash flow risk that results from borrowing at variable rates.
Where appropriate, interest rate swaps are used to manage the Groups interest rate profile.
As at 31 December 2013, the majority of the Groups borrowings attract fixed rates of interest linked to LIBOR and therefore the Groups principal interest rate risk is a fair value risk.
Quantitative analysis of interest rate risk is included in Note 19.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk represents the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing this risk is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group manages this risk through the use of regularly updated cash flow and covenant compliance forecasts and a liquidity headroom analysis which is used to determine funding requirements.
Adequate committed lines of funding are maintained from high quality investment grade lenders.
Thefacilities committed to the Group as at 31 December 2013 are set out in Note 18. Credit risk Credit risk arises because a counterparty may fail to perform its obligations.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on financial assets such as cash balances, derivative financial instruments, trade and other receivables.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are net of appropriate allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Trade receivables are subject to credit limits and control and approval procedures in the operating companies.
Due to its large geographic base and number of customers, the Group is not exposed to material concentrations of credit risk on its trade receivables.
The quantitative analysis of credit risk to receivables is included in Note 16. Credit risk associated with cash balances and derivative financial instruments is managed centrally by transacting with an existing relationship bank with a strong investment grade rating.
Accordingly, the Groups associated credit risk is limited.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative financial instruments, as shown in Note 19.
Capital management The Board considers equity shareholders funds, together with committed debt facilities, as capital for the purposes of funding the Groups operations.
Total managed capital at 31 December is: 2013 2012 m m Equity shareholders funds page 79 844.1 691.6 Committed debt facilities 456.7 478.5 1,300.8 1,170.1 Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain the future development of the business.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
The Board encourages employees to hold shares in the Company.
This is carried out through a Save As You Earn option scheme in the UK, as well as performance share plans.
Full details of these schemes are given in Note 24.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 2.
Financial Risk Management continued The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the higher returns that might be possible with higher levels of borrowings, the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position, and the benefits of an implied investment grade credit rating.
The main financial covenants in the Companys debt facilities are the ratio of net debt to adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and the ratio of finance charges to adjusted earnings before interest, tax and amortisation.
Covenant testing is completed twice a year based on the half-year and year-end Financial Statements.
At 31 December 2013, the Company had, and is expected to continue to have, significant headroom under these financial covenant ratios.
From time to time the Group purchases its own shares in the market: the timing of these purchases depends on market prices.
Buy and sell decisions are made on a specific transaction basis by the Board.
There were no changes to the Groups approach to capital management during the year.
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries are subject to externally imposed capital requirements.
Adjusted Performance Measures Spectris plc uses adjusted figures as key performance measures in addition to those reported under adopted IFRS, as management believe these measures enable them to assess the underlying trading performance of the businesses.
Adjusted figures exclude certain non-operational items which management has defined as amortisation and impairment of acquisition-related intangible assets, acquisition-related costs and contingent consideration fair value adjustments, acquisition-related fair value adjustments, profits or losses on termination or disposal of businesses, unrealised changes in the fair value of financial instruments, gains or losses on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances, related tax effects and other tax items which do not form part of the underlying tax rate see Note 10.
In addition, all income statement and operating cash flow figures have been restated to exclude the trading results and impact of the disposal of the Fusion UV business which was disposed of on 31 January 2013.
The adjusted performance measures are derived from the reported figures under adopted IFRS as follows: 2013 2012 Sales m m Sales as reported under adopted IFRS 1,202.0 1,230.8 Divested businesses 4.2 53.6 Sales excluding divested businesses 1,197.8 1,177.2 Materials Test and In-line Industrial Total Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls 2013 Sales by segment Note m m m m m Sales as reported under adopted IFRS 362.4 348.7 269.9 221.0 1,202.0 Divested businesses 4.2 4.2 Sales excluding divested businesses 4 362.4 348.7 265.7 221.0 1,197.8 Materials Test and In-line Industrial Total Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls 2012 Sales by segment Note m m m m m Sales as reported under adopted IFRS 348.1 345.4 320.1 217.2 1,230.8 Divested businesses 53.6 53.6 Sales excluding divested businesses 4 348.1 345.4 266.5 217.2 1,177.2 The following is an analysis of revenue by geographical destination: 2013 2012 m m UK 39.9 38.0 Germany 125.4 118.6 France 46.3 42.2 Rest of Europe 177.8 169.1 USA 336.9 337.0 Rest of North America 36.3 39.4 Japan 61.3 76.2 China 159.5 150.3 South Korea 33.7 33.6 Rest of Asia Pacific 100.9 97.5 Rest of the world 79.8 75.3 1,197.8 1,177.2 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 90 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 3.
Adjusted Performance Measures continued 2013 2012 Restated Adjusted operating profit Note m m Operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 185.9 196.0 Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 0.7 5.4 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 13 28.9 27.0 Adjusted operating profit 215.5 228.4 Divested businesses 0.8 11.5 Adjusted operating profit excluding divested businesses 214.7 216.9 Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2013 Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total Adjusted operating profit by segment 2013 Note m m m m m Operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 54.7 49.4 49.3 32.5 185.9 Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 0.3 0.4 0.7 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 8.3 5.4 2.7 12.5 28.9 Adjusted operating profit: segment result 4 63.3 54.8 52.0 45.4 215.5 Divested businesses 0.8 0.8 Adjusted operating profit excluding divested businesses: segment result 63.3 54.8 51.2 45.4 214.7 Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2012 Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total Adjusted operating profit by segment 2012 restated Note m m m m m Operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 56.9 50.1 60.6 28.4 196.0 Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 0.1 0.1 0.5 4.7 5.4 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 6.0 5.2 2.7 13.1 27.0 Adjusted operating profit: segment result 4 63.0 55.4 63.8 46.2 228.4 Divested businesses 11.5 11.5 Adjusted operating profit excluding divested businesses: segment result 63.0 55.4 52.3 46.2 216.9 Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments comprises of acquisition costs of 1.1m 2012: 0.9m that have been recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement under IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations, fair value adjustments to inventory of 0.1m 2012: 4.5m and other fair value adjustments, resulting in a credit of 0.5m 2012: nil.
Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments are included within administrative expenses.
Acquisition-related costs have been excluded from the adjusted operating profit and acquisition costs paid of 1.3m have been excluded from adjusted operating cash flow.
Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2013 Return on sales by segment 2013 Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total Using operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 15.1% 14.2% 18.3% 14.7% 15.5% Using adjusted operating profit 17.5% 15.7% 19.3% 20.6% 17.9% Using adjusted operating profit excluding divested businesses 17.5% 15.7% 19.3% 20.6% 17.9% Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2012 Return on sales by segment 2012 restated Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total Using operating profit as reported under adopted IFRS 16.3% 14.5% 18.9% 13.1% 15.9% Using adjusted operating profit 18.1% 16.0% 19.9% 21.3% 18.6% Using adjusted operating profit excluding divested businesses 18.1% 16.0% 19.6% 21.3% 18.4% 2013 2012 Restated Reconciliation to adjusted profit before tax and adjusted operating profit Note m m Profit before tax as reported under adopted IFRS 271.7 185.2 Add deduct : Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 0.7 5.4 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 13 28.9 27.0 Profit on disposal of businesses 25 98.3 Increase in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 19 0.7 0.9 Net loss gain on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 9 4.1 0.9 Adjusted profit before tax 206.4 215.8 Divested businesses 0.8 11.5 Adjusted profit before tax excluding divested businesses 205.6 204.3 Adjusted net finance costs see below 9.1 12.6 Adjusted operating profit excluding divested businesses 214.7 216.9 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 3.
Adjusted Performance Measures continued 2013 2012 Restated Adjusted net finance costs Note m m Net interest costs as reported under adopted IFRS 9 12.5 10.8 Increase in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 19 0.7 0.9 Net loss gain on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 9 4.1 0.9 Adjusted net finance costs 9.1 12.6 Divested businesses Adjusted net finance costs excluding divested businesses 9.1 12.6 2013 2012 Adjusted operating cash flow m m Net cash from operating activities under adopted IFRS 152.3 187.2 Acquisition-related costs paid 1.3 0.7 Net income taxes paid 64.1 52.6 Purchase of property, plant and equipment and software 31.7 28.8 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1.4 2.2 Adjusted operating cash flow 187.4 213.9 Divested businesses 2.6 9.1 Adjusted operating cash flow excluding divested businesses 184.8 204.8 2013 2012 Restated Adjusted earnings per share Note m m Profit after tax as reported under adopted IFRS 200.0 140.2 Adjusted for: Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 0.7 5.4 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets 13 28.9 27.0 Profit on disposal of businesses 25 98.3 Increase in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 19 0.7 0.9 Net loss gain on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 9 4.1 0.9 Tax effect of the above and other non-recurring items 10 22.8 10.8 Adjusted earnings 157.5 160.0 Profit after tax on divested businesses 0.5 7.4 Adjusted earnings excluding divested businesses 157.0 152.6 Weighted average number of shares outstanding millions 12 118.2 117.1 Adjusted earnings per share pence 133.3 136.6 Adjusted earnings per share excluding divested businesses pence 132.9 130.3 2013 2012 Adjusted diluted earnings per share Note Restated Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding millions 12 118.7 118.5 Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence 132.7 135.0 Adjusted diluted earnings per share excluding divested businesses pence 132.3 128.8 Basic and diluted earnings per share in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share are disclosed in Note 12.
2013 2012 Analysis of net debt for management purposes Note m m Bank overdrafts 18 2.2 1.0 Bank loans unsecured 18 145.7 200.3 Unsecured loan notes 18 81.8 Cross-currency interest rate swaps currency portion 19 11.8 Total borrowings 147.9 294.9 Cash balances 17 43.8 40.8 Net debt 104.1 254.1 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 92 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 4.
Operating Segments The Group has four reportable segments, as described below, which are the Groups strategic business units.
These units offer different applications, assist companies at various stages of the production cycle and are focused towards specific industries.
These segments reflect the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker considered to be the Board on a regular basis and to assist in making decisions to be allocated to each segment and assess performance.
The segment results include an allocation of head office expenses.
Thefollowing summary describes the operations in each of the Groups reportable segments: Materials Analysis provides products that enable customers to determine structure, composition, quantity and quality of particles and materials, during their R&D process, when assessing raw materials before production, or during the manufacturing process.
Key customers are leaders in academic research, mining, cement, pharmaceutical, chemical and electronics industries.
Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement and analysis equipment and software for product design optimisation, manufacturing control, and environmental monitoring systems.
Markets are principally the aerospace, automotive and consumer electronics industries.
In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical measurement, asset monitoring and on-line controls for both primary processing and the converting industries.
Key customers are in the electronics, petrochemicals, oil and gas, pulp and paper, energy, manufacturing, automotive and medical industries.
Industrial Controls provides products and solutions that measure, monitor, control, inform, track, and trace during the production process.
Key customers include industrial manufacturing, automotive, electronics, packaging, and life sciences.
Further details of the nature of these segments and the products and services they provide are contained in the Strategic Report on pages 28 to 35.
Materials Test and In-line Industrial 2013 Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total Information about reportable segments m m m m m Segment revenues 362.6 349.2 270.0 221.5 1,203.3 Inter-segment revenue 0.2 0.5 0.1 0.5 1.3 External revenue 362.4 348.7 269.9 221.0 1,202.0 Reportable segment profit for continuing operations 63.3 54.8 52.0 45.4 215.5 Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 0.3 0.4 0.7 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangibles 8.3 5.4 2.7 12.5 28.9 Operating profit 54.7 49.4 49.3 32.5 185.9 Profit on disposal of businesses 98.3 Financial income 1.2 Finance costs 13.7 Profit before tax 271.7 Tax 71.7 Profit after tax 200.0 2012 Materials Test and In-line Industrial Restated Analysis Measurement Instrumentation Controls Total m m m m m Segment revenues 347.8 345.8 320.4 217.8 1,231.8 Inter-segment revenue 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.6 1.0 External revenue 348.1 345.4 320.1 217.2 1,230.8 Reportable segment profit for continuing operations 63.0 55.4 63.8 46.2 228.4 Net acquisition-related costs and fair value adjustments 0.1 0.1 0.5 4.7 5.4 Amortisation of acquisition-related intangibles 6.0 5.2 2.7 13.1 27.0 Operating profit 56.9 50.1 60.6 28.4 196.0 Financial income 2.3 Finance costs 13.1 Profit before tax 185.2 Tax 45.0 Profit after tax 140.2 Not allocated to reportable segments in reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Reportable segment profit is consistent with that presented to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Inter-segment pricing is on an arms length basis.
Segments are presented on the basis of actual inter-segment charges made.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 4.
Operating Segments continued Carrying amount of Carrying amount of segment liabilities segment assets 2013 2012 2013 2012 Restated Restated m m m m Materials Analysis 304.2 299.2 92.2 115.8 Test and Measurement 321.6 329.9 75.8 78.2 In-line Instrumentation 214.3 226.2 42.0 46.7 Industrial Controls 395.2 404.6 19.8 19.4 Total segment assets and liabilities 1,235.3 1,259.9 229.8 260.1 Cash and borrowings 43.8 40.8 147.9 283.1 Derivative financial instruments 3.6 2.4 12.5 Pension asset liability 7.2 3.9 15.4 15.3 Taxation including amounts disclosed within assets and liabilities held for sale 18.9 24.6 71.6 69.0 Consolidated total assets and liabilities 1,308.8 1,331.6 464.7 640.0 Segment assets comprise: goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade and other receivables.
Segment liabilities comprise: trade and other payables, provisions and other payables, which can be reasonably attributed to the reported operating segments.
Unallocated items represent current and deferred taxation balances, defined benefit scheme assets and liabilities, derivative financial instruments and all components of net debt.
Additions to Depreciation and non-current assets amortisation 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Materials Analysis 6.6 31.9 13.6 10.7 Test and Measurement 8.8 8.9 13.4 12.6 In-line Instrumentation 22.2 9.7 7.7 8.2 Industrial Controls 8.1 2.9 15.8 16.1 45.7 47.6 50.5 47.6 Geographical segments The Groups operating segments are each located in several geographical locations and sell on to external customers in all parts of the world.
No individual country amounts to more than 3% of turnover, other than those noted below.
The following is an analysis of revenue by geographical destination.
Not allocated to reportable geographic area in reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Sale of goods 1,042.8 1,082.8 Services rendered 159.2 148.0 Revenue 1,202.0 1,230.8 No individual customer accounted for more than 2% of external revenue in either 2013 or 2012.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 6.
Operating Profit Operating profit has been arrived at after charging: 2013 2012 m m Net foreign exchange losses 1.4 2.2 Research and development expenditure 88.5 85.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 18.1 17.5 Amortisation of intangible assets 32.4 30.1 Loss gain on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.2 0.1 2013 2012 Auditors remuneration m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.5 0.5 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 1.1 1.1 audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 tax compliance services 0.3 tax advisory services 0.2 0.3 other services 0.1 0.1 2.0 2.4 Review of the half year Financial Statements.
Employee Costs Employee costs, including Directors remuneration, comprise: 2013 2012 Note m m Wages and salaries 335.7 326.6 Social security costs 62.9 61.3 Defined benefit pension plans: current service cost 8 1.1 1.3 past service cost 8 1.1 Defined contribution pension plans 8 11.2 11.1 Equity-settled share-based payment expense 2.3 6.2 Cash-settled share-based payment expense 0.8 1.3 414.0 408.9 2013 2012 Directors remuneration m m Short-term benefits 2.4 2.5 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.1 Equity-settled share-based payment expense 0.9 0.9 3.4 3.5 Further details of Directors remuneration and share options are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 72.
2013 2012 Average number of employees Number Number Production and engineering 3,646 3,735 Sales and marketing 2,958 2,881 Administrative 740 745 7,344 7,361 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 96 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 8.
Retirement Benefit Schemes Spectris plc operates funded defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans for the Groups qualifying employees in the UK.
Inaddition, 11 overseas subsidiaries 2012: 11 overseas subsidiaries in three overseas countries provide defined benefit plans.
Other UK and overseas subsidiaries have their own defined contribution plans invested in independent funds.
Defined benefit plans The UK, German, Dutch and Swiss plans provide pensions in retirement, death and in some cases disability benefits to members.
Thepension benefit is linked to members final salary at retirement and their service life.
Since 31 December 2009, the UK plan has been closed to newmembers.
The UK plan is administered by a pension fund, but the overseas plans are held by several insurance companies that are legally separated from the Group.
The UK plan is managed by a Board of Trustees that represents both employees and employer, who are required to act in the best interest of the plans participants and are responsible for setting certain policies e. g. investment, contribution and indexation policies of the various funds.
The UK plan exposes the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk, but the risk of the overseas plans is limited as the benefits have been reinsured with various insurance companies.
Inflation and interest rate hedges are taken out to mitigate against risks arising on the UK plan.
The overseas plans are funded by the Groups overseas subsidiaries, and the UK plan has been funded in the past by both the Groups UK subsidiaries and the Company.
The investments of the UK plan are invested in accordance with Section 40 of the Pensions Act 1995.
Although the Act permits 5% of the plans assets to be invested in employer-related investments, the Trustees have elected that none of the plan assets are to be invested directly in Spectris plc shares.
The funding requirements are based on the funds actuarial measurement framework set out in the funding policies of the various plans.
Employees are not required to contribute to the plans and the German plan is unfunded.
The Group has determined that, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the defined benefit plans, and in accordance with statutory requirements including minimum funding requirements of the plans of the respective jurisdictions, the present value of the refunds or reductions in future contributions is not lower than the balance of the total fair value of the plan assets less the total present value of obligations.
This determination has been made on a plan-by-plan basis.
As such, no decrease in the defined benefit asset was necessary at 31December 2013 and December 2012.
The last full actuarial valuation for the UK plan was 31 December 2011: for the German and Swiss plans it was 31 December 2013 and for the Dutch plans it was 31 December 2012.
Where applicable, the valuations were updated to 31 December 2013 for IAS 19 Revised Employee Benefits purposes by qualified independent actuaries.
The total Company contributions made to the defined benefit plans during the year ended 31 December 2013 were 1.5m 2012: 3.2m.
Contributions for 2014 are expected to be 0.6m for the German plan and 1.0m for the Swiss plan.
The above contribution rates are subject to review at future valuations and periodic certifications of the schedule of contributions.
Contributions to the Spectris Pension Plan UK ceased from 1 July 2012.
The assumptions used by the actuary to value the liabilities of the defined benefit plans were: 2013 2012 UK plan Overseas plans UK plan Overseas plans % p. a.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 8.
Retirement Benefit Schemes continued Pensioner life expectancy assumed in the 31 December 2013 valuation is based on the following tables.
UK plan 92% S1PMA 96% S1PFA centred in 2006, future improvements in line with CMI 2011 with a long-term rate of improvement of 1% per annum German plans Dr K Heubeck pension tables 2005 G Dutch plans A. G. Prognosetafel 2012-2062 tables Swiss plan BVG 2010 P12 Samples of the ages which pensioners are assumed to live to are as follows: Male Female Pensioners aged 65 in 2013 83.7 87.0 87.8 89.1 Pensioners aged 65 in 2023 85.1 87.6 88.6 89.9 UK plans Overseas plans Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement m m m m m m Current service cost 1.1 1.3 1.1 1.3 Net interest income cost 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.2 0.5 Administrative cost 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.3 Past service cost 1.1 1.1 0.1 1.3 1.6 1.9 1.7 3.2 The current and past service costs are recognised solely in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The net interest cost on the net defined benefit obligation is recognised in finance costs in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Actuarial losses or gains are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
During the year, insurance premiums for death-in-service benefits amounting to 0.4m 2012: 0.4m were paid.
The total return on scheme assets in the year was 15.9m 2012: 10.5m.
UK plans Overseas plans Total Amounts recognised in the Consolidated 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Statement of Comprehensive Income m m m m m m Actuarial gains losses recognised in the current year 3.4 4.9 0.3 2.9 3.7 2.0 Foreign exchange gains losses in the current year 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Total gains losses recognised in the current year 3.4 4.9 2.6 3.4 2.3 Cumulative actuarial losses since 1 January 2004 26.8 30.2 8.3 8.3 35.1 38.5 UK plans Overseas plans Total Amounts recognised in the Consolidated 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Statement of Financial Position m m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 112.2 105.3 36.2 33.3 148.4 138.6 Fair value of scheme assets 119.4 109.2 20.8 18.0 140.2 127.2 Net surplus deficit in schemes 7.2 3.9 15.4 15.3 8.2 11.4 UK plans Overseas plans Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Reconciliation of movement in net deficit m m m m m m At 1 January 3.9 1.3 15.3 12.4 11.4 13.7 Current service cost 1.1 1.3 1.1 1.3 Net interest income cost 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.2 0.5 Scheme administrative cost 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.3 Past service cost 1.1 1.1 Contributions from sponsoring company 1.6 1.5 1.6 1.5 3.2 Actuarial gains losses 3.4 4.9 0.3 2.9 3.7 2.0 Foreign exchange difference 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 7.2 3.9 15.4 15.3 8.2 11.4 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 98 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 8.
Retirement Benefit Schemes continued UK plans Overseas plans Total Analysis of movement in the present 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 value of the defined benefit obligation m m m m m m At 1 January 105.3 104.3 33.3 29.1 138.6 133.4 Current service cost 1.1 1.3 1.1 1.3 Interest cost 4.4 4.8 0.7 0.9 5.1 5.7 Past service cost 1.1 1.1 Contributions from scheme members 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 Actuarial gains losses financial 8.2 4.0 1.2 2.3 7.0 6.3 Actuarial losses demographic 0.5 0.5 Actuarial gains losses experience 0.6 4.4 0.8 1.2 0.2 3.2 Benefits paid 5.1 5.0 0.1 1.6 5.0 6.6 Foreign exchange difference 0.6 0.7 0.6 0.7 At 31 December 112.2 105.3 36.2 33.3 148.4 138.6 Analysed as: Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligation 6.6 6.8 6.6 6.8 Present value of funded defined benefit obligation 112.2 105.3 29.6 26.5 141.8 131.8 UK plans Overseas plans Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Reconciliation of movement in fair value of plan assets m m m m m m At 1 January 109.2 103.0 18.0 16.7 127.2 119.7 Return on plan assets 4.6 4.8 0.3 0.4 4.9 5.2 Scheme administration cost 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.3 Contributions from sponsoring company 1.6 1.5 1.6 1.5 3.2 Contributions from scheme members 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 Actuarial gains losses 11.0 5.0 0.1 0.6 10.9 5.6 Benefits paid 5.1 5.0 0.1 1.6 5.0 6.6 Foreign exchange difference 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.4 At 31 December 119.4 109.2 20.8 18.0 140.2 127.2 Analysis of plan assets UK plans Overseas plans Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Fair value of assets m m m m m m Equity instruments 29.0 27.4 29.0 27.4 Corporate bonds 77.4 81.4 77.4 81.4 Government bonds 8.1 8.1 Other assets 4.9 0.4 4.9 0.4 Insurance policies 20.8 18.0 20.8 18.0 119.4 109.2 20.8 18.0 140.2 127.2 Sensitivity analysis The table below shows the sensitivity of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position to changes in the significant pension assumptions: Change in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities UK plan Overseas plans 2013 2013 Discount rate Increase by 1% Decrease by 16.3m Decrease by 5.1m Rate of price inflation RPI Increase by 1% Increase by 10.8m Increase by 1.2m Assumed life expectancy at age 65 Increase by 1 year Increase by 3.0m Increase by 0.9m Defined contribution plans The total cost of the defined contribution plans for the year ended 31 December 2013 was 11.2m 2012: 11.1m.
There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions to these plans as at 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 100 Notes to the Accounts continued 9.
Finance Costs and Financial Income 2013 2012 Restated Financial income Note m m Interest receivable 0.5 0.5 Increase in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 19 0.7 0.9 Net gains on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 0.9 1.2 2.3 2013 2012 Restated Finance costs m m Interest payable on loans and overdrafts 9.1 12.6 Net losses on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 4.1 Net interest cost on pension scheme liabilities 0.2 0.5 Other finance costs 0.3 13.7 13.1 Net interest costs of 8.6m 2012: 12.1m for the purposes of the calculation of interest cover comprise of bank interest receivable of 0.5m 2012: 0.5m and interest payable on loans and overdrafts of 9.1m 2012: 12.6m.
Taxation 2013 2012 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Restated Restated Restated m m m m m m Current tax charge 5.4 70.1 75.5 5.0 44.2 49.2 Adjustments in respect of current tax of prior years 1.3 3.0 4.3 0.3 2.7 3.0 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.6 1.2 4.2 67.5 71.7 4.1 40.9 45.0 The standard rate of corporation tax for the year, based on the weighted average of tax rates applied to the Groups profits, is 30.9% 2012: 29.4%.
The tax charge for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation: 2013 2012 Restated m m Profit before taxation 271.7 185.2 Corporation tax at standard rate of 30.9% 2012: 29.4% 84.0 54.4 Non-taxable income and gains 6.1 5.7 Non-deductible expenditure 1.0 2.0 Movements on unrecognised deferred tax assets 0.3 Research and development tax incentives 3.7 3.8 Other current year tax items 0.5 Change in tax rates 0.2 0.1 Other adjustments to prior year current and deferred tax charges 3.3 2.8 Total taxation 71.7 45.0 Factors that may affect the future tax charge The Groups tax charge in future years is likely to be affected by the proportion of profits arising, and the effective tax rates, in the various territories in which the Group operates.
2013 2012 Tax on items recognised directly in other comprehensive income m m Tax on net gain on effective portion of changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts 0.1 1.0 Tax on actuarial gain arising on pension schemes, net of foreign exchange 0.9 0.6 Aggregate current and deferred tax charge relating to items that are charged directly to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 1.0 1.6 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 100 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 10.
Taxation continued 2013 2012 Tax on items recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity m m Tax on share-based payments 4.5 3.6 Aggregate current and deferred tax credit on items recognised directly in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 4.5 3.6 The following tax charges relate to items of income and expense that are excluded from the Groups adjusted performance measures.
2013 2012 Tax on items of income and expense that are excluded from the Groups adjusted profit before tax m m Tax charge on unrealised change in fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps 0.2 0.2 Tax credit on amortisation of intangible assets 9.8 9.1 Tax credit on acquisition-related costs 0.3 0.1 Tax charge credit on acquisition-related fair value adjustments 0.2 1.6 Tax credit on retranslation of short-term inter-company loan balances 0.5 0.2 Tax charge on profit of disposal of businesses 33.0 Total tax charge credit 22.8 10.8 The effective adjusted tax rate for the year was 23.6% 2012: 25.3% as set out in the reconciliation below.
2013 2012 Restated Reconciliation of total tax charge on adopted IFRS basis to adjusted tax charge Note m m Total tax charge on adopted IFRS basis 71.7 45.0 Tax charge credit on items of income and expense that are excluded from the Groups adjusted profit before tax 22.8 10.8 Adjusted tax charge 48.9 55.8 Divested businesses 0.3 4.1 Adjusted tax charge excluding divested businesses 48.6 51.7 Adjusted profit before tax excluding divested businesses 3 205.6 204.3 11.
Dividends 2013 2012 Amounts recognised and paid as distributions to owners of the Parent Company in the year m m Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 25.50p 2011: 25.40p per share 30.2 29.8 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 14.75p 2012: 13.50p per share 17.5 15.8 47.7 45.6 2013 2012 Amounts arising in respect of the year m m Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 14.75p 2012: 13.50p per share 17.5 15.8 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 28.00p 2012: 25.50p per share 33.2 29.9 50.7 45.7 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 12.
Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing net profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year excluding treasury shares.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year but adjusted for the effects of dilutive options.
The key features of share option contracts are described in Note 24.
2013 2012 Basic earnings per share Restated Profit after tax m 200.0 140.2 Weighted average number of shares outstanding millions 118.2 117.1 Basic earnings per share pence 169.2 119.7 2013 2012 Diluted earnings per share Restated Profit after tax m 200.0 140.2 Basic weighted average number of shares outstanding millions 118.2 117.1 Weighted average number of dilutive 5p ordinary shares under option millions 0.7 2.1 Weighted average number of 5p ordinary shares that would have been issued at average market value from proceeds of dilutive share options millions 0.2 0.7 Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding millions 118.7 118.5 Diluted earnings per share pence 168.5 118.3 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 102 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 103 13.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Patents, contractual Customerrights and related and Goodwill technology trade names Software Total Cost Note m m m m m At 1 January 2012 580.7 119.3 140.0 34.2 874.2 Additions 3.4 3.4 Recognised on acquisitions 27 5.7 10.7 7.7 24.1 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 14 1.6 1.6 Other movements 5.5 5.5 Reclassified to assets held for sale 25 0.1 2.1 2.2 Disposals 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange difference 18.8 3.5 5.5 0.9 28.7 At 31 December 2012 562.1 126.4 142.2 35.7 866.4 Additions 6.3 6.3 Recognised on acquisitions 27 3.2 11.2 3.8 18.2 Transfer from property, plant and equipment 14 0.2 0.2 Other movements 4.0 4.0 Disposals 1.5 1.5 Foreign exchange difference 4.1 2.6 4.4 0.3 10.8 At 31 December 2013 557.2 135.0 141.6 41.0 874.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 2012 36.2 33.3 27.5 26.8 123.8 Charge for the year 14.3 12.7 3.1 30.1 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 14 0.6 0.6 Reclassified to assets held for sale 25 1.9 1.9 Disposals 0.5 0.5 Foreign exchange difference 0.8 1.0 1.4 0.7 3.9 At 31 December 2012 35.4 46.6 38.8 27.4 148.2 Charge for the year 15.1 13.8 3.5 32.4 Disposals 1.5 1.5 Foreign exchange difference 0.8 1.4 2.4 0.2 2.8 At 31 December 2013 36.2 60.3 50.2 29.6 176.3 Carrying amount At 31 December 2013 521.0 74.7 91.4 11.4 698.5 At 31 December 2012 526.7 79.8 103.4 8.3 718.2 Goodwill Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units that are anticipated to benefit from the acquisition.
The Groups identified cash-generating units are smaller than the four reportable segments, being the 13 operating companies.
Bolt-on acquisitions are quickly integrated into existing Group companies and therefore not considered separately.
The most significant elements of goodwill are as follows: 2013 2012 Pre-tax Pre-tax Goodwill discount rate Goodwill discount rate Omega Engineering 160.1 14.4% 163.0 16.0% PANalytical 94.2 12.7% 97.7 13.9% Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration 67.9 12.6% 71.0 13.9% HBM 65.3 13.0% 64.9 14.4% BTG 52.7 12.4% 52.2 13.7% As part of the annual impairment review, the carrying amount of goodwill has been assessed with reference to value in use to perpetuity, reflecting the projected cash flows of each cash-generating unit based on actual operating results, the most recent budget for the next financial year as approved by the Board, and strategic review projections for 2015 and 2016.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 13.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets continued The key assumptions on which the value in use calculations are based relate to business performance over the next three years, projected long-term growth rates beyond 2016 and the discount rates applied.
The forecast cash flows include managements latest estimates on sales volumes and pricing, production and other costs.
There are no individually significant business level cash flow assumptions in respect of any business that materially impact the impairment testing.
The key judgements are the level of revenue and operating margins anticipated and the proportion of operating profit converted to cash in each year.
Foreign exchange rates are based on forecast rates at the time the budget and strategic review projections are prepared.
Growth rates for the years beyond 2015 are assumed to be 4.0% 2012: 2.5%, based on the historic operating profit growth over the last ten years.
The cash flow projections have been discounted using cash-generating unit specific pre-tax discount rates between 12% and 16% 2012: 13% and 18%.
These rates have been determined by taking the size of business and specific geographic and industry risk factors into account.
The reduction in the discount rates compared to the prior year is due to a reduction in the market risk premium and risk-free rate as well as a reduction in the cost of debt funding.
Following the annual impairment review, no impairment charge was recognised in either 2013 or 2012.
The Directors do not consider that there are any reasonable possible sensitivities for these businesses that could arise in the next 12 months that could result in an impairment charge.
For illustration, the Directors have considered the following specific individual sensitivities: a two percentage point pp increase in the pre-tax discount rate applied to each cash-generating unit would result in an impairment of nil 2012: nil : if the long-term growth rate assumption was reduced by 2.5pp to 1.5% 2012: reduced by 1.5pp to 1.0%, no impairment would arise 2012: nil : and if the cash flow projections of all cash-generating units were reduced by 25% for the next two years, no impairment would arise 2012:nil.
Other intangible assets The Directors consider that operating results in 2013 confirm that none of the Groups brought forward trading businesses has suffered a permanent diminution in value as a result of recent difficult economic conditions.
Of the total amortisation charge of 32.4m 2012: 30.1m, the amount attributable to the amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets was 28.9m 2012: 27.0m.
The transfers from property, plant and equipment to software in 2013 and 2012 relate to identifiable software assets.
The Group has no internally-generated intangible assets from development as the criteria for the recognition as an asset under IAS 38 Intangible Assets have not been met 2012: nil.
The trade names and technology assets recognised on the acquisition of Omega Engineering in 2011, and included within the Industrial Controls reportable segment, are considered significant by the Directors as they represent 58.1% 2012: 51.2% of total customer-related and trade names, and 30.1% 2012: 33.0% of total patents, contractual rights and technology, respectively.
The carrying amount of the trade name intangible at 31 December 2013 is 53.1m 2012: 57.1m and is being amortised over 20 years with the remaining amortisation period being 17.8 years.
The carrying amount of the technology intangible at 31 December 2013 is 21.0m 2012: 24.1m and is being amortised over 10 years with the remaining amortisation period being 7.8 years.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 104 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 14.
Property, Plant and Equipment Freehold Leasehold Plant and property property equipment Total Cost Note m m m m At 1 January 2012 131.1 12.0 155.1 298.2 Additions 8.4 1.4 15.6 25.4 Recognised on acquisitions 27 0.4 0.4 Transfers to plant and equipment 0.5 0.5 Transfers to other intangible assets 13 1.6 1.6 Other movements 0.2 0.2 Reclassified to assets held for sale 25 2.2 5.2 7.4 Disposals 3.8 0.8 6.9 11.5 Foreign exchange difference 3.8 0.4 5.0 9.2 At 31 December 2012 131.2 10.0 152.9 294.1 Additions 6.1 1.4 17.9 25.4 Recognised on acquisitions 27 0.1 0.1 Transfers to other intangible assets 13 0.2 0.2 Disposals 0.1 0.3 12.9 13.3 Foreign exchange difference 1.5 0.3 0.1 1.3 At 31 December 2013 138.7 10.8 157.9 307.4 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2012 32.9 8.5 104.1 145.5 Charge for the year 3.8 1.4 12.3 17.5 Transfers to other intangible assets 13 0.6 0.6 Reclassified to assets held for sale 25 2.0 4.6 6.6 Disposals 2.4 0.7 6.3 9.4 Foreign exchange difference 1.2 0.4 3.2 4.8 At 31 December 2012 33.1 6.8 101.7 141.6 Charge for the year 3.8 1.1 13.2 18.1 Disposals 0.1 0.3 11.7 12.1 Foreign exchange difference 0.6 0.3 0.5 0.8 At 31 December 2013 37.4 7.3 103.7 148.4 Carrying amount At 31 December 2013 101.3 3.5 54.2 159.0 At 31 December 2012 98.1 3.2 51.2 152.5 The amount recognised in the carrying amount of items of plant and equipment in the course of its construction was 3.0m 2012: 1.2m.
No borrowing costs met the required criteria for capitalisation during the year 2012: nil.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 105 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 15.
Inventories 2013 2012 m m Raw materials 60.0 62.2 Work in progress 26.1 28.7 Finished goods 75.9 72.9 162.0 163.8 In the ordinary course of business, the Group makes provision for slow-moving, excess and obsolete inventory to write it down to its net realisable value based on an assessment of technological and market developments specific to that business, and an analysis of historic and projected usage on an individual item basis.
Inventory is stated after charging 8.9m 2012: 10.0m in respect of inventory provisions and crediting 3.1m 2012: 2.7m relating to the reversal of previously recognised provisions.
Inventory carried at fair value less cost to sell is nil 2012: 0.7m due to the acquisitions described in Note 27.
Raw materials and changes in finished goods and work in progress recognised within cost of sales amounted to 323.9m 2012: 336.7m.
Trade and Other Receivables 2013 2012 m m Trade receivables 181.0 171.5 Prepayments and accrued income 14.7 19.6 Other receivables 20.1 17.7 215.8 208.8 Included within prepayments and accrued income and other receivables are amounts receivable in more than one year of 4.2m 2012: 5.3m.
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing.
Standard credit terms provided to customers differ according to business and country, and are typically between 30 and 60 days.
Trade receivables and other receivables are stated after the recognition of provisions for impairment of 3.6m 2012: 5.1m and the reversal of previously recognised provisions for impairment of 5.0m 2012: 2.9m.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables at 31 December by geographic region was: 2013 2012 m m UK 8.3 6.4 Germany 17.4 18.9 France 11.0 9.9 Rest of Europe 36.9 32.5 USA 44.2 42.4 Rest of North America 6.4 6.8 Japan 9.9 11.5 China 12.5 10.8 South Korea 5.4 3.7 Rest of Asia Pacific 16.4 14.0 Rest of the world 12.6 14.6 181.0 171.5 Impairment losses A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due from customers according to the original terms of sale.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 106 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 16.
Trade and Other Receivables continued The ageing of trade receivables and related provisions for impairment at 31 December was: 2013 2012 Gross Impairment Gross Impairment m m m m Not past due 133.2 0.3 123.4 0.4 One month past due 31.6 0.6 34.7 1.1 Two months past due 10.5 0.5 9.0 0.7 Three months past due 5.2 0.5 5.0 0.3 Over three months past due 10.2 7.8 11.1 9.2 190.7 9.7 183.2 11.7 The movement in the provision for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year was as follows: 2013 2012 m m Balance at 1 January 11.7 10.2 Impairment loss recognised 3.6 5.1 Impairment loss utilised 0.5 0.4 Impairment loss released 5.0 2.9 Reclassified to assets held for sale 0.2 Foreign exchange difference 0.1 0.1 Balance at 31 December 9.7 11.7 An impairment provision has been recorded against the trade receivables that the Group believes may not be recoverable.
All trade receivables past due for more than 120 days have been fully provided in line with the Groups credit risk policy.
The fair value of trade and other receivables approximates to its carrying amount due to the short-term maturities associated with these items.
There is no impairment risk identified with regards to prepayments and accrued income or other receivables where no amounts are past due.
Cash and Cash Equivalents 2013 2012 Analysis of balances of cash and cash equivalents Note m m Cash balances 43.8 40.8 Bank overdrafts 18 2.2 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 41.6 39.8 The Groups exposure to interest rate risk and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities is disclosed in Note 19.
Borrowings Effective Earlier of repricing 2013 2012 Current interest rate date or maturity date m m Bank overdrafts on demand 2.2 1.0 Unsecured loan notes 2003 $100m 6.08% 15 October 2013 61.5 Unsecured loan notes 2003 25m 5.56% 15 October 2013 20.3 2.2 82.8 Effective Earlier of repricing 2013 2012 Non-current interest rate date or maturity date m m Bank loans unsecured 1.69% 14 August 2016 21.1 153.8 Bank loans unsecured $75.6m 3.12% 10 September 2015 45.7 46.5 Bank loans unsecured 94.8m 2.56% 14 October 2020 78.9 Total unsecured borrowings 145.7 200.3 At 31 December 2013, the Group had available 311.0m 2012: 184.6m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
Unsecured loan notes The unsecured loan notes and cross-currency interest rate swaps which had the effect of converting this US Dollar borrowing into fixed interest Euro-denominated debt were repaid in full on redemption in October 2013.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 18.
Borrowings continued Under adopted IFRS, where cross-currency interest rate swaps are used, the value of the underlying US Dollar borrowing is presented separately to the value of the related cross-currency interest rate swap.
The underlying US Dollar borrowings are presented in this Note and the cross-currency interest rate swap is presented within derivative financial instruments in Note 19.
For management purposes, the value attributed to the portion of the swap arrangements that converts US Dollar borrowings into Euro borrowings is viewed as part of the Groups net debt, as analysed below.
2013 2012 Analysis of net debt Note m m Bank overdrafts 2.2 1.0 Bank loans unsecured 145.7 200.3 Unsecured loan notes 81.8 Cross-currency interest rate swaps currency portion 19 11.8 Total borrowings 147.9 294.9 Cash balances 17 43.8 40.8 Net debt 104.1 254.1 19.
Financial Instruments 2013 Level 2 Carrying fair value amount Fair value and carrying amount of financial instruments m m Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 201.1 Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 184.1 Cash and cash equivalents 43.8 Floating rate borrowings 23.3 Fixed rate borrowings 124.8 124.6 Forward exchange contracts 3.6 3.6 83.5 2012 Level 2 Carrying fair value amount Fair value and carrying amount of financial instruments m m Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 189.2 Trade and other payables excluding deferred income 203.7 Cash and cash equivalents 40.8 Floating rate borrowings 154.2 Fixed rate borrowings 134.7 128.9 Forward exchange contracts 2.4 2.4 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 12.5 12.5 266.9 The above tables show the fair value measurement of financial instruments by level following the fair value hierarchy: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets and liabilities: and Level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
At 31 December 2013, all financial instruments were held at level 2 fair value measurement.
There were no movements between level 1 and level 2 of the fair value hierarchy in the year.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and payables approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
The fair value of floating rate borrowings approximates to the carrying amount because interest rates are at floating rates where payments are reset to market rates at intervals of less than one year.
The fair value of fixed rate borrowings are estimated by discounting the future contracted cash flow, using appropriate yield curves, to the net present values.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 108 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 19.
Financial Instruments continued The fair value of forward exchange contracts and the cross-currency interest rate swaps are determined using discounted cash flow techniques based on readily available market data.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts outstanding as at 31 December 2013 is a net asset of 3.6m 2012: 2.4m, of which 2.9m has been credited to the hedging reserve 2012: 2.1m credit and 0.7m credited to the Consolidated Income Statement 2012: 0.3m credit.
These contracts mature over periods typically not exceeding 18 months.
A summary of the movements in the hedging reserve during the year is presented below.
In accordance with IFRS, all of the cash flow hedges in 2013 and 2012 were deemed to be effective.
2013 2012 Analysis of movements in hedging reserve net of tax m m At 1 January 0.8 3.6 Amounts removed from the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and included in the Consolidated Income Statement during the year 3.5 0.2 Amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity during the year 4.1 3.0 At 31 December 0.2 0.8 The amount included in the Consolidated Income Statement is split between revenue and administrative expenses depending on the nature of the hedged item.
The following table shows the contractual forward exchange contracts hedging designated transactional exposures.
These contracts typically mature in the next 18 months and, therefore, the cash flows and resulting effect on profit and loss are expected to occur within this timeperiod.
Forward exchange contracts at 31 December 2013 2012 Foreign currency sale amount m 97.0 94.3 Percentage of total: US Dollar 38% 31% Euro 40% 41% Japanese Yen 19% 24% Other 3% 4% Cross-currency interest rate swaps The Groups cross-currency interest rate swaps were all settled at maturity in October 2013.
The table below shows the movements in the total value of the cross-currency interest rate swaps during the year and also how it is attributed to its currency and interest portions.
Currency portion Interest portion Total value Fair value of cross-currency interest rate swaps m m m As at 1 January 2012 11.2 1.6 12.8 Change in fair value recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.6 0.6 Change in fair value recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 0.9 0.9 As at 31 December 2012 11.8 0.7 12.5 Change in fair value recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 11.8 11.8 Change in fair value recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 0.7 0.7 As at 31 December 2013 A maturity profile of the gross cash flows related to financial liabilities is: 2013 2012 Bank loans Bank loans Crossand Unsecured and Unsecured currency overdrafts loans Total overdrafts loans swap Total Maturity of financial liabilities m m m m m m m Due within one year 2.2 3.8 6.0 1.0 90.9 12.3 104.2 Due between one and two years 49.5 49.5 4.4 4.4 Due between two and five years 27.8 27.8 209.0 209.0 Due in more than five years 82.9 82.9 2.2 164.0 166.2 1.0 304.3 12.3 317.6 Trade and other payables Note 20 are substantially due within one year.
It is not expected that the cash flows described above could occur significantly earlier or at substantially different amounts.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 109 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 19.
Financial Instruments continued 2013 Net Financial assets Financial liabilities financial Fixed Floating Non-interest Fixed Floating assets Interest rate exposure of financial rate rate bearing Total rate rate Total liabilities assets and liabilities by currency m m m m m m m m Sterling 0.4 1.7 2.1 2.1 Euro 6.5 3.7 10.2 78.9 78.9 68.7 US Dollar 12.5 3.9 16.4 45.7 22.1 67.8 51.4 Other 0.8 4.5 9.8 15.1 1.2 1.2 13.9 0.8 23.9 19.1 43.8 124.6 23.3 147.9 104.1 2012 Net Financial assets Financial liabilities financial Fixed Floating Non-interest Fixed Floating assets Interest rate exposure of financial rate rate bearing Total rate rate Total liabilities assets and liabilities by currency m m m m m m m m Sterling 0.8 0.8 0.8 Euro 7.2 6.6 13.8 93.7 0.1 93.8 80.0 US Dollar 6.8 4.5 11.3 46.5 154.1 200.6 189.3 Other 1.5 5.6 7.8 14.9 0.5 0.5 14.4 1.5 19.6 19.7 40.8 140.7 154.2 294.9 254.1 The above exposures are net of the cross-currency interest rate swap.
Sensitivity analysis The tables below show the Groups sensitivity to foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
The US Dollar, Euro Danish Krone and Swiss Franc represent the main foreign exchange translational exposures for the Group.
The Groups borrowings are primarily in US Dollars and Euros.
2013 2012 Decrease Decrease Decrease in profit Decrease in profit in equity before tax in equity before tax Impact on foreign exchange translational exposures against Sterling m m m m 10% weakening in the US Dollar 67.3 6.2 53.8 6.9 10% weakening in the Euro Danish Krone 61.1 5.1 58.5 7.0 10% weakening in the Swiss Franc 3.0 2.0 3.0 1.7 Impact of interest rate movements 1% 100 basis points increase in interest rates 1.3 20.
Trade and Other Payables 2013 2012 Current m m Trade payables 74.8 80.3 Accruals 71.6 73.8 Deferred income 24.7 23.9 Other non-trade payables 22.9 29.9 194.0 207.9 Non-current Other non-trade payables 14.8 19.7 The fair value of trade and other payables approximates to their carrying amount due to the short-term maturities associated with these items.
The effect of discounting on non-current payables is not considered to be material.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 110 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 111 21.
Provisions Legal, Product contractual Reorganisation warranty and other Total m m m m At 1 January 2013 1.5 9.1 15.8 26.4 Additional provision in the year 0.3 6.2 2.1 8.6 Utilised during the year 1.2 3.9 2.0 7.1 Released during the year 0.7 6.1 6.8 Foreign exchange difference 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2013 0.6 10.6 9.8 21.0 Provisions are all presented as current liabilities.
Reorganisation Reorganisation provisions relate to committed restructuring plans in place within the business.
Costs are expected to be incurred within one year and there is little judgement in determining the amount.
Product warranty Product warranty provisions reflect commitments made to customers on the sale of goods in the ordinary course of business and included within the Groups standard terms and conditions.
Warranty commitments typically apply for a 12-month period, but can extend to 36months.
These extended warranties are not significant.
Legal, contractual and other Legal, contractual and other comprises mainly amounts provided against open legal and contractual disputes arising from trade.
TheCompany has on occasion been required to take legal or other actions to protect its intellectual property rights, to enforce commercial contracts or otherwise and similarly to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties.
Provisions are made for the expected costs associated with such matters, based on past experience of similar items and other known factors, taking into account professional advice received, and represent managements best estimate of the most likely outcome.
The timing of utilisation of these provisions is frequently uncertain, reflecting the complexity of issues and the outcome of various court proceedings and negotiations.
Contractual and other provisions represent the Directors best estimate of the cost of settling future obligations although there is a higher degree of judgement involved.
The reduction in the provision during the year is due to a lower legal risk profile in the Group.
Unless specific evidence exists to the contrary, these provisions are shown ascurrent.
No provision is made for proceedings which have been or might be brought by other parties against Group companies unless management, taking into account professional advice received, assesses that it is more likely than not that such proceedings may be successful.
Contingent liabilities associated with such proceedings have been identified, but the Directors are of the opinion that any associated claims that might be brought can be resisted successfully and, therefore, the possibility of any material outflow in settlement is assessed as remote.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 111 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 22.
Deferred Tax The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below.
2013 2012 Restated Note m m At 1 January 19.4 12.9 Foreign exchange difference 0.6 0.4 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 27 3.1 6.4 Other acquisition-related 0.3 Reclassified as assets held for sale 1.6 Deferred tax on changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.2 1.0 Deferred tax on actuarial gains and losses on pension schemes recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.9 0.2 Deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in equity 0.2 1.1 Credited to the Consolidated Income Statement 10 0.5 1.2 At 31 December 22.0 19.4 Comprising: Deferred tax liabilities 39.0 36.2 Deferred tax assets 17.0 16.8 22.0 19.4 The total deferred tax charge in the year of 0.5m recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement includes an amount of 1.0m which was charged in respect of deferred tax balances which were previously included within assets held for sale.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority.
Unrealised Goodwill Accelerated Accruals profit on and other tax and Tax inter-company Pension intangible 2013 depreciation provisions losses transactions schemes assets Other Total Net deferred tax assets liabilities m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 5.2 19.8 0.9 6.1 3.4 44.8 0.4 19.4 Foreign exchange difference 0.6 0.6 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 2.8 2.8 Deferred tax on changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax on actuarial loss on pension schemes recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.9 0.9 Deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in equity 0.2 0.2 Charged credited to the Consolidated Income Statement 0.9 5.2 0.1 1.0 0.3 3.9 2.1 0.5 At 31 December 2013 4.3 14.6 1.0 5.1 2.2 43.1 2.5 22.0 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 112 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 113 22.
Deferred Tax continued Unrealised Goodwill Accelerated Accruals profit on and other 2012 tax and Tax inter-company Pension intangible Restated depreciation provisions losses transactions schemes assets Other Total Net deferred tax assets liabilities m m m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 1.8 24.7 1.0 7.6 4.0 48.5 0.1 12.9 Foreign exchange difference 0.4 0.4 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 6.4 6.4 Reclassified as assets held for sale 1.4 0.2 1.6 Deferred tax on changes in fair value of forward exchange contracts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 1.0 1.0 Deferred tax on actuarial loss on pension schemes recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in equity 1.1 1.1 Charged credited to the Consolidated Income Statement 3.4 3.5 0.1 1.3 0.4 9.7 0.2 1.2 At 31 December 2012 5.2 19.8 0.9 6.1 3.4 44.8 0.4 19.4 Unrecognised temporary differences Deferred tax assets have not been recognised on the following temporary differences due to the degree of uncertainty over both the amount and utilisation of the underlying tax losses and deductions in certain jurisdictions.
There is no expiry date associated with losses.
2013 2012 m m Tax losses 2.1 18.2 Other temporary differences 0.8 7.3 2.9 25.5 The UK corporation tax rate was reduced to 23% from 24% with effect from 1 April 2013.
Further phased reductions in the UK tax rate to 20% effective from 1 April 2015 21% from 1 April 2014 were substantively enacted in the UK Finance Act 2013.
It is likely that the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries would qualify for the UK dividend exemption such that no UK tax would be due upon remitting these earnings to the UK.
However, 29.6m 2012: 30.5m of those earnings may still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of the dividend withholding taxes levied by the overseas tax jurisdictions in which those subsidiaries operate.
These tax liabilities are not expected to exceed 1.6m 2012: 1.6m, of which only 0.3m has been provided as the Group is able to control the timing of the dividends.
It is not expected that further amounts will crystallise in the foreseeable future.
Share Capital and Reserves 2013 2012 Number of Number of shares m shares m Issued and fully paid: At 1 January 125.0 6.2 125.0 6.2 At 31 December 125.0 6.2 125.0 6.2 The Group has one class of ordinary voting shares which carries no right to fixed income.
Other reserves Movements in reserves are set out in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
The retained earnings reserve also includes own shares purchased by the Company and treated as treasury shares see Note 26.
The nature and purpose of other reserves forming part of equity are as follows: Translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of foreign subsidiaries, including gains or losses arising on net investment hedges.
Hedging reserve This reserve records the cumulative net change in the fair value of forward exchange contracts where they are designated as effective cash flow hedge relationships.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 113 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 23.
Share Capital and Reserves continued Merger reserve This reserve arose on the acquisition of Servomex Limited in 1999, a purchase satisfied substantially by the issue of share capital and therefore eligible for merger relief under the provisions of Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Capital redemption reserve This reserve records the historical repurchase of the Groups own shares.
Share-based Payments The Save As You Earn Share SAYE Option Scheme was set up in order to provide Executives and selected employees with options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
Under the SAYE Scheme, equity shares are issued following a vesting period of three years.
Options may be exercised during a six-month period following the vesting date, and exercise prices are determined according to the mid-market closing share price prevailing on the day before the date of grant.
There are no performance criteria associated with options granted under the SAYE Scheme.
Under the Performance Share Plan unapproved share options as defined by HMRC, the exercise price is the nominal cost of the Companys shares.
Awards to Spectris plc Executives and Senior Managers are subject to performance criteria: 50% of the award being based on fulfilment of an adjusted earnings growth target EPS and 50% subject to a total shareholder return target TSR.
Awards made to Executives and Senior Managers of the Groups operating companies in 2008 and 2009 have performance criteria subject to EPS in respect of 50% of the award and operating company profit targets in respect of 50% of the award.
For awards made subsequent to 2010, the performance criteria is EPS in respect of 33.33% of the award and operating company profit targets in respect of 66.67% of the award.
Operating company Manager awards are entirely subject to operating company profit targets.
Awards vest after a period of three years and must be exercised during the seven-year period following vesting.
Since 2011, the Company has also granted Performance Share Plan options that were approved share options as defined by HMRC.
Theperformance criteria and vesting conditions are consistent with the unapproved options granted described above.
The approved share options are linked to the unapproved share options in order to benefit from the tax-exempt status of approved share option grants to a value not exceeding 30,000.
Should there be a gain on exercise under the approved options, such gain will cause a proportionate reduction in the number and value of the linked unapproved options.
Should there be no gain on exercise under the approved options, these options are then forfeited and the linked unapproved options may be exercised in full, to the extent their performance criteria ismet.
Share options outstanding at the end of the year 2013 2012 Exercise price Contractual life Number Number SAYE Year of grant of options Thousands Thousands 2009 7.23 Nil 5 2010 10.19 1 year 2 17 2011 13.81 2 years 29 31 2012 16.95 3 years 35 39 2013 22.45 4 years 23 89 92 2013 2012 Exercise price Contractual life Number Number Performance Share Plan unapproved Year of grant of options Thousands Thousands 2007 0.05 4 years 1 3 2008 0.05 5 years 8 77 2009 0.05 6 years 40 421 2010 0.05 7 years 113 888 2011 0.05 8 years 552 645 2012 0.05 9 years 552 636 2013 0.05 10 years 460 1,726 2,670 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 114 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 24.
Share-based Payments continued 2013 2012 Exercise price Contractual life Number Number Performance Share Plan approved Year of grant of options Thousands Thousands 2011 11.30 8 years 7 7 2012 17.31 9 years 72 78 2013 23.78 10 years 26 105 85 Movements in the year 2013 2012 Weighted Weighted average Value of average Value of Number exercise price shares Number exercise price shares SAYE Thousands m Thousands m At 1 January 92 14.09 1.3 108 9.77 1.1 Granted 23 22.45 0.5 39 16.95 0.7 Exercised 20 9.52 0.2 50 7.33 0.4 Forfeited 6 15.48 0.1 5 11.00 0.1 At 31 December 89 17.23 1.5 92 14.09 1.3 Exercisable at 31 December 2 10.19 0.02 5 7.23 0.04 2013 2012 Weighted Weighted average Value of average Value of Number exercise price shares Number exercise price shares Performance Share Plan unapproved Thousands m Thousands m At 1 January 2,670 0.05 0.13 3,110 0.05 0.15 Shares granted 488 0.05 0.02 653 0.05 0.03 Addition of reinvested dividends 72 0.05 0.01 127 0.05 0.01 Exercised 1,306 0.05 0.06 1,031 0.05 0.05 Forfeited 198 0.05 0.01 189 0.05 0.01 At 31 December 1,726 0.05 0.09 2,670 0.05 0.13 Exercisable at 31 December 162 0.05 0.01 501 0.05 0.03 2013 2012 Weighted Weighted average Value of average Value of Number exercise price shares Number exercise price shares Performance Share Plan approved Thousands m Thousands m At 1 January 85 16.82 1.43 7 11.30 0.08 Shares granted 26 23.78 0.62 79 17.31 1.37 Exercised Forfeited 6 17.81 0.11 1 17.31 0.02 At 31 December 105 18.47 1.94 85 16.82 1.43 Exercisable at 31 December Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 115 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 24.
Share-based Payments continued Share-based payment expense Share options are valued using the stochastic option pricing model also known as the Monte Carlo model, with support from an independent remuneration consultant.
The TSR performance condition was included in the calculation of fair value under the Performance Share Plan.
For options granted in 2012 and 2013, the fair value of options granted and the assumptions used in the calculation are as follows: Performance Share Plan Performance Share Plan SAYE unapproved approved 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Weighted average share price at date of grant 22.21 18.27 23.65 17.48 23.54 17.50 Weighted average exercise price 22.45 16.95 0.05 0.05 23.78 17.31 Expected volatility 33.2% 32.4% n a 35.4% 33.0% 35.4% Expected life 3.45 yrs 3.25 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs 3 yrs Risk-free rate 0.9% 0.4% 0.4% 0.5% 0.4% 0.5% Expected dividends expressed as a yield 1.8% 2.1% 0% 0% 1.6% 1.9% Fair value per option 4.25 3.62 Weighted average fair values at date of grant : Equity-settled TSR condition 14.69 11.32 4.58 3.76 Equity-settled Profit condition 23.26 17.00 4.63 3.78 Equity-settled EPS condition 23.43 16.95 4.64 3.78 Cash-settled Profit condition 23.52 17.40 Cash-settled EPS condition 23.50 17.38 Cash-settled TSR condition 15.39 Weighted average fair values at 31 December : Cash-settled Profit condition 24.69 19.62 Cash-settled EPS condition 24.69 19.62 Cash-settled TSR condition 12.99 The expected volatility is based on historical volatility over the expected term.
The expected life is the average expected period to exercise.
Therisk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds of a term consistent with the assumed option life.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for unapproved share options exercised under the Performance Share Plan in 2013 was 21.82 2012: 17.56.
The weighted average fair value of cash-settled options outstanding at 31 December 2013 is 25.07 for the EPS condition 2012: 20.06.
The Group recognised a total charge of 3.1m 2012: 7.5m in the Consolidated Income Statement, of which 2.3m 2012: 6.2m related to equity-settled share-based payment transactions.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 116 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 25.
Disposal of Businesses In line with the agreement signed 18 December 2012, on 31 January 2013, the Group disposed of the Fusion business, part of the In-line Instrumentation segment, for a final consideration of US$175m.
2013 Effect of disposal on the financial position of the Group Note m Other intangible assets 13 0.3 Property, plant and equipment 0.9 Deferred tax assets 22 0.5 Inventory 5.1 Trade and other receivables 8.1 Cash 1.8 Trade and other payables 5.6 Current tax liabilities 0.6 Provisions 0.2 Net assets divested 10.3 Consideration received, satisfied in cash 110.2 Cash disposed of 1.8 Transaction expenses 3.1 Net cash inflow 105.3 Cash received net of transaction expenses 107.1 Net assets disposed of 10.3 Currency translation differences transferred from translation reserve 1.5 Profit on disposal of businesses 98.3 The sale of the Fusion business did not meet the definition of a discontinued operation given in IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations and, therefore, no disclosures in relation to discontinued operations have been made.
The Group did not divest of any businesses during 2012.
Disposal of associate On 19 February 2013, the Group acquired certain trade and assets that resulted in a deemed disposal of its 31.2% associate investment in Naneum Limited for 0.7m in cash.
The Groups share of the associates results up to the date of the disposal and the gain loss on disposal was not considered material.
Treasury Shares At 31 December 2013, the Group held 6,344,254 treasury shares 2012: 7,612,379.
During the year 1,268,125 of these shares were issued to satisfy options exercised by employees which were granted under the Groups share schemes 2012: 1,021,685.
No shares were repurchased by the Group during the year 2012: nil and no shares were cancelled during the year 2012: nil.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 117 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 27.
Acquisitions On 19 February 2013, the Group acquired certain of the trade and assets of a previously held associate, Naneum Limited, a company based in the UK, for a total consideration of 1.3m, including 0.5m contingent consideration which is the expected royalty payments based on 6% of expected sales over a seven-year period.
This extends the Groups capabilities in aerosol monitoring instruments.
The excess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of the tangible net assets acquired is represented by technology-based intangibles of 1.3m.
This business has been integrated into the Materials Analysis segment.
On 27 September 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of NanoSight Limited, a company based in the UK, for a total consideration of 16.4m 14.6m net of cash acquired.
This extends the Groups capabilities in particle size measurement instrumentation.
Theexcess of the fair value of the consideration paid over the fair value of the net assets acquired is represented by technology-based intangibles of 9.9m and customer-related intangibles of 3.8m.
Goodwill of 3.2m has been recognised as a consequence of the requirement to recognise a deferred tax liability on the fair value adjustments.
In November 2013, the Group acquired the trade and software-related assets of PROdry Technology Inc. a US business with expertise in tissue process consulting.
The acquisition has not been accounted for under IFRS3 Revised as it is deemed immaterial, and has been treated as an acquisition of software within intangible assets.
The fair value of the net assets acquired is not materially different from the book value.
The business is being integrated into the In-line Instrumentation segment.
The assets and liabilities acquired as a result of the above transactions, together with the aggregate purchase consideration, are summarised in the table below.
The revenue and operating profit contribution from the acquisitions in the year to the Groups results for the year were 1.5m and 0.2m, respectively.
Group revenue and operating profit would have been 1,206.5m and 186.1m adjusted operating profit: 214.1m, respectively, had each of these acquisitions taken place on the first day of the financial year.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 118 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 27.
Acquisitions continued The following fair value tables are provisional, reflecting the timing of the acquisitions, and are expected to be finalised within 12 months of the acquisition date.
2013 Book value Adjustments Fair value Net assets acquired under 2013 acquisitions m m m Intangible fixed assets 15.0 15.0 Tangible fixed assets 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax asset 0.1 0.1 Inventories 0.5 0.1 0.6 Trade and other receivables 1.2 1.2 Trade and other payables 1.1 1.1 Provisions Deferred tax liabilities 3.2 3.2 Cash 1.8 1.8 Net assets acquired 2.6 11.9 14.5 Goodwill 3.2 Total consideration in respect of 2013 acquisitions 17.7 Total consideration 17.7 Adjustment for cash acquired 1.8 Net consideration in respect of 2013 acquisitions 15.9 Analysis of cash outflow in Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Total consideration in respect of 2013 acquisitions 17.7 Adjustment for cash acquired on 2013 acquisitions 1.8 Deferred and contingent consideration on 2013 acquisiti ons to be paid in future years 0.5 Cash paid in 2013 in respect of 2013 acquisitions 15.4 Acquisitions prior to 2013 Purchase price adjustment in relation to prior year acquisition 0.1 Deferred and contingent consideration in relation to prior years acquisitions: accrued at 31 December 2012 1.4 Cash paid in 2013 in respect of prior years acquisitions 1.5 Net cash outflow relating to acquisitions 16.9 Due to their contractual due dates, the fair value of receivables acquired approximates to the gross contractual amounts receivable.
Theamount of gross contractual receivables not expected to be recovered is immaterial.
There are no material contingent liabilities recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 Revised.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 119 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Notes to the Accounts continued 27.
Acquisitions continued The following tables represent the finalisation of the fair values relating to the 2012 acquisitions: 2012 Book value Adjustments Fair value Net assets acquired under 2012 acquisitions m m m Intangible fixed assets 0.1 18.3 18.4 Tangible fixed assets 0.4 0.4 Deferred tax asset 0.4 0.4 Inventories 1.1 0.2 0.9 Taxation recoverable 0.2 0.2 Trade and other receivables 1.5 1.5 Trade and other payables 1.0 1.0 Provisions 0.6 0.1 0.7 Deferred tax liabilities 6.5 6.5 Cash 0.5 0.5 Net assets acquired 2.6 11.5 14.1 Goodwill 1.5 Total consideration in respect of 2012 acquisitions 15.6 Total consideration 15.6 Adjustment for cash acquired 0.5 Net consideration in respect of 2012 acquisitions 15.1 Analysis of cash outflow in Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Total consideration in respect of 2012 acquisitions 15.6 Adjustment for cash acquired on 2012 acquisitions 0.5 Deferred and contingent consideration on 2012 acquisitions to be paid in future years 5.0 Cash paid in 2012 in respect of 2012 acquisitions 10.1 Prior years acquisitions Purchase price adjustment in relation to prior year acquisition 0.2 Deferred and contingent consideration in relation to prior years acquisitions: accrued at 31 December 2011 5.6 Cash paid in 2012 in respect of prior years acquisitions 5.4 Net cash outflow relating to acquisitions 15.5 A reduced purchase price of 0.2m in relation to prior year acquisitions was received during the prior year based on updated expectations.
Contingent Liabilities Royal Bank of Scotland Spectris plc and its UK subsidiaries are party to a cross guarantee arrangement to support trade finance facilities provided by the bank.
They are also party to a cross guarantee arrangement that allows individual subsidiaries to borrow from the bank on overdraft within the overall borrowing limit agreed with the bank.
Spectris plc has provided a Parent Company guarantee to support trade finance facilities provided by the bank to its subsidiaries in various countries outside of the UK and USA.
Spectris plc has also provided a Parent Company guarantee to support overdraft and intra-day facilities provided by the bank to its subsidiaries who participate in the cross-border Euro zero balance pooling arrangement.
An amount of 12.5m 2012: 15.1m was outstanding at 31 December 2013.
Other banks Group companies have, in the normal course of business, provided bonds and guarantees through local banking arrangements amounting to 5.0m 2012: 8.4m.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 120 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 121 29.
Operating Lease Arrangements 2013 2012 Property Other Property Other Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases m m m m Not later than one year 10.5 4.5 11.3 4.4 Later than one year and not later than five years 20.3 5.0 25.9 4.9 Later than five years 4.9 5.5 35.7 9.5 42.7 9.3 Group companies are party to a number of operating leases for plant and machinery, motor vehicles and property rentals.
The arrangements do not impose any significant restrictions on the Group.
During the year 14.4m 2012: 13.9m was recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in respect of operating lease rental payments.
Capital Commitments At 31 December 2013, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment and software amounting to 1.6m 2012: 2.0m which have not been accrued.
Related Party Transactions Key management personnel are defined for the purpose of disclosure under IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures as the members of the Board of Directors as identified on page 41.
It is the Board of Directors who have responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
Details of the Directors remuneration are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 68.
There are no other related party transactions.
Subsidiary Undertakings The following are the Groups principal subsidiary undertakings.
They operate mainly in the countries of incorporation.
All of the subsidiaries are involved in the manufacture and sale of materials analysis systems, test and measurement equipment, in-line instrumentation and industrial controls.
Spectris plc holds 100% of the ordinary share capital of all the subsidiaries either directly or indirectly through intermediate holding companies.
Country of incorporation Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration Measurement A S Denmark Brel & Kjr Vibro A S Denmark Hottinger Baldwin Messtechnik GmbH Germany BTG Eclpens SA Switzerland PANalytical BV The Netherlands Malvern Instruments Limited UK Servomex Group Limited UK Beta LaserMike Inc USA Microscan Systems Inc USA NDC Infrared Engineering Inc USA Particle Measuring Systems Inc USA Red Lion Controls Inc USA Omega Engineering Inc USA 33.
Post Balance Sheet Events There were no post balance sheet events.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 121 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
