Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 Statement of Directors responsibilities Our Annual Report and Accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group.
Board of Directors The Directors are responsible for preparing They have general responsibility for taking Accordingly, any liability to a person who the Annual Report and Accounts and such steps as are reasonably open to has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or the Group and parent company financial them to safeguard the assets of the Group misleading statement or omission shall be statements in accordance with applicable and to prevent and detect fraud and determined in accordance with schedule law and regulations.
10A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
It should be noted that schedule Company law requires the Directors to Under applicable law and regulations the 10A contains limits on the liability of the prepare Group and parent company Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc financial statements for each financial Corporate governance report, Remuneration so that their liability is solely to Spirax-Sarco year.
Under that law, they are required to report and Regulatory disclosures that Engineering plc.
prepare the Group financial statements in comply with that law and those regulations.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for the EU and applicable law and have elected maintenance and integrity of the We confirm that to the best of to prepare the parent company financial corporate and financial information our knowledge: statements on the same basis.
included on the Groups website, The financial statements, prepared in Under company law, the Directors must not www.
accordance with the applicable set of approve the financial statements unless they Legislation in the UK governing the accounting standards, give a true and are satisfied that they give a true and fair preparation and dissemination of financial fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial view of the state of affairs of the Group and statements may differ from legislation in position and profit or loss of the Company parent company and of their profit or loss for other jurisdictions.
and the undertakings included in the that period.
In preparing each of the Group Cautionary statement consolidation taken as a whole: and and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: All statements other than statements of The management report includes a historical fact included in this document, fair review of the development and Select suitable accounting policies and including, without limitation, those regarding performance of the business and then apply them consistently the financial condition, results, operations the position of the Company and the Make judgements and estimates that are and businesses of Spirax-Sarco Engineering undertakings included in the consolidation reasonable and prudent plc and its strategy, plans and objectives taken as a whole, together with a and the markets and economies in which it description of the principal risks that State whether they have been prepared in operates, are forward-looking statements.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU These forward-looking statements, which Signed by Prepare the financial statements on reflect managements assumptions made the going concern basis unless it is on the basis of information available to it inappropriate to presume that the Group at this time, involve known and unknown and the parent company will continue risks, uncertainties and other important in business.
factors which could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of D J Meredith The Directors are responsible for keeping Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc or the markets Finance Director adequate accounting records that are and economies in which we operate to on behalf of the Board of Directors sufficient to show and explain the parent be materially different from future results, 5th March 2014 companys transactions and disclose with performance or achievements expressed or reasonable accuracy at any time the financial implied by such forward-looking statements.
position of the parent company and enable Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc and its them to ensure that its financial statements Directors accept no liability to third parties comply with the Companies Act 2006. in respect of this report save as would arise under English law.
Risk Management Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Annual report on Regulatory disclosures Statement of Committee letter of introduction report 2014 remuneration 2013 Directors responsibilities 3.
