Performance review Networks  businesses Owning, operating and investing in Networks Keeping the lights Electricity and gas transmission and distribution companies are natural monopolies, serving defined geographical areas.
The performance of SSEs on and supporting  electricity networks businesses is reported within Networks, as is the performance of Scotia growth.
Gas Networks SGN, in which SSE has a 50% stake.
In addition, the marketbased activities of Lighting Services, Utility Solutions and Telecoms are also network-based and are, therefore, Networks Networks Regulated Electricity networks included within SSEs Networks operating profit m Asset Value net bn capital expenditure m segment as Other Networks.
 network 876.1 6.36 623.0 companies with a growing Regulated Asset Value 18.9% 8.2% 27.4% SSE has an ownership interest in five SSE is involved in: electricity The RAV is the price paid SSE owns and invests in  energy network transmission, electricity for  three electricity networks distribution: gas distribution energy networks when they companies: Scottish Hydro companies: through Scotia Gas Networks were privatised plus allowed Electric Transmission: Scottish and other networks-related capital expenditure less Hydro Electric Power Distribution: Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission businesses in lighting services, depreciation.
It is indexed and Southern Electric Power utility solutions and telecoms.
to the Retail Price Index.
100% : Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution 100% : Southern Electric Power Distribution Customer minutes lost Utility Solutions Lighting Services 100% : north electricity networks PFI contracts Scotland Gas Networks 50% : and Southern Gas Networks 50%.
73 137 11 SSE estimates that the total Regulated Asset Value RAV of its economically- 0.0% 16.1% 0.0% regulated natural monopoly businesses Customer minutes lost is the SSEs Utility Solutions business SSEs Lighting Services business is now 6.36bn, up 477.0m from 5.88bn average number of minutes that designs, builds, owns and is the UK and Irelands largest customers are without electricity operates networks for electricity, streetlighting contractor, last year, comprising around: supply in a year.
SSEs north of gas, water and heat.
The involved in the maintenance Scotland network distributes electricity networks are outside and replacement of public 1,050m for electricity transmission: electricity to around 800,000 SSEs two distribution areas.
2,915m for electricity distribution: and 2,392m for gas distribution ie50% of SGNs total RAV.
Key topics in this section SSE is the only energy company in the UK to be involved in electricity transmission, Exceptional weather event on Arran and Kintyre electricity distribution and gas distribution.
See page 32 for more information Through Price Controls, Ofgem sets the index-linked revenue the network Upgrading Scotlands electricity transmission network companies can earn through charges levied See page 32 for more information on users to cover costs and earn a return on their regulated assets.
These lower-risk Innovating for the future of electricity networks  natural monopoly See page 35 for more information businesses provide a financial backbone and operational focus for SSE and balance its activities in the competitive Wholesale and Retail markets.
They are core to SSE, to its strategy in the short-, mediumand long-term and to its ability to deliver sustained real dividend growth.
