Financial statements Financial statements Accompanying information for the year ended 31 March 2013 This section explains the significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and provides details of the Groups principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and subsidiaries.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies Basis of consolidation The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its jointly controlled entities and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries including special purpose entities are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase method of accounting.
The special purpose entities referred to relate to entities in which the Group has a 50% shareholding but whose activities the Group is deemed to control under SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities.
In the Company, investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence but not control over the financial and operating policies, normally where the Group has a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method and are recognised initially at cost.
The cost of the investment includes transaction costs.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of associates, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
In the Company, investments in associates are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Joint Ventures Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
In the consolidated financial statements, investments are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and are recognised initially at cost.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of jointly controlled entities, after adjustments to align the accounting policies with those of the Group.
Jointly controlled operations are businesses which use assets and liabilities that are separable from the rest of the Group.
In these arrangements, the Group accounts for its own share of property, plant and equipment, carries its own inventories, incurs its own expenses and liabilities and raises its own finance.
In the Company, investments in jointly controlled entities are carried at cost less any impairment charges.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from Intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
