Intangible assets have been analysed as current and non-current as follows: 2013 2012 m m Current 368.4 365.7 Non-current: Goodwill 635.8 627.5 Other 282.2 218.8 1,286.4 1,212.0 129 Financial statements Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 13.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued a Impairment review of goodwill and basis of other impairment reviews Goodwill is allocated to those cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the respective business combination for impairment testing purposes.
Certain goodwill valuations have changed in the current year following retranslation.
A summary of the goodwill allocated to CGUs and the groups operating segments is presented below: 2013 2012 Cash-generating unit Operating segment m m Ireland wind farms Electricity Generation and Energy Portfolio Management 153.1 153.1 UK wind farms Electricity Generation and Energy Portfolio Management 199.9 199.9 UK Supply Energy Supply 187.0 187.0 UK Generation Electricity Generation and Energy Portfolio Management 10.1 10.1 Gas Storage Gas Storage 26.2 26.2 Exploration and Production Gas Production 38.1 38.1 1 Other Networks Other Networks 10.6 10.6 1 Energy-related Services Energy-related Services 2.5 2.5 1 Ireland Supply Energy Supply 8.3 635.8 627.5 1.
Represents goodwill balances related to acquisitions of Telecoms, Streetlighting Other Networks and Contracting businesses Energy-related services businesses and the Phoenix gas supply acquisition in the current financial year 8.3m, which represents related deferred tax items.
The amount of goodwill related to these businesses is not significant in context of the aggregate carrying value of the business units or the aggregate value of goodwill held by the Group.
Following review, it is concluded that no impairment is required.
The recoverable amounts of the UK Supply, Gas Storage and Exploration and Production CGUs are determined by reference to value-in-use calculations.
The impairment review of the UK Generation CGU has been discontinued and is commented upon below.
The value-in-use calculations use, as a starting point, pre-tax cash flow projections based on the Groups five year business model as approved by the Board.
The Groups business model is based on past experience and reflects the Groups forward view of markets, prices, risks and its strategic objectives.
Commodity prices used are based on observable market data and, where this is not available, on internal estimates.
The recoverable amount of the various wind farm CGUs is based on the fair value less costs to sell methodology.
The basis applied has been deemed appropriate as it is consistent with the way in which the economic values of the individual CGUs are assessed by management and would be by other market participants.
The method applied is to determine fair value by assessing the discounted pre-tax cash flows expected to be earned by the individual wind farm projects within the respective CGUs.
The two identified CGUs Ireland wind farms and UK wind farms share many of the same risk factors and are discounted accordingly.
The key assumptions used for the main value-in-use calculations are as follows: 2013 and 2012 2013 2012 Cash flow Discount rate Discount rate projection period Cash-generating unit Operating segment % % years Ireland and UK wind farms onshore and offshore Electricity Generation and Energy Portfolio Management 7.0%-9.0% 7.0%-9.0% Up to 25 UK Supply Energy Supply 7.3% 8.3% 5 UK Generation excluding wind Electricity Generation and Energy Portfolio Management 7.3% 8.3% Up to 15 Gas Storage Gas Storage 7.3% 8.3% 25 Exploration and Production Gas Production 8.0%-10.0% 8.0%-10.0% Life of field Management have determined the pre-tax cash flows of each CGU based on past performance and its expectations of market development.
Further detail on how the cash flow projections have been derived is included in the specific commentaries.
The discount rates used are pre-tax real and reflect specific risks attributable to the relevant operating segments.
The discount rates used have been benchmarked against externally published rates used by comparable quoted companies operating in the respective market sectors.
The recoverable amount derived from the value-in-use calculation is compared to the carrying amount of each CGU to determine whether the respective CGUs require to be impaired.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Specific comments on the key value-in-use and fair value less costs to sell calculations for the main CGUs and the results of the tests conducted follow: All wind farm CGUs For goodwill impairment testing purposes, the significant wind farm CGUs were established following the acquisition of the SSE Renewables formerly Airtricity business in 2008.
In order to assess the respective recoverable amounts against an appropriate carrying value, goodwill was allocated to the main geographic regions in which the business operates.
The established CGUs Ireland and UK have subsequently been assessed by considering the specific market attributes of those regions.
Currency cash flows are set at the exchange rate at the time the impairment test is conducted.
Aside from these specific market factors, the basis of review of the respective CGUs is identical.
The goodwill associated with the rest of Europe has been fully impaired in previous years.
Wind farm projects have an estimated useful life of up to 25 years and it is considered appropriate by management to assess the carrying amount against cash flow projections covering this period.
The Ireland and UK wind CGUs include wind farms in operation and both CGUs include projects in the construction phase or in the development portfolio phase.
These development projects are those which have not received consent or have not concluded all environmental or planning studies and as a consequence the associated cash flows have been probability adjusted.
Cash inflows for all projects are based on expected generation output based on wind studies and past experience and are valued atforward power prices based on available market information, continuing government support mechanisms for wind and internal model assumptions.
Cash outflows are based on planned capital expenditure and expected maintenance costs.
The power prices and costs of operation are the most significant distinguishing factors in the respective CGU regions.
Growth is based on the expected output of the respective wind farms at their available operational capacity over their life cycle and on delivery of projects in the development pipeline.
Outcome of tests The recoverable amounts of the UK and Ireland wind farm CGUs exceeded the respective carrying values at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the fair value less costs-to-sell would not cause a change to the conclusion reached.
UK Supply Goodwill carried in relation to the acquisition, in 2001, of SWALEC is attributed to the Groups UK retail electricity and gas supply business CGU.
The CGU is equivalent to the new Energy Supply reported segment with the exception of the Airtricity supply business in Ireland.
Margins assumed in the value-in-use test are based on historic and projected gross margin percentages.
Revenues are based on the expected market share derived from the market share at the time of the approval of the business model adjusted for forecasted growth.
Growth in customer numbers is moderate over the forecast period and cash outflows associated with increased customer service areincorporated accordingly.
This growth rate is supported by reference to both past performance and management expectation.
Outcome of test The recoverable amount of the UK Supply CGU exceeded the respective carrying value at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the value-in-use would not cause a change to the conclusion reached.
UK Generation excluding wind Goodwill of 10.1m is carried by the Group in relation to acquired deferred tax temporary differences.
No other goodwill balances related to the UK Generation CGU were held at March 2011 and March 2012.
The operational plants in Electricity Generation and Energy Portfolio Management are operated as part of the integrated business segment.
All main thermal generation plants exhibiting indications of impairment due to market conditions and operational deployment decisions have been assessed to ascertain the impact on carrying values see Note 14.
Gas Storage Goodwill was recognised on the acquisition of the Hornsea gas storage facility in 2003.
Initial cash flow projections are based on gross margins expected to be achieved in the period of the five year business model.
Beyond this period, cash flows have been extrapolated at a growth rate lower than the long-term growth rate of the economy to the end of the assets expected economic lives.
This longer period is necessary due to the long-term infrastructure nature of these assets but will consequently introduce less certainty into the valuation process.
Assumptions on margin for the business plan period are based on expected demand for gas storage and take into account published and projected gas wholesale prices, planned capital expenditure required to maintain the value of the facility and estimated operating costs.
131 Financial statements Notes on the financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2013 13.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Outcome of test The prospects in the medium term for the CGU continue to be impacted by lower volatility in the gas market and lower demand for gas from generating plants.
However, no further impairment has been recognised in the financial year following consideration of the immediate and longer term economic viability of the CGU.
An impairment charge of 30.0m was recognised in the previous financial year and reasonably possible changes in assumptions could further impair the remaining goodwill balance of 26.2m.
It is noted that there remains inherent imprecision in the valuation process for these long-term infrastructure assets which is dependent upon a number of macro-economic factors.
Exploration and production Goodwill was recognised on the purchase of North Sea assets in 2011.
Goodwill was been attributed to three cash generating units being the three main field development areas Bacton, Easington Catchment Area ECA and Lomond Everest and their supporting infrastructure assets.
Indications of impairment at asset field level are investigated separately.
All goodwill was derived from the recognition of deferred tax temporary liabilities.
The impairment test assumptions are based on forward prices of gas or oil, timing of cash flows including capital and abandonment costs, reserves information and discount rates.
Outcome of test The recoverable amount of all Exploration and Production CGUs continued to exceed their carrying value at the time of the impairment test.
While cash flow projections are subject to inherent uncertainty, reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions applied in assessing the recoverable amount would not cause a change to the test outcome.
b Other intangible assets i Allowances and Certificates Allowances and Certificates consist of purchased carbon emissions allowances and generated or purchased renewable obligations certificates ROCs.
In the year to 31 March 2013, the Group recognised an exceptional impairment charge of 139.2m 2012 71.9m against the value of carbon emissions allowances held following the impairment reviews of its thermal generation assets and the economic prospects for those plants.
This is commented in more detail at Note 6. ii Development assets Development costs relate to the design, construction and testing of thermal and renewable generation sites and devices, including wind farms, which the Group believes will generate probable future economic benefits.
Costs capitalised as development intangibles include options over land rights, planning application costs, environmental impact studies and other costs incurred in bringing wind farm and other generation and network development projects to the consented stage.
These may be costs incurred directly or at a cost as part of the fair value attribution on acquisition.
Development assets also includes the Groups exploration and evaluation expenditure in relation to exploration wells.
At the point the development reaches the consent stage and is approved for construction, the carrying value is transferred to Property, Plant and Equipment Note 14.
At the point a project is no longer expected to reach the consented stage, the carrying amount of the project is impaired.
The acquisitions in the year are summarised in Note 18.
Exceptional impairment charges of 25.5m were recognised in relation to UK wind farm developments 20.0m and other development projects 5.5m.
In the prior year, an exceptional charge was recognised in relation to a prospective oil field and an offshore wind project 37.4m.
iii Other intangible assets Included within other intangible assets are brands, customer lists, contracts, application software licence fees, software development work, software upgrades and purchased PC software packages.
Amortisation is over the shorter of the contract term or five years with the exception of certain application software assets, which are amortised over 10 years.
