Financial statements Financial statements Notes on the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 1.
General information and basis of preparation General information SSE plc the Company is a company domiciled in Scotland.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The Groups operations and its principal activities are set out earlier in this Report at pages 12 to 60.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 comprise those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own income statement and related notes.
Basis of preparation Statement of compliance The financial statements were authorised for issue by the directors on 21 May 2013.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and its interpretations as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRS.
Going Concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future despite net current liabilities of 855.4m.
The financial statements are therefore prepared on a Going Concern basis.
Further details of the Groups liquidity position and Going Concern review are provided in Note 33 of the Financial statements on page 161.
Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Group and the Company are prepared on the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments, biological assets and the assets of the Group pension scheme which are stated at their fair value, and the liabilities of the Group pension schemes which are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The Directors believe the financial statements present a true and fair view.
The financial statements of the Group and Company are presented in pounds Sterling.
Operations and transactions conducted in currencies other than pounds Sterling are included in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the Groups foreign currencies accounting policy.
Use of estimates and judgements The preparation of financial statements conforming with adopted IFRS requires the use of certain accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher level of judgement or estimation are summarised at pages 113 and 114.
Summary of significant new accounting policies and reporting changes The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below and in the Accompanying Information section A1 on pages 173 to 181.
New standards, amendments and interpretations There are no new standards, amendments or interpretations that are effective for the first time for the current financial year that have had a material impact on the Group.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, there were a number of new standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations in issue that have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The group has no plan to adopt these standards earlier than the effective date.
Those that are most relevant to the Group are set out below.
IAS 19, Employee benefits, was amended in June 2011 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
For defined benefit plans, the Group will change its measurement principles by replacing the interest costs and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability including the IFRIC 14 Liability.
There will also be a corresponding change in the amount recognised in other comprehensive income, so that the net impact on total comprehensive income and net assets will be nil.
If this standard had been applied to the year ended 31 March 2013, it is estimated the interest income would have been reduced by approximately 34m.
IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial statements, which establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities and requirements management to exercise judgement over which entities are required to be consolidated.
IFRS 11 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, under IFRS 11 the structure of the joint arrangement, although still an important consideration, is no longer the main factor in determining the type of joint arrangement and therefore subsequent accounting.
The Group may need to reclassify its joint arrangements, which may lead to changes in current accounting for these interests.
