Strategic overview Chairmans statement Lord Smith of Kelvin SSEs core purpose is to provide the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
In fulfilling this purpose, SSE requires the support of shareholders, to whom this report is addressed.
It summarises SSEs performance in 2012 13 and its plans for 2013 14 and beyond.
In consecutive weeks in the early spring performance in the future, have been of 2013, SSE confronted two of the biggest consistent features of SSE since the issues it has had to face since it was company was formed in 1998.
The last week of March consistent feature of the company has saw extreme snow falls and ice in the west been the first financial objective of its of Scotland which inflicted unprecedented business model and strategy: to deliver damage on the electricity network on sustained real growth in the dividend Arran and Kintyre.
Over 500 engineers payable to shareholders.
and other employees from the company were deployed to help restore electricity Throughout this time, Ian Marchant has supplies to households, businesses and been a remarkably successful finance other premises, working closely with director and then chief executive of SSE.
a wide range of authorities and agencies.
He is the first to acknowledge, however, This was SSE at its best.
how much he owes to Alistair PhillipsDavies and Gregor Alexander and SSE is The first week of April saw the Gas and fortunate indeed to have these two very Electricity Markets Authority announce able and experienced executives, and a a 10.5m penalty on SSE for breaches of very strong management team generally, licence conditions in relation to sales of to take forward the business after Ian, electricity and gas, mainly between 2009 having completed an exceptional decade and 2011.
Like everyone else associated as chief executive, steps down at the end with SSE I have no hesitation in apologising of next month.
unequivocally for the breaches that occurred: but while the breaches were While there will be a change of Chief clearly wrong, the response has been Executive in the company, and while the absolutely right.
SSE has undertaken major energy sector is subject to change driven reform of its Retail operations since 2011, by regulation, legislation, technology, including introducing a sales guarantee to demand for natural resources and the make good any financial loss experienced needs of customers, there are four things by customers joining SSE, and launching at SSE that wont change: the balanced in 2013 the industrys first-ever customer business model: the focus on operations service guarantee, backed by a financial and investment: the dedication to commitment.
This is now SSE at its best, too.
customer service: and the commitment to sustained real growth in the dividend A generally good performance in 2012 13 in the years ahead.
enabled SSE to extend its unbroken record of annual increases in the full-year dividend Lord Smith of Kelvin and in adjusted profit before tax.
This ability Chairman to deliver consistently increases in the fullyear dividend and in adjusted profit before tax shows the resilience inherent in its balanced model of  and market-based energy businesses and the robustness of its strategy of focusing on operations and investments in each of those businesses.
Strategic overview Strategy The key features of SSEs strategy: Our aim: SSEs principal financial Focus on core values objective is to deliver Companies have to earn profits the right way and the SSE SET of values is designed to help deliver this: Safety, Service, Efficiency, annual above-inflation Sustainability, Excellence and Teamwork.
See pages 14 and 64. increases in the Maintaining a dividend payable balanced business to shareholders.
Its Networks, Retail and Wholesale businesses give SSE strong foundations and diverse sources from which to achieve growth in the dividend, while reducing SSEs strategy is to deliver sustained real growth in the dividend the risks associated with over-exposure payable to shareholders through the efficient operation of, and to one part of the energy sector.
investment in, a balanced range of  and market-based businesses in energy production, storage, distribution, See page 14. supply and related services in the UK and Ireland.
Sticking to our Dividend per share financial principles SSE adopts a prudent approach through 84.2p maintenance of a strong balance sheet, focus on achieving investment returns 5.1% greater than the cost of capital, a disciplined approach to acquisitions and measuring financial decisions against share buy backs.
80 Setting clear long- 60 term priorities Shareholders investment should be 40 remunerated through dividends because they provide the biggest source of return over the long term and commitment to 20 dividend growth demands a long-term approach to operations, investments and acquisitions.
