Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2013 IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial 1.
Accounting Policies of Stobart Group Limited Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 1 January 2014 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Basis of Preparation and Statement of Compliance Improvements to IFRS issued May 2010 Various Dates The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IFRIC statements are set out below.
The policies have been consistently applied to standards and interpretations.
As the Group prepares its financial statements all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application These Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with of new standards and interpretations will be subject to them having been International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations endorsed for use in the EU via the EU Endorsement Mechanism.
In the as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with that given for the Company are presented after the financial statements for the Group.
in the original standard or interpretation but the need for endorsement The financial statements of the Group are also prepared in accordance with restricts the Groups discretion to early adopt standards.
The change to IAS 19 means the expected return on plan assets and the Stobart Group Limited is a Guernsey registered company.
The Companys interest cost on liabilities in the income statement are replaced by interest on ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
the net defined benefit liability using the discount rate used to measure the The financial statements have been prepared on a Going Concern basis.
defined benefit obligation: this changes the allocation of the total return on plan assets between the income statement and other comprehensive income.
Going Concern Management expects this change to increase the interest charge The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future proportionate to the deficit in the scheme from time to time.
There will be an performance and position, are set out in the Chief Executive Officers Report increase in the interest charge commensurate with the deficit in the pension and Chief Operating Officers Report on pages 3 to 10 and the financial position schemes as disclosed in note 23.
Except for this change to IAS 19, the of the Group, its cash flows and funding are set out in the Operational and Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and Financial Review on pages 14 to 26. interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
In addition, Note 22 to the financial statements includes details of the Groups loans and borrowings at the year end together with the Groups objectives, policies Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives: Revenue details of its financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Revenue from the Stobart Transport & Distribution, Stobart Estates, Stobart Air The Group has considerable financial resources, together with contracts with a and Stobart Biomass business segments is recognised in the income statement number of customers and suppliers.
The financial forecasts show that borrowing at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade facilities are adequate such that the Group can operate within these facilities discounts, volume rebates and VAT.
Revenue is recognised when significant risks and meet its obligations when they fall due for the foreseeable future.
As a and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, recovery of consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its the consideration is probable, the associated costs and possible return of goods business risks successfully despite the current economic climate.
can be estimated reliably, there is no continuing management involvement with After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the the goods and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
If it is probable Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the that discounts will be granted and the amount can be measured reliably, then forseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on the discount is recognised as a reduction of revenue as the sales are recognised.
Stobart Estates also recognises rental income from investment property.
This Restatement of 29 February 2012 Financial Information revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental The results of the Chilled transport business for the year to 29 February 2012 income, over the term of the lease.
have been restated as discontinued operations.
This is required by IFRS 5 to Stobart Infrastructure and Civil Engineering contract revenue includes the be consistent with the treatment in the current year.
See Note 4 for further details.
initial amount agreed in the contract plus any variations in contract work, The accounting for the acquisition of WADI Properties Limited in the prior year claims and incentive payments, to the extent that it is probable that they will has been amended to revise the provisional assessment of fair values at result in revenue and can be measured reliably.
When the outcome of a acquisition and to reflect the agreed position as set out in the completion construction contract can be estimated reliably, contract revenue is accounts.
This is a hindsight adjustment to acquisition fair values as permitted recognised in profit or loss in proportion to the stage of completion of the by IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
See Note 5 for further details.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work Changes in Accounting Policy and Disclosures performed.
When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable.
Contract expenses financial period except as follows: are recognised as incurred unless they create an asset related to future a New standards, amendments to existing standards and contract activity.
An expected loss on a contract is recognised immediately interpretations to existing standards adopted by the Group: in profit or loss.
The IASB issued its third omnibus Revenue is analysed by segment in Note 3. of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing Functional and Presentation Currency inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional The Companys functional currency is Pounds Sterling GBP and it has provisions for each amendment.
The adoption of the amendments has adopted Pounds Sterling GBP as its presentational currency.
resulted in some changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Basis of Consolidation b New standards and interpretations not applied: Where the Company has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the The following standards and interpretations have an effective date after financial and operating policies of another entity or business so as to obtain the date of these financial statements: benefits from its activities, it is classified as a subsidiary.
The consolidated financial statements present the results of Stobart Group Limited and its International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective date subsidiaries the Group as if they formed a single entity.
Intercompany IFRS 9 Financial Instruments transactions and balances between Group companies are therefore Classification and Measurement 1 January 2015 eliminated in full.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IAS 27 Business Combinations Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2014 Business combinations from 1 March 2010: Business combinations are IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IAS 28 accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is Investments in Associates measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014 acquisition date fair value on the amount of any non-controlling interest in the IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 acquiree.
Acquisition costs are expensed and included in transaction costs IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 which are reported below underlying profit.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 1 January 2013 Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 60
