Under the equity method, the investment in the associate is carried in the charged to the Consolidated Income Statement in specific periods.
More Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at cost plus post acquisition details including carrying values are included in Notes 13 and 16. changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate.
Goodwill relating c Share-Based Payment: Equity-settled transactions: The Group has to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not equity settled share-based remuneration schemes for employees and amortised.
The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations Directors.
Employee and Director services received, and the of the associate but the loss is limited to the equity investment made.
Where corresponding increase in equity, are measured by reference to the fair there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate, the value of the equity instruments at the date of grant, excluding the impact Group recognises its share of any changes and discloses this, when applicable, of any non-market vesting conditions.
The fair value of share options in the statement of changes in equity and the statement of other comprehensive granted without market based vesting conditions is estimated by using income.
Profits and losses resulting from transactions between the Group and a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of share options granted with the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate.
market based vesting conditions is estimated by using a Monte Carlo After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is model.
These valuations are based on certain assumptions.
Those necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups assumptions are described in Note 25 and include, among others, the investment in its associates.
The Group determines at each statement of dividend yield, expected volatility and expected life of the options.
financial position date whether there is any objective evidence that the d Determination of fair values of intangible assets acquired in business investment in the associate is impaired.
If this is the case and there is a combinations and in investments in associates and joint ventures: resulting impairment, the amount is recognised in the income statement.
Determining the existence and the fair value of intangible assets on Losses of an associate are recognised only to the extent of the Groups business combinations and in investments in associates and joint interest in the associate, unless the Group has incurred legal or constructive ventures involves judgments and estimates.
Estimates include obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
determining future cash flows and discount rates.
e Taxation: The current and deferred taxation balances are calculated Joint Ventures making certain tax assumptions about the tax treatment of incomes and Investments in joint ventures, which are jointly controlled entities, are included costs, and the availability of certain losses for group relief.
More details in the financial statements using the equity method of accounting unless the are disclosed in Note 10.
The recognition of deferred tax balances investment is classified as held for sale.
requires application of judgments over the determination of the tax bases, Under the equity method, the interest in the joint venture is initially recorded the levels of future profits and the likelihood of reversals of temporary at cost and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Groups differences.
share of net assets of the joint venture.
Goodwill relating to the joint venture f Classification of certain vehicle leases: Certain vehicle leases contain is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not amortised.
buyback arrangements at the end of the initial lease term.
The classification The income statement reflects the share of the results of operations of the of the leases as finance leases or operating leases in the financial joint venture.
Where there has been a change recognised directly in the equity statements requires judgment over the risk and rewards of ownership.
of the joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes and g Investment property valuations: The determined fair value of the discloses this, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity and investment properties are in accordance with independent valuations.
The the statement of other comprehensive income.
Profits and losses resulting fair value is most sensitive to the estimated yield as well as long term from transactions between the Group and the joint ventures are eliminated vacancy rate.
The determination of the profit or loss on sale and leaseback to the extent of the interest in the joint venture.
transactions includes judgement over the level of the lease payments and After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is overall lease package compared with the market rates available.
necessary to recognise an additional impairment loss on the Groups h Sale and leaseback transactions: The determination of the profit or loss investment in its joint ventures.
The Group determines at each statement of on sale and leaseback transactions includes judgement over the level of financial position date whether there is any objective evidence that the the lease payments and overall lease package compared with the market investment in the joint venture is impaired.
If this is the case and there is a rates available.
resulting impairment, the amount is recognised in the income statement.
Losses of a joint venture are recognised only to the extent of the Groups interest in the joint venture, unless the Group has incurred legal or constructive 3.
Segmental Information obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
The operating segments within continuing operations are Stobart Transport & Distribution, Stobart Estates, Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering, 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Judgements, Stobart Air and Stobart Biomass.
Estimates and Assumptions The Stobart Transport & Distribution segment specialises in contract logistics including road haulage, rail freight, ports handling and warehousing.
The Group makes judgments, estimates and assumptions regarding the future.
The Stobart Estates segment specialises in management, development and Judgments, estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated based on realisation of land and buildings assets.
historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
In the future, actual The Stobart Infrastructure & Civil Engineering segment specialises in experience may differ from these estimates and assumptions.
The judgments, delivering internal and external infrastructure and development projects estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material including rail network operations.
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next The Stobart Air segment specialises in operation of commercial airports.
financial year are discussed below.
The Stobart Biomass segment specialises in supply of sustainable biomass for the generation of renewable energy.
Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions The Executive Directors are regarded as the Chief Operating Decision Maker a Impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets: The Group CODM.
The Directors monitor the results of its business units separately for is required to test, on an annual basis, whether goodwill and indefinite the purposes of making decisions about resource allocation and performance life intangible assets have suffered any impairment.
The main segmental profit measures are earnings before amount is determined based on value in use or fair value less costs of interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation and also profit before tax, both disposal calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of shown before separately disclosed items.
future cash flows and discount rates in order to calculate the present Income taxes, non-fleet finance costs and certain central costs are managed value of the cash flows.
Further information on a Group basis and are not allocated to operating segments.
These costs including carrying values is set out in Note 16. are included in adjustments and eliminations.
b Useful lives of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment: Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful lives.
Useful lives are based on the Directors estimates of the period that the assets will generate revenue, which are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness.
Changes to estimates could result in significant variations in the carrying value and amounts Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 64 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2013, continued Period ended 28 February 2013 Stobart Stobart Stobart Stobart Stobart Adjustments Group Transport & Estates Infrastructure Air Biomass and Distribution & Civil Eng.
