Notes to the Company Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2013 A.
Accounting Policies of Stobart Group Limited B.
Administrative Expenses 2013 2012 Basis of preparation 000 000 The separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations Other expenses comprise the following: as adopted by European Union adopted IFRSs.
Management credit from subsidiary companies - 829 The separate financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling GBP Other Expenses 5,157 6,360 and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except where Share-Based Payment 485 120 otherwise stated.
Auditor Remuneration The accounting policies that are used in the preparation of these separate Audit of Financial Statements 162 80 financials statements are consistent with accounting policies used in the Tax Consultancy Fees 190 82 preparation of the consolidated financial statements of Stobart Group Limited.
The following accounting policies are detailed in Note 1 of the Group financial 5,994 5,813 statements: RevenueFunctional and Presentational Currency C. Finance CostsCash and cash equivalentsFinancial instruments 2013 2012Financial AssetsLoans and receivables 000 000 Financial LiabilitiesShare Capital Own shares held by EBTRetirement Benefits: Bank Loans and Loan Notes Treasury Shares Defined Contribution Schemes Interest Payable 3,247 2,152 Share-Based PaymentsCurrent Taxation Deferred TaxationDividends 3,247 2,152 Property, Plant and EquipmentAssociates Joint Ventures D. Finance Income Judgements, Estimates and Assumptions 2013 2012 The Company makes judgements, estimates and assumptions regarding the 000 000 future.
Judgements, estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of Finance Income comprises the following: future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
In the future, actual experience may differ from these estimates and Interest receivable from Subsidiary Companies 2,026 1,534 assumptions.
There were no judgements, estimates or assumptions deemed Bank and Other Interest 154 119 to have had a material impact upon the financial statements in the current or prior year.
2,180 1,653 The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
a Useful lives of Property, Plant and Equipment: Plant and equipment are amortised or depreciated over their useful lives.
Useful lives are based on the Directors estimates of the period that the assets will generate revenue, which are periodically reviewed for continued appropriateness.
Changes to estimates can result in significant variations in the carrying value and amounts charged to the Income Statement in specific periods.
b Share-Based Payment: Equity-Settled Transactions: The Company has equity settled share-based remuneration schemes for employees and Directors.
Employee and Director services received, and the corresponding increase in equity, are measured by reference to the fair value of the equity instruments at the date of grant, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
The fair value of share options granted without market based vesting conditions is estimated by using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of share options granted with market based vesting conditions is estimated by using a Monte Carlo model.
These valuations are based on certain assumptions.
c Investments in Subsidiaries and Recoverability of Loans to Subsidiaries: The company has investments in subsidiary undertakings which are recorded at cost less impairment.
An assessment is made by the Directors of any potential impairments by reference to underlying net assets, trading performance and other indicators they may be aware of.
In making this assessment the Directors also assess the recoverability of loans to subsidiary undertakings and provide against such amounts if required.
