Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2013 IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial 1.
Accounting Policies of Stobart Group Limited Liabilities Amendments to IAS 32 1 January 2014 International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC Basis of Preparation and Statement of Compliance Improvements to IFRS issued May 2010 Various Dates The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial The effective dates stated above are those given in the original IFRIC statements are set out below.
The policies have been consistently applied to standards and interpretations.
As the Group prepares its financial statements all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, the application These Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with of new standards and interpretations will be subject to them having been International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and IFRIC interpretations endorsed for use in the EU via the EU Endorsement Mechanism.
In the as adopted by the European Union adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements majority of cases this will result in an effective date consistent with that given for the Company are presented after the financial statements for the Group.
in the original standard or interpretation but the need for endorsement The financial statements of the Group are also prepared in accordance with restricts the Groups discretion to early adopt standards.
The change to IAS 19 means the expected return on plan assets and the Stobart Group Limited is a Guernsey registered company.
The Companys interest cost on liabilities in the income statement are replaced by interest on ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
the net defined benefit liability using the discount rate used to measure the The financial statements have been prepared on a Going Concern basis.
defined benefit obligation: this changes the allocation of the total return on plan assets between the income statement and other comprehensive income.
Going Concern Management expects this change to increase the interest charge The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future proportionate to the deficit in the scheme from time to time.
There will be an performance and position, are set out in the Chief Executive Officers Report increase in the interest charge commensurate with the deficit in the pension and Chief Operating Officers Report on pages 3 to 10 and the financial position schemes as disclosed in note 23.
Except for this change to IAS 19, the of the Group, its cash flows and funding are set out in the Operational and Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and Financial Review on pages 14 to 26. interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
In addition, Note 22 to the financial statements includes details of the Groups loans and borrowings at the year end together with the Groups objectives, policies Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives: Revenue details of its financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Revenue from the Stobart Transport & Distribution, Stobart Estates, Stobart Air The Group has considerable financial resources, together with contracts with a and Stobart Biomass business segments is recognised in the income statement number of customers and suppliers.
The financial forecasts show that borrowing at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns, trade facilities are adequate such that the Group can operate within these facilities discounts, volume rebates and VAT.
Revenue is recognised when significant risks and meet its obligations when they fall due for the foreseeable future.
As a and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, recovery of consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its the consideration is probable, the associated costs and possible return of goods business risks successfully despite the current economic climate.
can be estimated reliably, there is no continuing management involvement with After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the the goods and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
If it is probable Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the that discounts will be granted and the amount can be measured reliably, then forseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on the discount is recognised as a reduction of revenue as the sales are recognised.
Stobart Estates also recognises rental income from investment property.
This Restatement of 29 February 2012 Financial Information revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental The results of the Chilled transport business for the year to 29 February 2012 income, over the term of the lease.
have been restated as discontinued operations.
This is required by IFRS 5 to Stobart Infrastructure and Civil Engineering contract revenue includes the be consistent with the treatment in the current year.
See Note 4 for further details.
initial amount agreed in the contract plus any variations in contract work, The accounting for the acquisition of WADI Properties Limited in the prior year claims and incentive payments, to the extent that it is probable that they will has been amended to revise the provisional assessment of fair values at result in revenue and can be measured reliably.
When the outcome of a acquisition and to reflect the agreed position as set out in the completion construction contract can be estimated reliably, contract revenue is accounts.
This is a hindsight adjustment to acquisition fair values as permitted recognised in profit or loss in proportion to the stage of completion of the by IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
See Note 5 for further details.
The stage of completion is assessed by reference to surveys of work Changes in Accounting Policy and Disclosures performed.
When the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous contract costs incurred that are likely to be recoverable.
Contract expenses financial period except as follows: are recognised as incurred unless they create an asset related to future a New standards, amendments to existing standards and contract activity.
An expected loss on a contract is recognised immediately interpretations to existing standards adopted by the Group: in profit or loss.
The IASB issued its third omnibus Revenue is analysed by segment in Note 3. of amendments to its standards, primarily with a view to removing Functional and Presentation Currency inconsistencies and clarifying wording.
There are separate transitional The Companys functional currency is Pounds Sterling GBP and it has provisions for each amendment.
The adoption of the amendments has adopted Pounds Sterling GBP as its presentational currency.
resulted in some changes to accounting policies but did not have any impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
Basis of Consolidation b New standards and interpretations not applied: Where the Company has the power, either directly or indirectly, to govern the The following standards and interpretations have an effective date after financial and operating policies of another entity or business so as to obtain the date of these financial statements: benefits from its activities, it is classified as a subsidiary.
The consolidated financial statements present the results of Stobart Group Limited and its International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs Effective date subsidiaries the Group as if they formed a single entity.
Intercompany IFRS 9 Financial Instruments transactions and balances between Group companies are therefore Classification and Measurement 1 January 2015 eliminated in full.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IAS 27 Business Combinations Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2014 Business combinations from 1 March 2010: Business combinations are IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IAS 28 accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is Investments in Associates measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014 acquisition date fair value on the amount of any non-controlling interest in the IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 acquiree.
Acquisition costs are expensed and included in transaction costs IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement 1 January 2013 which are reported below underlying profit.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 1 January 2013 Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 60 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2013, continued When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and indicators of impairment.
Other non-financial assets are subject to impairment liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Where the carrying value of an conditions as at the acquisition date.
asset exceeds its recoverable amount i. e. the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell, the asset is written down accordingly.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried out on the assets cash-generating unit Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of i. e. the lowest group of assets in which the asset belongs for which there the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount are separately identifiable cash inflows.
Goodwill is allocated on initial recognised for the non-controlling interest and where the business recognition to each of the Groups cash-generating units that are expected combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the to benefit from the synergies of the combination giving rise to the goodwill.
acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the Impairment charges are included in the consolidated income statement, business combination.
except to the extent they reverse gains previously recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income.
Impairment losses Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or except losses relating to goodwill can be reversed in certain circumstances.
separability criterion are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisitionAn assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any date fair value can be measured reliably.
indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is transferred and where the business combination is achieved in stages, the estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
If that is the case the liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That acquired, the difference is recognised in profit and loss below underlying profit.
increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss unless the in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of asset is carried at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash generating units that revaluation increase.
After such a reversal the depreciation charge is adjusted are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level Cash and Cash Equivalents within the entity at which goodwill is monitored for internal management Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash in hand, demand deposits, purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
and highly liquid investments readily convertible to known amounts of cash Business combinations prior to 1 March 2010: Business combinations were and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
accounted for using the purchase method.
Transaction costs directly Financial Instruments attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs.
The minority interest is accounted for using the parent-entity extension method, The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps whereby the difference between the consideration paid and the book value to hedge its cash flow risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Derivative of the share in net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair Goodwill was initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of business value at each reporting date.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair combination over the groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Where the net fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities was greater than The fair value of interest rate swaps are determined by reference to market the cost of investment, the difference was recognised in profit and loss.
For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting Research and Development is desired, the hedging relationship is formally designated and documented at Expenditure on research activities, undertaken with the prospect of gaining its inception.
This documentation identifies the risk management objective and new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding, is recognised in strategy for undertaking the hedge, the hedging instrument, the hedged item profit or loss as incurred.
or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how effectiveness will Development activities involve a plan or design for the production of new or be measured throughout its duration.
Such hedges are expected at inception substantially improved products and processes.
Development expenditure is to be highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows and are assessed at capitalised only if development costs can be measured reliably, the product or the end of each reporting period to determine that they are actually effective process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are throughout the reporting period for which they were designated.
probable, and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the asset.
The expenditure capitalised includes For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging the cost of materials, direct labour, overhead costs that are directly attributable instrument is recognised directly as other comprehensive income in the net to preparing the asset for its intended use, and capitalised borrowing costs.
unrealised gains reserve, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the Other development expenditure is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects the Capitalised development expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated current period income statement.
amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Foreign Currency Goodwill Transactions entered into by Group entities in a currency other than the Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over currency of the primary economic environment in which they operate their the interest in the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent functional currency are recorded at the rates ruling when the transactions liabilities acquired.
Cost comprises the fair values of assets given, liabilities occur.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated at the incurred and equity instruments issued.
rates ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Goodwill is capitalised as an intangible asset with any impairment in carrying Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of unsettled monetary assets value being charged to the consolidated income statement.
Where the fair and liabilities are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceed the fair The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at value of consideration paid, the excess is credited in full to the consolidated the rate of exchange prevailing at the statement of financial position date.
The income statements are translated at the average rate.
The exchange Impairment of Non-Financial Assets excluding Inventories, differences arising on the translation are taken directly to a separate Investment Properties and Deferred Tax Assets component of equity.
Impairment tests on goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are undertaken at least annually at the financial year end and also if there are Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 61 Financial Assets amendments to pension schemes, are charged or credited to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year in which they arise.
Unless otherwise indicated, the carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
For defined contribution schemes, costs are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement as they accrue.
Overseas subsidiary undertakings provide Loans and Receivables pensions in accordance with local law and practice.
These assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable Share-Based Payments payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise principally through the provision of goods and services to customers e. g. trade Where equity-settled share options are awarded to employees, the fair value receivables, but also incorporate other types of contractual monetary asset.
of the options at the date of grant is normally charged to the consolidated They are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly income statement over the vesting period.
If the vesting conditions are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue and subsequently carried at amortised related to a capital asset then the charge is debited to the cost of the related cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
Non-market vesting conditions are taken into account by adjusting the number of equity instruments expected to vest at each statement of financial Impairment provisions are recognised when there is objective evidence such position date so that, ultimately, the cumulative amount recognised over the as significant financial difficulties on the part of the counterparty or default or vesting period is based on the number of options that eventually vest.
Market significant delay in payment that the Group will be unable to collect all of the vesting conditions are factored into the fair value of the options granted.
As amounts due under the terms receivable, the amount of such a provision long as all other vesting conditions are satisfied, a charge is made irrespective being the difference between the net carrying amount and the present value of whether the market vesting conditions are satisfied.
The cumulative expense of the future expected cash flows associated with the impaired receivable.
is not adjusted for failure to achieve a market vesting condition.
For trade receivables, which are reported net, such provisions are recorded At each statement of financial position date before vesting, the cumulative in a separate allowance account with the loss being recognised within expense is calculated, representing the extent to which the vesting period operating expenses in the income statement.
On confirmation that the trade has expired and managements best estimate of the achievement or receivable will not be collectable, the gross carrying value of the asset is otherwise of non-market conditions and of the number of equity instruments written off against the associated provision.
that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market Financial Liabilities condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
The movement in Unless otherwise indicated, the carrying amounts of the Groups financial cumulative expense since the previous statement of financial position date liabilities are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
Loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of any The Group has share-based long term incentive plans accounted for as set transaction costs directly attributable to the issue of the instrument.
interest bearing liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using Leased Assets the effective interest rate method, which ensures that any interest expense Leases in terms of which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and over the period to repayment is at a constant rate on the balance of the liability rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under carried in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
finance leases are recorded in the statement of financial position as tangible Trade payables and other short-term monetary liabilities are initially recognised assets, initially at fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective lease payments and depreciated over their estimated useful lives as detailed interest method.
in the depreciation policy below.
The interest element of leasing payments Share Capital represents a constant proportion of the capital balance outstanding and is Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.
extent that they do not meet the definition of a financial liability.
The Groups Where substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership are ordinary shares are classified as equity instruments.
not transferred to the Group an operating lease, the total rentals payable under the lease are charged to the consolidated income statement on a Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust straight line basis over the lease term.
The aggregate benefit of lease Stobart Group shares held by the Group are designated as own shares held, incentives is recognised as a reduction of the rental expense over the lease classified in shareholders equity and recognised at cost.
Consideration received term on a straight line basis.
for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference The land and buildings elements of property leases are considered separately between the proceeds from sale and original cost taken to retained earnings.
for the purposes of lease classification.
Treasury Shares Separately Disclosed Items When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the The Group presents separately on the face of the income statement material consideration paid, which includes directly attributable costs, net of any tax items of income and expense, which because of their nature, infrequency or effects, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
occurrence, or the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to Pension Arrangements and other Post-Employment Benefits allow shareholders to better understand the financial performance of the year.
The Group has a number of pension schemes, both of a defined benefit and Underlying operating profit is stated before separately disclosed items and defined contribution nature.
The Groups pension liability, which is assessed share based payments.
each period by actuaries, is based on key assumptions including return on Externally Acquired Intangible Assets excluding Goodwill plan assets, discount rates, mortality rates, inflation, future salary and pension Externally acquired intangible assets are initially recognised at cost and are costs.
These assumptions, individually or collectively, may be different to actual subsequently amortised on a straight line basis over their useful lives.
Other key assumptions for pension obligations are based in part amortisation expense is included as amortisation of acquired intangibles and is on current market conditions.
Additional information is disclosed in Note 23. shown separately in the consolidated income statement below underlying profit.
The liability in respect of defined benefit schemes is the present value of the Intangible assets are recognised on business combinations if they are relevant defined benefit obligation at the Balance Sheet date less the fair value separable from the acquired entity or give rise to other contractual legal rights.
The Trustees commission a full actuarial valuation triennially, The amounts ascribed to such intangibles are arrived at by using appropriate and the present value of the obligation is updated annually by external valuation techniques see section related to significant accounting estimates, professional actuaries using the projected unit method for financial reporting judgments and assumptions below.
The present value of the obligation is determined by the estimated The significant intangibles recognised by the Group and their useful future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which economic lives are as follows: have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related liability.
The current service cost, and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments, Intangible asset Useful life are recognised in operating costs in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Past service costs are included in operating costs where the benefits have Brands Indefinite vested, otherwise they are amortised on a straight line basis over the vesting Customer contracts period.
The expected return on assets of funded defined benefit schemes, and and related relationships Term of contract the interest on pension scheme liabilities comprise the finance element of the pension cost and are included in finance costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, changes in actuarial assumptions and Stobart Group Annual Report 2013 62 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year to 28 February 2013, continued Where there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which a brand is Investment Properties expected to generate cash flows for the Group it will be considered to have Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs.
The carrying amount includes the cost of replacing part of an existing investment property at the time that the cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met Current Taxation and excludes the cost of day to day servicing of an investment property.
Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured Subsequent to initial recognition, investment properties are stated at fair value, at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
which reflects market conditions at the date of the statement of financial position.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair values of investment properties enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Deferred Taxation Investment properties acquired as part of a business combination are Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised where the carrying amount recognised intitially at fair value and exclude transaction costs.
of an asset or liability in the statement of financial position differs to its tax Investment properties are derecognised when either they have been base, except for differences arising on: disposed of or when the investment property is permanently withdrawn from The initial recognition of goodwill.
use and no future economic benefit is expected from its disposal.
Any gains or losses on the retirement or disposal of an investment property areThe initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a recognised in the income statement in the period of retirement or disposal.
business combination and at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting or taxable profit.
Rental income arising from operating leases on investment properties is spread on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Where an incentiveInvestments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities where the Group such as a rent free period is given to a tenant, the carrying value of the is able to control the timing of the reversal of the difference and it is investment property excludes any amount reported as a separate asset as a probable that the difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
result of recognising rental income on this basis.
Recognition of deferred tax assets is restricted to those instances where it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the difference can be utilised.
Self Constructed Assets The amount of the asset or liability is determined using tax rates that have The cost of a self-constructed asset is determined using the same principles been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position as for an acquired asset.
Costs include any costs directly attributable to date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax liabilities assets are bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable settled recovered.
of operating in the manner intended by management.
Costs include Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the Group has a legally employee benefits, site preparation, delivery and handling, installation and enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax assembly, testing and professional fees.
For assets made for sale or similar assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority on either: to those made for sale then the cost is the same as the cost of constructing an asset for sale including fixed and variable overheads which are consideredThe same taxable Group company.
Internal net profits are eliminated in arriving at such costs.
Different Group entities which intend either to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities Inventories simultaneously, in each future period in which significant amounts of Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
deferred tax assets or liabilities are expected to be settled or recovered.
The cost of inventories is based on the first-in first-out principle, and includes Government Grants expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs, and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location and Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that condition.
In the case of manufactured inventories and work in progress, cost the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with.
includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal Where the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over operating capacity.
the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, it is Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of credited to deferred income and released to the income statement to match business, less the estimated costs of completion and estimated costs the depreciation on the related asset.
Grants of a revenue nature are credited necessary to make the sale.
to income so as to match them with the expenditure to which they relate.
Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Disposal Groups Dividends Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale when: Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
In the case of interimThey are available for immediate sale.
dividends to equity shareholders, this is when paid.
In the case of final dividends, Management is committed to a plan to sell.
this is when approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
It is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the Property, Plant and Equipment plan will be withdrawn.
Freehold land and buildings and plant and equipment are stated at cost lessAn active programme to locate a buyer has been initiated.
accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment in value.
The asset or disposal group is being marketed at a reasonable price in Depreciation is provided on items of property, plant and equipment, other relation to its fair value.
than land and assets under construction, to write off to their residual valueA sale is expected to complete within 12 months from the date of the carrying value of items over their expected useful lives.
Useful lives and classification or an extended period if the delay is caused by residual values are reconsidered on an annual basis.
Depreciation is applied circumstances beyond the entitys control but the Group remains at the following rates: committed to the plan to sell the asset.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are Buildings - 2% per annum straight line measured at the lower of: Modular buildings - 7% per annum straight line Their carrying amount immediately prior to being classified as held for Long life plant and machinery - 5% per annum reducing balance sale in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
Other plant and machinery - 10-14% per annum straight line Fair value less costs to sell.
Vehicles and trailers - 14-33% per annum straight line Following their classification as held for sale, non-current assets including Fixtures, fittings and equipment - 20% per annum straight line those in a disposal group are not depreciated.
The results of operations disposed of during the year are included in the An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or consolidated income statement up to the date of disposal.
when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any Associates gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference The Groups investments in its associates are accounted for using the equity between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is method of accounting unless the investment is classified as held for sale.
included in profit or loss in the year the asset is derecognised.
An associate is an entity in which the Group has significant influence and Borrowing costs attributable to qualifying assets are capitalised.
which is neither a subsidiary nor a joint venture.
