SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 39 Corporate Governance Statement The non-executive directors meet with the Chairman separately from time to time, without the executive directors present.
During the year of reporting, the non-executive directors have each spoken to the Senior Independent Director to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
All members of the board of directors, and the sub-committees, have sufficient resources and a budget set aside to allow access to independent advice as required.
For non-executive directors, a relevant clause is included in their letters of appointment setting out their required time commitment.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
The appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for the board.
Operational matters, trading performance and the development of proposals for the board, where required under the schedule of matters reserved for the board, are controlled by an executive committee that consists of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Brand and Design Director, the Director of e-commerce, the Director of Europe, Director of HR, Director of IT and the recently appointed Managing Director, International and Wholesale.
The board has appointed committees to carry out certain duties, and these are detailed below.
Each of these committees is chaired by a separate chairman and has written terms of reference, available on the website, www.
Minutes are prepared for each of these meetings by the Company Secretary and presented at the following respective meetings for approval.
All committees have sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Committee membership: Audit committee: Minnow Powell Chairman Chairman from 5 February 2013, member of the committee from 1 December 2012 Euan Sutherland from 1 December 2012 Steven Glew Chairman and member until 4 February 2013 Indira Thambiah until 11 February 2013 Ken McCall Remuneration committee: Keith Edelman Chairman Minnow Powell from 1 December 2012 Euan Sutherland from 1 December 2012 Steven Glew until 4 February 2013 Indira Thambiah until 11 February 2013 Nomination committee: Peter Bamford Chairman Keith Edelman Julian Dunkerton Performance evaluation The annual board evaluation to assess the performance of the board, its non-executive directors and committees was carried out in May 2013, to assess performance for the financial period ending 28 April 2013.
This year this took the form of an externally facilitated review using the services of an external consultant, Mark Goodridge of OECam LLP, in accordance with the Code.
This review covered a range of issues around board and committee processes, board roles and responsibilities.
In addition, a process of continued assessment has been undertaken during the financial period with the Chairman conducting meetings with the directors.
The performance of the executive directors during the period of reporting was monitored by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman.
22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
