42 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Corporate Governance Statement Communication with shareholders The company and the Group recognise the importance of communicating with shareholders.
Communication with institutional shareholders is undertaken as part of SuperGroups investor relations programme, in which non-executive directors are encouraged to participate.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have continued to make presentations such as after the preliminary and interim results and communicate regularly on developments.
The non-executive directors attend some of these meetings to hear feedback from shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director have arranged meetings with institutional shareholders to gain a balanced understanding of their views and concerns and discuss strategy development and corporate governance.
In addition, in view of the market updates made during the previous financial period, there has been a need for a proactive approach to communicating with shareholders.
The Chairman has led this and ensured that the views of shareholders are communicated to the board as a whole.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are in regular communication with the significant private shareholders this includes two of the original executive directors, who sit on the board.
The companys AGM will be held on 10 September 2013, at which time shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions.
The chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees, together with all other members of the board of directors, will be present to answer shareholder questions.
Shareholders will have the opportunity to meet non-executive directors at additional times in the year.
The full Annual Report and Financial Statements are made available to all shareholders and potential investors.
Other information about the company and Group is made available on the website at www.
Financial statements The board is ultimately responsible for approving the Annual Report and Financial Statements and half year report.
Internal control The board is ultimately responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness annually.
Following the market update on 20 April 2012, a full and comprehensive review of the adequacy of the existing internal controls was undertaken, led by the Chief Operating Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
As a result of this exercise a number of initiatives were identified to ensure that the internal systems were improved and made more robust.
This has resulted in the need for significant investment in additional resource, to include people and information systems.
In accordance with the revised guidance for directors on internal control the Revised Turnbull Guidance, the board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group.
This process was put in place prior to the IPO in March 2010 and has continued to be developed during the year.
This process was in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
These systems are there to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can provide only reasonable and not complete assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The report was approved by the board of directors on 10 July 2013 and signed on its order: Wendy Edwards Company Secretary 10 July 2013 Registered Office: Unit 60 The Runnings Cheltenham Gloucestershire GL51 9NW 22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8
