70 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 1 Principal accounting policies a Basis of preparation The financial statements of SuperGroup Plc the Company and SuperGroup Plc and its subsidiary undertakings in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Belgium, France, Germany, Netherlands and Turkey as detailed in note 20 the Group have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention as modified by fair values, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The current period 2013 is for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2013 2012: 52 weeks ended 29 April 2012 2012.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies note 2.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand except where indicated.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidation of the subsidiaries acquired in advance of the Initial Public Offering in March 2010 C-Retail Limited, DKH Retail Limited, SuperGroup Concessions Limited, SuperGroup International Limited, SuperGroup Internet Limited and SuperGroup Retail Ireland Limited into the financial statements of SuperGroup Plc has been prepared under the principles of predecessor accounting, whereby an acquirer is not required to be identified, and all entities are included at their pre-combination carrying amounts.
This accounting treatment leads to differences on consolidation between consideration and fair value of the underlying net assets and this difference is included within equity as a merger reserve.
All subsequent business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting note 1c.
Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group has power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the Group statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed when necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
c Business combinations The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations of entities not under common control.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment.
Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
22225-04 31 July 2013 9:45 AM Proof 9 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 71 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued d Foreign currencies The consolidated financial information is presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Resulting exchange gains and losses are recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Upon consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items of foreign operations are translated at the actual rate or average rate if not materially different.
Differences on translation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
e Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for goods supplied, stated net of discounts, returns and value added taxes.
The Group recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity and when specific criteria have been met for each of the Groups activities, as described below.
The Group bases its estimate of returns on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement.
Standalone store revenue Standalone store revenue from the provision of sale of goods is recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer.
Standalone store sales are settled in cash or by credit or payment card.
It is the Groups policy to sell its products to the customer with a right to exchange within 28 days.
Concession revenue Concession revenues from the provision of sale of goods are recognised gross at the point of sale of a product to the customer.
Concession revenues are settled in cash, by the concession grantors net of commissions or other fees payable.
It is the concessions policy to sell its products with a right to exchange within 28 days and a cash refund within 14 days.
Provisions are made for concession returns based on the expected level of returns, which in turn is based upon the historical rate of returns.
Internet revenue Revenue from the provision of the sale of goods on the internet is recognised at the point that the risks and rewards of the inventory have passed to the customer, which is the point of delivery.
Transactions are settled by credit card, payment card or PayPal.
Provisions are made for internet credit notes based on the expected level of returns, which in turn is based upon the historical rate of returns.
Wholesale revenue Wholesale revenues from the sale of goods are recognised at the point that the risks and rewards of the inventory have passed to the customer, which depends on the specific terms and conditions of sales transactions and which are typically upon either dispatch or delivery.
Revenues are settled in cash, net of discounts.
Provisions are made for Wholesale credit notes based on the expected level of returns, which in turn is based upon the historical rate of returns.
f Other income Other income primarily relates to proceeds from legal claims and royalty income.
Royalty income is recognised gross on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the Wholesale royalty agreements.
22225-04 31 July 2013 9:45 AM Proof 9 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 72 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued g Finance income Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested.
Finance income is recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method.
h Finance expenses Finance expenses comprise interest payable on interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Finance expenses are recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method.
i Leasing and similar commitments Leases are accounted for as operating leases as the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor and the rental charges are charged to the Group statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Lease incentives are received in the form of cash contributions and rent-free periods and are considered financing activities for the purposes of the cash flow statement, as they are the same as financing from landlords to fund store fit-outs.
Cash contributions Cash contributions from landlords for store fit-outs are initially recognised as a deferred income liability in the balance sheet at the point the recognition criteria in the lease are met, and credited to selling, general and administrative expenses in the Group statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease commencing from opening date.
Cash contributions are not discounted.
Rent-free periods A deferred income liability is built up on the balance sheet during the rent-free period, which is then credited to the Group statement of comprehensive income over the life of the lease.
The effect is to recognise a reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses on a straight-line basis over the longer of the term of the lease, or from property access date to the end of the lease.
Rent-free periods are not discounted.
Lease premiums Lease premiums paid to landlords are initially recognised as a prepayment, and lease premiums paid to previous tenants are initially recognised as an intangible asset, in the balance sheet, at the point the recognition criteria in the lease are met, and debited to selling, general and administrative expenses in the Group statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease commencing from opening date.
j Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price and the costs attributable to bringing the asset into its working condition but excludes interest.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds received with the carrying amount and are recognised within other gains and losses net in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write down the cost of the assets, less their estimated residual values, over their remaining useful economic lives as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years on a straight-line basis Leasehold improvements 5 7 years on a straight-line basis Furniture, fixtures and fittings 5 7 years on a straight-line basis Computer equipment 3 5 years on a straight-line basis Land is not depreciated.
Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually and adjusted if appropriate.
22225-04 31 July 2013 9:45 AM Proof 9 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 73 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued k Impairment The carrying values of non-financial assets are tested annually to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows which are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs is estimated.
The recoverable amount of a non-financial asset is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell, and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or cash-generating unit.
An impairment loss is recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income whenever the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss in a subsidiary consolidated under predecessor accounting note 1b is recognised as a movement in the merger reserve and retained earnings.
l Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are recognised initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is recognised outside goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its fair value can be measured reliably.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible assets with a finite life have no residual value and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives as follows: Trademarks 10 years Website and software 5 years Lease premiums Over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis Distribution agreements 6 years Trademark costs comprise the external cost of registration and associated legal costs.
Website and software costs consist primarily of externally incurred development costs.
Lease premiums comprise the amount paid to the previous tenant to acquire the lease.
Distribution agreements comprise the fair value, at date of acquisition, of distribution agreements acquired as part of a business combination.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
m Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at their fair value and remeasured at fair value at each period end.
Derivative financial instruments are categorised as held for trading.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
The Group has not applied hedge accounting.
Foreign forward exchange derivative gains and losses are recognised in other gains and losses net.
n Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost comprises costs associated with the purchase and bringing of inventories to the distribution centres and is based on the weighted average principle.
Provisions are made for obsolescence, mark-downs and shrinkage.
o Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less impairment losses.
A provision for the impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due, according to the original terms.
Significant financial difficulties of the customer, probability that the customer will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable may be impaired.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
22225-04 31 July 2013 9:45 AM Proof 9 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 74 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued p Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity date of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are offset against cash when a right of offset exists and the Group intends to use this right of offset.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits, less overdrafts, which are repayable on demand.
q Borrowings Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value net of transaction costs, including facility fees incurred, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Where a loan is obtained at interest rates different from market rates, the loan is remeasured at origination to its fair value, which is calculated as future interest payments and principal repayments discounted at market interest rates for similar loans.
Subsequently, the carrying amount of the borrowings is adjusted for amortisation of the origination gain or loss, and the amortisation is recorded as finance income cost using the effective interest yield method on the asset liability.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
r Provisions and contingent liabilities A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is more likely than not that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Provisions are discounted if the impact on the provision is deemed to be material.
s Employee benefit obligations The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme for the benefit of its employees.
The Group pays contributions into an independently administered fund via a salary sacrifice arrangement.
The costs to the Group of providing these benefits are recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income and comprise the amount of contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the year.
Payroll expense and related contributions Wages, salaries, payroll tax, paid annual leave and sick leave, bonuses, and non-monetary benefits are accrued in the year in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
t Share based payments The Group operates an equity settled share based compensation plan.
The fair value of the shares under such plans is recognised as an expense in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Fair value is determined using the Black Scholes Option Pricing Model.
The amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of share incentives excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
Non-market vesting conditions are considered as part of the assumptions about the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of share incentives that are expected to vest.
The impact of the revision on original estimates, if any, is recognised in the Group statement of comprehensive income, with a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.
u Trade and other payables Trade and other payables, excluding lease incentives see note 1i, are non-interest bearing and are initially recognised at their fair value which approximates book value.
Trade and other payables are derecognised when the contractual obligations to the cash flows from the liability expire or are transferred.
22225-04 31 July 2013 9:45 AM Proof 9 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 75 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued v Taxation The policy for current and deferred income tax, when relevant, is as follows: tax on the profit or loss for the period will comprise current and deferred income tax: current income tax expense is calculated using the tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years: deferred income tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes: the amount of deferred income tax provided is based on the expected realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date: a deferred income tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised: and deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current income tax assets against current income tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
w Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability and deducted from equity at the balance sheet date only if they have been approved before or on the balance sheet date.
Dividends are disclosed when they have been proposed before the balance sheet date or proposed or declared after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are approved for issue by the directors.
x Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity, as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
y Retained earnings The retained earnings reflect the accumulated profits and losses of the Group.
z Merger reserve The merger reserve arose on the Group restructuring in March 2010 and represents the differences on consolidation arising on the adoption of predecessor accounting.
This comprises the difference between consideration paid and the book value of net assets acquired in the transaction less any impairment.
aa Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating DecisionMaker.
The Chief Operating Decision-Maker, which is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the executive board.
ab Cost of sales Cost of sales comprises movements between opening and closing inventories, purchases, carriage in, commissions payable, and other related expenses.
22225-04 31 July 2013 9:45 AM Proof 9 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
