76 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 1 Principal accounting policies continued ac Exceptional items Items that are material in size, unusual or infrequent in nature, are disclosed separately as exceptional items in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
The separate reporting of exceptional items, which are presented as exceptional within the relevant category in the Group statement of comprehensive income, helps to provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
The principal items which may be included as exceptional items are: significant profit loss on the disposal of non-current assets: impairment of property, plant and equipment: impairment of intangible assets: impact on deferred income tax for changes in tax rates: and the costs and benefits associated with significant corporate, financial or operational restructuring, including acquisitions.
2 Critical accounting estimates and judgements in applying accounting policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
a Recoverability of deferred income tax assets The Group has recognised a significant deferred income tax asset in its financial statements which requires judgement for determining the extent of its recoverability at each balance sheet date.
The Group assesses recoverability with reference to board approved forecasts of future taxable profits.
These forecasts require the use of assumptions and estimates.
The Groups subsidiaries will need to make taxable profits of at least 141.9m over the next 17 years 2012: 156.3m over 18 years to obtain the full tax deduction against the amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets in those subsidiaries.
b Impairment of goodwill The Group has tested goodwill for impairment which requires judgement when determining the recoverable amount.
Further details of the impairment testing and the key assumptions are included in more detail in note 19. c Provisions The Group has recognised provisions for impairment of inventories, impairment of trade receivables, post year end credit notes and returns in respect of revenue, employee bonuses, dilapidations, onerous leases and income tax in its financial statements which requires management to make judgements.
The judgements, estimates and associated assumptions necessary to calculate these provisions are based on historical experience and other reasonable factors.
