70 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 1 Principal accounting policies a Basis of preparation The financial statements of SuperGroup Plc the Company and SuperGroup Plc and its subsidiary undertakings in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Belgium, France, Germany, Netherlands and Turkey as detailed in note 20 the Group have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention as modified by fair values, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The current period 2013 is for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2013 2012: 52 weeks ended 29 April 2012 2012.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies note 2.
The Group financial statements are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest hundred thousand except where indicated.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidation of the subsidiaries acquired in advance of the Initial Public Offering in March 2010 C-Retail Limited, DKH Retail Limited, SuperGroup Concessions Limited, SuperGroup International Limited, SuperGroup Internet Limited and SuperGroup Retail Ireland Limited into the financial statements of SuperGroup Plc has been prepared under the principles of predecessor accounting, whereby an acquirer is not required to be identified, and all entities are included at their pre-combination carrying amounts.
This accounting treatment leads to differences on consolidation between consideration and fair value of the underlying net assets and this difference is included within equity as a merger reserve.
All subsequent business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting note 1c.
Subsidiaries are those entities in which the Group has power to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are presently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the Group controls another entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the Group statement of comprehensive income from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed when necessary to ensure consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
Intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on consolidation.
c Business combinations The Group uses the acquisition method of accounting to account for business combinations of entities not under common control.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less impairment.
Cost is adjusted to reflect changes in consideration arising from contingent consideration amendments.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
