SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 77 Notes to the Group and Company Financial Statements 3 New accounting pronouncements There are no IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning 30 April 2012 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The following new standards, new interpretations and amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued but are not effective for the financial year beginning 30 April 2012: IAS 1 amendments, Financial statement presentation regarding other comprehensive income.
The main change resulting from these amendments is a requirement for entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income OCI on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently reclassification adjustments.
The amendments do not address which items are presented in OCI.
The amendment is effective for the accounting period beginning 29 April 2013 and is not currently relevant to the Group.
IAS 19 amendments, Employee benefits, amended in June 2011.
The impact will be as follows: to eliminate the corridor approach and recognise all actuarial gains and losses in OCI as they occur: to immediately recognise all past service costs: and to replace interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability asset.
The amendment is effective for the accounting period beginning 29 April 2013 and is not applicable for the Group as it does not have any defined benefit pension schemes.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in November 2009 and October 2010.
It replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires financial assets to be classified into two measurement categories: those measured as at fair value and those measured at amortised cost.
The determination is made at initial recognition.
The classification depends on the entitys business model for managing its financial instruments and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entitys own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensive income rather than the income statement, unless this creates an accounting mismatch.
The Group is yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact and intends to adopt IFRS 9 no later than the accounting period beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
The Group will also consider the impact of the remaining phases of IFRS 9 when completed by the board.
IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements, builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining factor in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated financial statements of the parent Company.
The standard provides additional guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult to assess.
The Group has assessed IFRS 10s full impact, which has not identified any significant changes, and has adopted IFRS 10 for the accounting period beginning 29 April 2013.
IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, is a more realistic reflection of joint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement rather than its legal form.
There are two types of joint arrangement: joint operations and joint ventures.
Joint operations arise where a joint operator has rights to the assets and obligations relating to the arrangement and therefore accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Joint ventures arise where the joint venturer has rights to the net assets of the arrangement and therefore equity accounts for its interest.
Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed.
The Group has assessed IFRS 11s full impact, which has not identified any significant changes, and has adopted IFRS 11 for the accounting period beginning 29 April 2013.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of interest in other entities, includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
The Group has assessed IFRS 12s full impact, which has not identified any significant changes, and has adopted IFRS 12 for the accounting period beginning 29 April 2013.
IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements, which are largely aligned between IFRSs, do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on how it should be applied where its use is already required or permitted by other standards within IFRSs.
The Group has assessed IFRS 13s full impact, which has not identified any significant changes, and has adopted IFRS 13 for the accounting period beginning 29 April 2013.
22225-04 31 July 2013 9:45 AM Proof 9 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
