SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 41 Corporate Governance Statement Nomination committee Peter Bamford is chairman of the nomination committee and the other committee members are Keith Edelman and Julian Dunkerton.
The board is satisfied that the chairman was independent on appointment and Keith Edelman is an independent non-executive director.
The board is aware that currently the majority of the committee are not independent.
The board will continue to monitor this situation.
The nomination committee is responsible for nominating candidates for appointment to the board, having assessed the skills and experience required by the Group, and role descriptions are drawn up accordingly.
The Chairman and all non-executive directors have declared their other significant commitments, including all other board positions, to the board prior to being appointed.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are aware of their ongoing obligation to disclose any changes to their other commitments as they arise, and have adhered to this during the financial period.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, a broad indication of the time involved with other significant commitments is disclosed by the non-executive directors.
Their expected time commitment to SuperGroup is included in the terms and conditions of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of SuperGroup Plc.
During the year of reporting, the nomination committee held four meetings.
Following a review of the skills and composition of the board of directors at the start of the reporting period it was decided to add additional expertise in the areas of senior operational capability and financial control.
Job specifications for two additional non-executive directors were developed and the nomination committee appointed an external search company to assist with the recruitment of suitable candidates for these roles.
The search for these two positions was based on merit and a set of objective criteria, resulting in the appointments of Minnow Powell and Euan Sutherland to the board on 1 December 2012 as non-executive directors.
This coincided with the decision by Steven Glew and Indira Thambiah not to serve for a further three year term, on the expiry of their initial three year terms in February 2013.
The principal functions of the nomination committee include the following: To review the structure, size and composition of the board and recommend changes when appropriate: To consider and recommend succession planning for executive and non-executive directors: To identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the board to fill board vacancies or new positions as and when they arise: and To evaluate the skills, experience and knowledge of board members.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee are available on our website at www.
During the financial year, Minnow Powell and Euan Sutherland were appointed to the board and were given a full induction.
None of the existing executive directors holds non-executive directorships.
Diversity We support the principle of boardroom diversity, to include gender.
However, all board appointments are made on merit against objective criteria rather than aiming to achieve an externally prescribed target.
At the start of the year 20% of the board was composed of women, but this is now at 11%, with the resignation of Indira Thambiah in February.
A number of women have been appointed to senior management positions during the year, including Head of UK and Ireland Retail, Director of HR, Design Studio Manager and Head of Womens Design.
The executive committee is currently composed of 22% of women, having started the year at 16%.
Information and professional development Non-executive directors meet regularly with members of the executive committee and members of the senior management team to gain first-hand experience of the business.
Senior managers regularly attend board meetings to make presentations to the directors.
This year, these presentations have included such topics as: sourcing, logistics, IT strategy, international franchise roll-out and product development.
In addition, the non-executive directors make site visits to ensure that they are kept up to date with developments across the Group.
To date, all directors have received instruction on their responsibilities as a director from the Groups legal advisors and companys stockbrokers.
22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
