26 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Operating Responsibly SuperGroup is committed to operating in a responsible Ethical Trading Initiative provides the Group with guidance manner and strives to become a more sustainable business.
and support to ensure that the ethical trading programme For the Group this means working with suppliers, engaging remains on track.
communities, attracting and retaining the best staff and reducing environmental impact to broaden business In 2013 the Group: benefits to all stakeholders.
Made improvements in supporting supplier factories Governance and structure through the assessment and monitoring programme which led to a decrease in audit issues in key sourcing Overall accountability for Group corporate responsibility, countries: including matters relating to ethical trading in the supply Supported the delivery of a multi-supplier capability chain, sits with the Chief Operating Officer COO.
improvement workshop in China which provided factories with assistance and guidance on improving The Group has a sustainability team responsible for conditions for workers: and delivering all work streams associated with the Groups environmental and ethical trading policies.
This team Made further in-country visits to work with suppliers on collaborates with key areas of the business to identify country specific, industry-wide issues.
opportunities to act in a more sustainable manner.
The team reports directly to the COO on issues pertaining to Creating environmental value corporate responsibility.
Other Group functions, including SuperGroup recognises that it has a global responsibility human resources and health and safety, ensure the wellto minimise the impact of the business on the natural being of the Groups employees.
This objective is set out in our Environmental Policy Statement signed and endorsed by the Chief Factory conditions Executive Officer.
SuperGroup has improved upon its ethical trading activities through financial year 2013, building on lessons learnt in In order to achieve these objectives, the sustainability previous years, in order to promote safe and fair working team cross-collaborates with many departments and conditions within the supply chain.
external stakeholders to identify opportunities to reduce the environmental impact of the company.
In doing so the The Group has expanded its monitoring and assessment Group continues to reduce the use and cost of resources capabilities through auditing and other mechanisms whilst such as energy.
also helping suppliers improve working conditions through capability improvement programmes, ethical trading Progress is tracked using a number of databases that projects and tailored support.
These are designed to monitor key variables.
The Group annually measures its support continuous improvement against the SuperGroup carbon footprint and uses the information to put in place Ethical Trading Code of Practice.
programmes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
In 2013 a programme was initiated to roll out automated meter SuperGroup prides itself on transparency and collaboration reading devices to all stores to provide better electricity and continues to make regular in-country visits to key data for analysing, troubleshooting and billing.
sourcing countries to maintain the support and buy-in from the supply chain.
Participation as a full member of the 22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 27 Operating Responsibly The Group continues to increase its use of renewable Employees electricity.
In the UK 87% of stores and offices are supplied Our people are ambassadors of our brand responsible for with renewable energy purchased from micro-generators delivering our business plans, designing and sourcing our across the UK, whilst in Europe renewable energy is being extraordinary range of products, and making the Superdry purchased from similar tariffs in different countries.
We employ over 2,800 people, including part-time colleagues, across the UK and In 2013 the Group: Europe and this is set to grow over the coming year.
Were working hard to equip our people with the skills to drive Decreased its UK carbon footprint relative to business our business forward and offer them rewarding careers.
growth: Sharing in our success is something we value and for a Rolled out a number of energy reduction measures second year we offered employees the opportunity to join across the store portfolio focusing primarily on reducing our Sharesave scheme.
lighting loads: and Diverted 13.2 tonnes of textile waste from landfill and The Group encourages our employees to participate fully arranged for it to be recycled.
Improved head office and in community projects and as part of this in May 2012 ten UK warehouse recycling rates to 75% of total waste, of them took part in one of the CARE International events from 50% in 2012. raising 6,500 to help provide relief against poverty.
SuperGroup continues to be an attractive place to work Recognising communities and as a result receives a high volume of applications for During the year we have provided financial support to the jobs in Superdry stores.
To manage this and improve the following: candidate experience the Group has invested in technology to support the initial stages of recruitment online.
During Cheltenham Design Festival a donation of 25,000 the year more than 35,000 applications were received and was made towards this Festival that promotes design the Group recruited in excess of 800 Christmas temps excellence through their annual event, and the Saturday directly through the website to support the 2012 peak Design Academy free to local students introducing trading period.
them to all areas of design.
CARE International the Group contributed 6,500 to Looking ahead CARE International, an aid agency that works globally With the Governments pension auto-enrolment changes to provide relief against poverty and after natural effective from September 2013 the Group is preparing disasters.
to extend its existing pension plan to all employees.
In Neets project 25,000 was donated to this local particular the aim is to help many of the young people charity that helps young people develop their skills so in our business understand the importance and value of they are better equipped to find employment.
As part of the Welsh carrier bag regulation the Group has raised more than 4,000 for its chosen charity The Group will be investing in a new payroll and HR system the Woodland Trust.
The trust aims to plant six million which will enable employees to book time off online and native trees across the UK in 2013. receive electronic payslips.
It will also provide insight into the Groups rapidly growing workforce both within and During the year the Group made one-off in-kind outside of the UK.
donations to various local charities and community groups.
SuperGroup recognises that as a people business it needs to continue to develop its HR function to support the future Health and safety plans of the business.
Next year will see the Group focus A key objective of the Group is to provide a working on building leadership capability, training and development environment where the health, safety and well-being of to further enhance employees skills.
In addition, career employees is continuously maintained and improved.
The frameworks will be developed to ensure a pipeline of talent Group also seeks to ensure the safety of its customers and ready to meet the next phase of the Groups growth.
other business partners and to provide assurance to the board that there is a formal health and safety audit and assessment process, conducted by trained staff, that ensures all the premises are assessed on a regular and frequent basis.
22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction 28 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 29 Governance Board of Directors 30 - 31 Directors Report 32 - 35 Corporate Governance Statement 38 - 42 Audit Committee Report 43 - 45 Directors Remuneration Report 48 - 57 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 59 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of SuperGroup Plc 60 - 61 22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Performance Introduction
