48 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors Remuneration Report INTRODUCTORY LETTER Dear shareholder, I am pleased to present the remuneration committees report on directors remuneration for 2013.
The Government has tabled proposals to reform the way directors remuneration is voted upon and reported.
The new legislative requirements will not come into effect until October 2013 but, although not mandatory for this report, the committee has decided to comply with a number of the new requirements early in the interests of best practice.
Therefore, this report has been split into two sections, a remuneration policy report which sets out the policy on the remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors and an implementation report which discloses how the current remuneration policy has been implemented in the year ended 28 April 2013.
We will be seeking your support for both parts of the report by way of a single advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
As reported last year, a guaranteed bonus was agreed for the then newly appointed Chief Operating Officer.
The company recognises that offering a guaranteed bonus falls outside best corporate practice.
However, when this was agreed by the board the company had recently announced a profit warning and recognised the need to strengthen the management team.
The board had decided to appoint a COO to complement the skills of Julian Dunkerton, the Chief Executive Officer.
At the final stages of the recruitment process Susanne Given became the preferred candidate but at this juncture had been offered a more lucrative compensation package by a European retailer.
In order to attract Susanne at what was considered by the board a critical period of time the board agreed that it would not match this competing offer but would guarantee the first years annual bonus.
On this basis the board was able to recruit Susanne Given and all other terms were compliant with the companys remuneration policy.
The board has from the time of flotation of the company indicated that it would review the application of the remuneration policy as it applied to what has been referred to as the founder directors, Julian Dunkerton, the Chief Executive Officer and James Holder, the Brand and Design Director.
It has now decided that in order to better align the executive directors that Julian and James should both be included in the annual bonus schemes but given their shareholdings it is not planned this year to include them in the Performance Share Plan.
This will be kept under review on an annual basis.
Our philosophy for remuneration remains to attract and retain leaders who are focused and encouraged to deliver business transformation and develop an increasingly international business.
The committee takes the views of our shareholders very seriously and considers their feedback and guidance from shareholder representative bodies when setting executive remuneration policy.
The 2012 Directors Remuneration Report received a significant majority vote in favour at the 2012 AGM.
We hope to receive your continued support at the forthcoming AGM.
Keith Edelman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 22225.04 25 July 2013 7:38 PM Proof 8
