Financial Statements Financial Statements 20 Derivative financial instruments continued Fair value hedges The Group employs interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate risks associated with its borrowings.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts applied in fair value hedging relationships as of 31 March 2013 were 364 million 2012 353 million.
Net investment hedges The Group employs currency swap contracts to hedge the currency risk associated with its net investments in subsidiaries located primarily in the USA and Europe.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts applied in net investment hedging relationships as of 31 March 2013 were 158 million 31 March 2012 152 million.
Within net investment hedging losses, a fair value loss of 5 million 2012 4 million gain on translation of the currency swap contracts to pounds sterling at the statement of financial position date was recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity Note 25.
In addition, at 31 March 2013, of the Groups borrowings, a total of 495 million 2012 369 million is designated as hedges of the net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
Debt-related derivatives held for trading The notional amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts not designated within hedge relationships as at 31 March 2013 were nil million 2012 321 million.
Some of the Groups interest rate swap contracts hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate risk, but do not qualify for hedge accounting.
The notional amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts not designated within hedge relationships as of 31 March 2013 were 231 million 2012 219 million.
Trading contracts Commodity pricing contracts held for trading relate to the Groups commodity trading activities which are undertaken for the purposes of supporting underlying operations.
21 Financial risk factors Management of financial risk The key financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk, and market risks, which include interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and certain commodity price risks.
The Board of Tate & Lyle PLC regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments to manage these risks and sets overall risk limits.
The derivative financial instruments approved by the Board to manage financial risks include swaps, both interest rate and currency, swaptions, caps, forward rate agreements, foreign exchange and commodity forward contracts and options, and commodity futures.
The Chief Financial Officer retains the overall responsibility for management of financial risk for the Group.
Most of the Groups financing, interest rate and foreign exchange risk are managed through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, whose operations are controlled by its board.
The treasury company is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and has other board members who are independent of the treasury function.
Group interest rate and currency exposures are concentrated either in the treasury company or in appropriate holding companies through market-related transactions with Group subsidiaries.
Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC arranges funding and manages interest rate, foreign exchange and bank counterparty risks within limits approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Commodity price risks are managed through divisional commodity trading functions in the USA and Europe.
These functions are controlled by divisional management who are responsible for ratifying general strategy and overseeing performance on a monthly basis.
Commodity price contracts are categorised as being held either for trading or for hedging price exposures.
Commodity contracts held for trading within the Group are limited, confined only to tightly controlled areas within corn pricing.
Market risks Foreign exchange management Tate & Lyle operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from commercial transactions transaction exposure, and from recognised assets, liabilities and investments in overseas operations translation exposure.
Transaction exposure The Groups policy requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional currency exposures against their functional currency once the transaction is committed or highly probable, mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The amounts recognised in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions only when the forecast transactions affect the income statement.
Translation exposure The Group manages the foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations, particularly in the USA and Europe, by maintaining a percentage of net debt in US dollars and euro to mitigate the effect of these risks.
This is achieved by borrowing principally in US dollars and euro, which provide a partial match for the Groups major foreign currency assets.
The Group also manages its foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations through the use of currency swap contracts.
The amount deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges is offset against the foreign currency translation effect of the net investment in overseas operations, and is released to the income statement upon disposal of those investments.
A weakening of the US dollar and euro against sterling would result in exchange gains on net debt denominated in these currencies which would be offset against the losses on the underlying foreign currency assets.
At the year end, net debt amounting to 479 million 2012 476 million was held in the following currencies: net borrowings of US dollars 108% 2012 113%, euro 3% 2012 nil%, net deposits of pounds sterling 10% 2012 8% and other currencies 1% 2012 5%.
The Groups interest cost through the income statement is impacted by changes in the relevant exchange rates.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 95 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21 Financial risk factors continued The following table illustrates only the Groups sensitivity to the fluctuation of the major currencies on its financial assets and liabilities, as defined and set out in Note 19: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Sterling US dollar 10% change 48 1 54 Sterling euro 10% change 6 6 Interest rate management The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally from changes in US dollar, sterling and euro interest rates.
This risk is managed by fixing or capping portions of debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve a target level of fixed floating rate net debt, which aims to optimise net finance expense and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
The Groups policy is that between 30% and 75% of Group net debt excluding the Groups share of joint venture net debt is fixed or capped excluding out-of-the-money caps for more than one year and that no interest rates are fixed for more than 12 years.
At 31 March 2013, the longest term of any fixed rate debt held by the Group was until November 2019 2012 November 2019.
The proportion of net debt at 31 March 2013 excluding the Groups share of joint-venture net debt that was fixed or capped for more than one year was 64% 2012 56%.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
The impact is calculated with reference to the gross debt and cash held as at 31 March 2013 assuming that other variables remain unchanged.
As at 31 March 2013 if interest rates increase by 100 basis points, the Groups profit before tax will decrease by 1 million 2012 no impact.
If interest rates decrease by 100 basis points, or less where applicable, Group profit before tax will increase by 1 million 2012 1 million increase.
Price risk management Tate & Lyle participates mainly in four markets: food and beverage: industrial ingredients: pharmaceutical and personal care: and animal feed.
Food and beverage and industrial ingredients are the most significant.
All ingredients are produced from renewable crops, predominantly corn maize.
Tate & Lyle is exposed to movements in the future prices of commodities in those domestic and international markets where the Group buys and sells corn and energy for production.
Commodity futures, forwards and options are used where available to hedge inventories and the costs of raw materials for unpriced and prospective contracts not covered by forward product sales.
In most cases, these hedging contracts mature within one year and are either traded on recognised exchanges or over the counter.
The table below illustrates the sensitivity of the Groups commodity pricing contracts as at 31 March to the price movement of commodities: 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 Income Income statement Equity statement Equity m m m m Corn 50% change 3 3 The majority of the Groups commodity pricing contracts are held for trading and changes in mark-to-market values of these contracts are taken directly into the income statement.
Amounts deferred in equity from commodity pricing contracts designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement and offset against the movement in underlying transactions when they occur.
Credit risk management Counterparty credit risk arises from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures inherent within the Groups outstanding receivables.
The Group manages credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts only with highly credit-rated authorised counterparties which are reviewed and approved annually by the Board.
The Group has Board approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions based on the long-term credit ratings of Standard & Poors and Moodys typically single A long-term credit ratings or higher.
Trading limits assigned to commercial customers are based on ratings from Dun & Bradstreet and Credit Risk Monitor.
In cases where published financial ratings are not available or inconclusive, credit application, reference checking, and obtaining of customers confidential financial information such as liquidity and turnover ratio, are required to evaluate customers credit worthiness.
Counterparties positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and there are no significant concentrations of credit risks.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date is as follows: 31 March 2013 2012 m m Cash and cash equivalents 379 424 Trade and other receivables 372 323 Derivative financial instruments assets 140 137 Available-for-sale financial assets 27 23 Held for sale assets 1 51 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 96 Financial Statements Financial Statements 21 Financial risk factors continued The Groups trade receivables are short term in nature and largely comprise amounts receivable from business customers.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups having a number of key quality customers and a customer base which is large, unrelated and internationally dispersed.
Liquidity risk management The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum flexibility in meeting changing business needs, by maintaining access to a wide range of funding sources, including capital markets and bank borrowings.
Capital market issues outstanding at 31 March 2013 include the US$500 million 5.00% 144A bond maturing in November 2014, the US$250 million 6.625% 144A bond maturing in June 2016, and the 200 million 6.75% bond maturing in November 2019.
The Group ensures that it has sufficient undrawn committed bank facilities to provide liquidity back-up to cover its funding requirements for the foreseeable future.
The Group has a core committed bank facility of US$800 million which matures in June 2016.
This facility is unsecured and contains common financial covenants for Tate & Lyle and its subsidiary companies that the pre-exceptional and amortisation interest cover ratio should not be less than 2.5 times and the multiple of net debt to EBITDA, as defined in our financial covenants, should not be greater than 3.5 times.
The Group monitors compliance against all its financial obligations and it is Group policy to manage the consolidated statement of financial position so as to operate well within these covenanted restrictions.
In both the current and comparative reporting period, the Group complied with its financial covenants at all measurement points.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are raised through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, and are then on-lent to the business units on an arms length basis.
Current Group policy is to ensure that, after subtracting the total of undrawn committed facilities, no more than 10% of gross debt matures within 12 months and at least 35% has a maturity of more than 2.5 years.
At 31 March 2013, after subtracting total undrawn committed facilities, there was no debt maturing within two and a half years 2012 none.
The average maturity of the Groups gross debt was 4.6 years 2012 4.9 years.
At the year end the Group held cash and cash equivalents of 379 million 2012 424 million and had committed facilities of 527 million 2012 500 million of which 527 million 2012 500 million was undrawn.
These resources are maintained to provide liquidity back-up and to meet the projected maximum cash outflow from debt repayment, capital expenditure and seasonal working capital needs foreseen for at least a year into the future at any one time.
The table below analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities based on the remaining period at the statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
31 March 2013 1 year 15 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 77 518 262 Interest on borrowings 41 99 30 Trade and other payables 382 3 Derivative contracts: receipts 93 271 payments 80 251 Commodity contracts 44 3 31 March 2012 1 year 15 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 142 491 273 Interest on borrowings 46 122 44 Trade and other payables 382 4 Derivative contracts: receipts 693 313 payments 699 282 Commodity contracts 21 Included in borrowings are 2,394,000 of 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Only one years worth of interest payable on these cumulative preference shares is included in the less than one year category above.
Interest on borrowings is calculated based on borrowings held at year end without taking into account future issues.
Floating-rate interest is calculated using forward interest rates derived from interest rate yield curves as at year end.
Derivative contracts include currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
All commodity pricing contracts such as options and futures are shown separately under commodity contracts.
Commodity contracts include only net settled commodity derivative contracts and gross settled commodity purchase contracts with negative fair values.
Purchase contracts outflows represent actual contractual cash flows under the purchase contracts and not their fair values.
Cash outflows from the purchase contracts are offset by cash inflows received from sale contracts: however, these inflows are not included as part of this analysis.
Financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are converted to pounds sterling using year end exchange rates.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 97
