Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 35 Contingent liabilities Trade guarantees 31 March 2013 2012 m m Trade guarantees 2 1 Trade guarantees have been given in the normal course of business by the Group at both 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012.
These are in respect of Revenue and Customs and the Rural Payments Agency for Agricultural Produce bonds, ECGD recourse agreements, letters of credit and tender and performance bonds.
Sale of EU Sugars As previously announced, American Sugar Holdings ASR has raised a number of claims totalling in the region of 40 million that it believes it has under the Share and Business Sale Agreement relating to its acquisition of the Groups EU Sugars business.
These claims in large part relate to the turbulence in the supply of raw sugar to the EU during the period prior to closing and the increase in certain rolling re-export commitments of the business.
Some, but not all, of these issues were considered in the expert adjudication on the closing accounts in which, as noted in the Annual Report 2012, the expert strongly supported Tate & Lyles position.
ASR through its subsidiary T&L Sugars Limited has now commenced formal proceedings in respect of these claims which the Group intends to vigorously defend.
Whitefox Technologies The commercial dispute with Whitefox Technologies, which was the subject of proceedings in the Supreme Court of the State of New York in June 2012 has been settled, bringing this matter to a conclusion.
Other claims The Group is subject to claims and litigation generally arising in the ordinary course of its business, some of which are for substantial amounts.
All such actions are strenuously defended but provision is made for liabilities that are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice and after taking into account the Groups insurance arrangements.
While there is always uncertainty as to the outcome of any claim or litigation, it is not expected that claims and litigation existing at the statement of financial position date will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
36 Commitments Capital commitments 31 March 2013 2012 m m Commitments for the acquisition of intangible assets 6 10 Commitments for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment 21 21 Total 27 31 Operating lease arrangements Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its land, buildings, plant and equipment.
Certain operating lease agreements allow for renewal at the end of the original term at the option of the Group.
At the statement of financial position date the Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due as follows: 31 March 2013 2012 m m Within one year 24 31 Later than one year and no later than five years 77 79 After five years 88 95 Total 189 205 37 Acquisitions and disposals 2013 Continuing operations Sucromiles On 1 August 2012, the Group completed the disposal of its share in Sucromiles SA Sucromiles, its Colombian citric acid joint venture, to its former joint-venture partner, Organizacion Ardila Lulle, for consideration of 20 million.
After recycling foreign exchange revaluation gains previously held in reserves to the income statement, an exceptional gain on disposal of 8 million Note 7 was recorded within continuing operations.
Discontinued operations Vietnam Sugars On 29 June 2012, the Group completed the sale of Vietnam Sugar to TH Milk Food Stock Company for consideration of 45 million.
After recycling foreign exchange revaluation gains previously held in reserves to the income statement, an exceptional gain on disposal of 21 million was recorded within discontinued operations Note 7.
Molasses On 20 March 2013, the Group completed the sale of land and buildings with book value of 2 million relating to the former Molasses business to W&R Barnett Ltd. Cash consideration totalled 7 million resulting in an exceptional gain on disposal of 5 million recorded within discontinued operations Note 7.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 112
