Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements changes the basis on which the financing Use of adjusted measures 1 Presentation of financial charge is calculated by applying the discount Tate & Lyle presents adjusted profit before tax statements rate to the net defined benefit obligation and and adjusted earnings per share information.
General information the presentation of costs within the income These measures are used by Tate & Lyle for As set out on page 63, the principal activity statement.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, internal performance analysis and incentive of Tate & Lyle PLC is the global provision of the new requirements would have reduced compensation arrangements for employees.
ingredients and solutions to the food, beverage operating profit by 2 million 2012 2 million The terms adjusted and exceptional items and other industries.
It operates from more and increased net finance costs recognised are not defined terms under IFRS and may than 30 production facilities around the world.
outside adjusted earnings by 6 million therefore not be comparable with similarly The Company is a public limited company 2012 9 million.
Under its current accounting titled measures reported by other companies.
incorporated and domiciled in the United policies the Group recognises actuarial gains They are not intended to be a substitute for, Kingdom.
The Company has its premium listing and losses directly in other comprehensive or superior to, statutory measurements of profit.
on the London Stock Exchange.
income, as required by the new standard.
The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being reported, excluding exceptional In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 11 Basis of preparation items, the amortisation of intangible assets Joint Arrangements which, is effective for These consolidated financial statements are acquired through business combinations and accounting periods beginning on or after presented on the basis of International Financial post-retirement benefit interest.
While the net result and net Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the items are explained in Note 7.
A reconciliation assets will remain unchanged, the presentation European Union and interpretations issued of statutory to adjusted information is provided of the Consolidated Income Statement, by the International Financial Reporting in Note 43.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Interpretations Committee IFRIC and have and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow will been prepared in accordance with the Listing New IFRS standards and change significantly as IFRS 11 prohibits Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority interpretations adopted proportionate consolidation of joint ventures and the Companies Act 2006, as applicable From 1 April 2012 the Group has adopted the which is the Groups current accounting policy, to companies reporting under IFRS.
The following new and amended IFRSs and IFRIC as allowed under IAS 31.
Under IFRS 11, joint Directors have a reasonable expectation that interpretations: ventures will be equity accounted.
Operating the Group has adequate resources to continue Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: segment results will remain unchanged and to operate for the foreseeable future.
The Group Transfer of financial assets continue to proportionately consolidate joint therefore continues to adopt the going concern Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption ventures reflecting internal reporting to the basis in preparing its consolidated financial on hyperinflation and fixed dates Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker with statements which has been applied consistently Amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes on a reconciliation to the IFRS presented figures.
The adoptions of the other standards may affect These consolidated financial statements disclosures in the Groups financial statements.
The adoption of these revised standards has have been prepared in accordance with the not had a material impact on the Groups profit The Parent Company, Tate & Lyle PLC, has not accounting policies set out in Note 2 and for the year and equity.
adopted IFRS as its statutory reporting basis.
under the historical cost convention modified Audited financial statements for the parent to include revaluation of certain financial New IFRS standards and company, prepared in accordance with UK instruments and commodities including interpretations not adopted GAAP, are set out on pages 120 to 125. derivatives at fair value through profit and loss.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations are not yet effective and have These consolidated financial statements are not been adopted early by the Group: presented in pounds sterling, which is the 2 Group accounting policies functional currency of the Parent and the Basis of consolidation Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of presentational currency of the Group.
a Subsidiaries financial statements other comprehensive Subsidiaries are all entities over which the income effective 1 July 2012 The preparation of financial statements in Group has the power to govern the financial and Amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain operating policies, generally accompanying a effective 1 January 2013 critical accounting estimates.
It also requires shareholding of more than one half of the voting Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments management to exercise its judgement in the rights and taking into account the existence presentation effective 1 January 2014 process of applying the Companys accounting of potential voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: policies.
The areas involving a higher degree consolidated from the date on which control Disclosures on offsetting effective of judgement or complexity and areas where is transferred to the Group.
They are 1 January 2013 assumptions and estimates are significant fide-consolidated from the date that control Annual improvements 2011 effective to the consolidated financial statements are ceases.
The purchase method of accounting 1 January 2013 disclosed in Note 3. is used to account for the acquisition of IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective The Group operates two business units subsidiaries by the Group.
The recognised 1 January 2013 within continuing operations: Speciality Food identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
These liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their endorsed 1 January 2014 business units meet the definition of an fair values at the date of acquisition.
The interest IFRS 11 Joint arrangements endorsed operating segment under IFRS 8.
Central costs, of minority shareholders is stated at the 1 January 2014 which include head office, treasury and non-controlling interests proportion of the fair IFRS 12 Disclosure of interest in other entities reinsurance activities, do not meet the operating values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and endorsed 1 January 2014 segment definition under IFRS 8 but have contingent liabilities recognised.
Where IFRS 13 Fair value measurement effective been disclosed as a reportable segment in necessary, adjustments are made to the 1 January 2013.
Note 4 to be consistent with internal financial statements of subsidiaries to bring The adoption of these standards, amendments management reporting.
the accounting policies used into line with and interpretations is not expected to have a those used by the Group.
All inter-company Discontinued operations include activities material impact on the Groups result for the transactions and balances between Group relating to businesses that formed part of the year or equity other than the amendment to entities are eliminated on consolidation.
The amendment to IAS 19 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 72 Financial Statements Financial Statements of the asset transferred.
The Groups share Property, plant and equipment 2 Group accounting policies of post-acquisition movements in other Land and buildings mainly comprise continued comprehensive income is recognised in other manufacturing sites and administrative facilities.
b Transactions and non-controlling comprehensive income.
Plant and machinery mainly comprise interests equipment used in the manufacturing and The Group treats transactions with Foreign currency translation operating process.
Assets under the course non-controlling interests as transactions with a Functional and presentational currency of construction comprise property, plant and equity owners of the Group.
For purchases Items included in the financial statements equipment which is in the process of being from non-controlling interests, the difference of each of the Groups entities are measured completed and not ready for use.
between any consideration paid and the using the currency of the primary economic relevant share acquired of the carrying value Property, plant and equipment is stated at environment in which the entity operates of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded historical cost less accumulated depreciation the functional currency.
Gains or losses on disposals to and impairment.
Historical cost includes financial statements are presented in pounds non-controlling interests are also recorded expenditure that is directly attributable to the sterling, which is the functional currency of inequity.
Subsequent costs are the Parent and the presentational currency included in the assets carrying amount or of the Group.
c Joint ventures recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, An entity is regarded as a joint venture if the b Transactions and balances only when it is probable that future economic Group has joint control over its operating and Foreign currency transactions are translated benefits associated with the expenditure will financial policies.
The Groups interests in into the functional currency using the exchange flow to the Group and the cost of the item jointly controlled entities are accounted for rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
All repairs and by proportionate consolidation, whereby the Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting maintenance expenditures are charged to Groups share of the joint ventures income and from the settlement of such transactions and the income statement during the financial expenses, assets and liabilities and cash flows from the translation at period end exchange year in which they are incurred.
are combined on a line-by-line basis with similar rates of monetary assets and liabilities items in the Groups financial statements.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line denominated in foreign currencies are Where necessary, adjustments are made to the recognised in the income statement, except method to allocate the cost of each asset to its financial statements of joint ventures to bring residual value over its useful economic life as when recognised in other comprehensive the accounting policies used into line with those follows: income OCI as qualifying cash flow hedges, used by the Group.
The Group recognises the qualifying quasi-equity balances or qualifying Freehold land: No depreciation portion of gains or losses on the sale of assets net investment hedges.
Freehold buildings: 20 to 50 years to the joint venture that is attributable to the Leasehold property: Period of the lease c Group entities other venturers.
The Group does not recognise Bulk liquid storage tanks: 12 to 20 years From 1 April 2004, the results and financial its share of profits or losses from the joint Plant and machinery: 3 to 28 years position of all the Groups entities that have venture that result from the Groups purchase a functional currency different from the of assets from the joint venture until it resells The assets residual values and useful lives presentation currency are translated into the assets to an external entity.
However, if a are reviewed at each statement of financial the presentation currency as follows: loss on the transaction provides evidence of a position date and adjusted if appropriate.
reduction in the net realisable value of current An assets carrying amount is written down i a ssets and liabilities, including goodwill assets, or an impairment loss, the loss is immediately to its recoverable amount if the and fair value adjustments for each recognised immediately.
assets carrying amount is greater than its statement of financial position presented, estimated recoverable amount.
are translated at the closing rate at the date d Associates of that statement of financial position: An entity is regarded as an associate if the Gains and losses on disposals are determined Group has significant influence, but not control, ii i ncome and expenses for each income by comparing the disposal proceeds with over its operating and financial policies.
the carrying amount and are included in the statement including components of Significant influence generally exists where the comprehensive income are translated income statement.
Group holds more than 20% and less than 50% at weighted average exchange rates as of the shareholders voting rights.
Associates Leased assets a reasonable approximation to the rates Leases of property, plant and equipment where are accounted for under the equity method prevailing on the transaction dates: and whereby the Groups income statement the Group assumes substantially all the risks iii all resulting exchange differences are and rewards of ownership are classified as includes its share of their profits and losses recognised as a separate component and the Groups statement of financial position finance leases.
Assets held under finance of equity within OCI.
leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair includes its share of their net assets.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the value of the leased asset and the present Prior to 1 April 2004, exchange differences were value of the minimum lease payments.
The financial statements of associates to bring the recognised in retained earnings.
accounting policies used into line with those corresponding leasing commitments, net On consolidation, exchange differences of finance charges, are included in liabilities.
When the Groups share arising from borrowings and other currency of losses in an associate equals or exceeds Leasing payments are analysed between capital instruments designated as hedges of such its interest in the associate, including any other and interest components so that the interest investments, are taken to equity.
unsecured receivables, the Group does not element is charged to the income statement recognise further losses, unless it has incurred When a foreign operation is sold, such over the period of the lease at a constant obligations or made payments on behalf of the exchange differences that have accumulated periodic rate of interest on the remaining associate.
Unrealised gains on transactions since 1 April 2004 are recognised in the income balance of the liability outstanding.
between the Group and its associates are statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Depreciation on assets held under finance eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest These exchange differences comprise the in the associate.
Unrealised losses are also leases is charged to the income statement, exchange differences on all amounts deemed and depreciated over the shorter of the lease eliminated on the same basis unless the to be part of the net investment in the foreign transaction provides evidence of an impairment operation, which are recycled to the income statement when a disposal occurs.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 73 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38 recognition criteria are met.
Capitalised c Borrowings 2 Group accounting policies development costs are amortised from the Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, continued commencement of the commercial production net of transaction costs incurred.
Where term and its useful life.
All other leases are of the product on a straight-line basis over the borrowings are designated as hedged items treated as operating leases with annual rentals period of its expected benefit.
Research and under fair value hedges, they are subsequently charged to the income statement, net of any other development expenditures are recognised remeasured for fair value changes in respect of incentives granted to the lessee, over the term as an expense as incurred.
Development costs the hedged risk with such changes recognised of the lease with incentives recognised over the previously recognised as an expense are not in the income statement.
Otherwise, borrowings period of the lease at a constant periodic rate.
recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
are subsequently stated at amortised cost: Intangible assets Capitalised costs in respect of the common any difference between the proceeds net of a Goodwill global IS IT system are amortised once it is transaction costs and the value is recognised Goodwill is calculated as the difference deployed into the businesses.
Amortisation of in the income statement over the period of the between the fair value of the consideration the assets is recognised on a straight-line basis borrowings using the effective interest rate exchanged in a business combination, over the period of their expected benefit which method.
Borrowings are classified as current excluding directly attributable acquisition costs, ranges from three to seven years.
liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional and the net fair values of the identifiable assets right to defer settlement of the liability for at Impairment and liabilities acquired and is capitalised if least 12 months after the statement of financial Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not positive.
Where the acquired interest in the net position date.
The dividends on preference subject to amortisation and are tested at least fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities shares are recognised in the income statement annually for impairment.
No intangible assets exceeds the cost of the business combination, as interest expense.
other than goodwill have an indefinite life.
In the excess is recognised immediately in the d Derivatives held for trading addition, assets in the course of construction income statement.
Goodwill is tested for Commodity instruments acquired for trading are not depreciated and are subject to annual impairment annually and whenever there is purposes are initially recognised at fair value impairment review where there is an indication an indication of impairment, and is carried at on the date a derivative contract is entered into of impairment.
Assets that are subject to cost less accumulated impairment losses.
and are subsequently re-measured at their fair amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for Gains and losses on the disposal of a business value.
Movements in fair value are recognised impairment whenever events or changes in component include the carrying amount of in the income statement.
circumstances indicate that their carrying goodwill relating to the entity sold.
amounts may not be recoverable.
An e Commodity and treasury hedging impairment loss is recognised for the amount by Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units instruments which the assets carrying amount exceeds its for the purpose of impairment testing.
The Under IAS 39, hedging relationships are recoverable amount.
Non-financial assets other allocation is made to those cash-generating categorised by type and must meet strict than goodwill that suffered an impairment in units or groups of cash-generating units that criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
previous periods are reviewed for possible are expected to benefit from the business i Cash flow hedges reversal of the impairment at each reporting combination in which the goodwill arose.
Hedges of firm commitments and highly date.
The recoverable amount is the higher b Patents and other intellectual property probable forecast transactions, including of an assets fair value less costs to sell and Patents and other intellectual property are forecast intra-group transactions that are value in use.
shown at historical cost less accumulated expected to affect consolidated profit or For the purposes of assessing impairment, amortisation and impairment losses.
Where loss, are designated as cash flow hedges.
assets other than goodwill are grouped at the the assets are acquired as part of a business To the extent that movements in the fair lowest levels for which there are separately combination, historical cost is based on their values of these instruments effectively identifiable cash inflows cash-generating units.
fair values as at the date of the combination.
offset the underlying risk being hedged Goodwill is allocated to units expected to Amortisation of the assets is recognised they are recognised in other benefit from the synergies of the business on a straight-line basis over the period of comprehensive income until the period combinations.
Further details are given their expected benefit which ranges from during which the hedged forecast in Note 3. three to 15 years.
transaction affects profit or loss, at which point the cumulative gain or loss Financial instruments c Other acquired intangible assets is recognised in operating profit, offsetting a Available-for-sale financial assets Other acquired intangible assets are intangible the value of the hedged transaction.
Equity instruments held by the Group and assets arising on consolidation of acquired designated as available-for-sale are carried businesses and include brands, recipes, ii Fair value hedges at fair value, with movements in fair value customer relationships and supplier networks.
Hedges against the movement in fair value recognised directly in equity.
Where fair value They are measured at historical cost less of recognised assets and liabilities are cannot be reliably measured, the assets are accumulated amortisation and impairment designated as fair value hedges.
To the approximated at cost.
Amortisation of the assets is recognised extent that movements in the fair values gains or losses on an asset are recycled through on a straight-line basis over the period of of these instruments effectively offset the the income statement when the asset is their expected benefit which ranges from underlying risk being hedged, they are disposed or impaired.
A significant or prolonged three to 15 years.
recognised in net finance expense offset decline in the fair value of the security below against the hedged transaction.
d Other intangible assets its cost is considered as an indicator that the Other intangible assets are shown at historical securities are impaired.
Impairments are cost less accumulated amortisation and recognised in the income statement.
Other intangible assets b Loans and receivables mainly include certain development Non-current and current receivables and loans expenditure, software costs and assets under granted are recognised initially at fair value construction relating to the common global IS IT and thereafter carried at amortised cost less system.
Costs incurred on development provisions for impairment.
Movements in projects relating to the development design carrying value are recognised in the income and testing of new or improved products are statement.
recognised as intangible assets when all the IAS Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 74 Financial Statements Financial Statements Cost comprises direct materials and, where These shares are used to satisfy share options 2 Group accounting policies applicable, direct labour costs and those and long-term share incentive plans granted continued overheads that have been incurred in bringing to employees under the Groups share option iii Hedges of net investments the inventories to their present location and schemes.
The trustee of the ESOP trust Hedges of a net investment in a foreign condition.
Cost is calculated using the first in purchases the Companys shares on the open operation are designated as net investment first out or weighted average cost methods, market using loans made by the Company hedges.
To the extent that movements appropriate to the materials and production or other loans guaranteed by the Company.
in the fair values of these instruments processes involved.
Net realisable value effectively offset the underlying risk being Trade payables represents the estimated selling price less all hedged, they are recognised in the Non-current and current trade payables estimated costs to completion and costs to be translation reserve until the period during are recognised initially at fair value and incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
which a foreign operation is disposed of subsequently measured at amortised cost Provisions are made for any slow moving, or partially disposed of, at which point the using the effective interest rate method.
cumulative gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss, offsetting the cumulative Provisions Trade receivables difference recognised on the translation Provisions for other liabilities and charges are Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair of the net investment.
recognised when the Group has a present legal value and subsequently measured at amortised or constructive obligation as a result of past cost using the effective interest method, less Hedge accounting is discontinued at the events, it is more likely than not that an outflow provision for impairment.
A provision for point when the hedging relationship no longer of resources will be required to settle the impairment of trade receivables is established qualifies for hedge accounting.
In the case of obligation and the amount can be reliably when there is objective evidence that the cash flow hedging relationships, the cumulative measured.
If the effect is material, provisions group will not be able to collect all amounts movement in the fair value of the hedging are measured using expected future cash flows due according to the original terms of the instrument previously recognised in equity up discounted at a pre-tax rate that reflects current receivables.
Significant financial difficulties to that point is retained there until the forecast market assessments of the time value of money of the debtor, probability that the debtor will transaction affects profit or loss, unless the and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, hedged transaction is no longer expected to liability.
The impact of unwinding any discount and default or delinquency in payments are occur, in which case the cumulative movement is taken to finance expense.
considered indicators that the trade receivable in fair value is transferred to profit or loss is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the immediately.
Movements in the fair value of Provisions are not recognised for future difference between the assets carrying amount hedging instruments where the relationship fails operating losses.
A provision for onerous and the present value of estimated future cash to meet the IAS 39 hedge accounting criteria or contracts is recognised when the expected flows, discounted at the original effective where the movement represents the ineffective benefits to be derived by the Group from a interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset portion of a qualifying hedging relationship contract are lower than the unavoidable cost is reduced through the use of an allowance are recognised in the income statement of meeting its obligations under the contract.
account, and the amount of the loss is immediately as other income and expense The main provisions held by the Group include recognised in the income statement within or net finance expense, as appropriate.
insurance provisions, restructuring and closure operating costs.
When a trade receivable provisions, and other provisions which relate f Embedded derivatives is uncollectible, it is written off against the primarily to legal matters and previously Where an embedded derivative is not closely allowance account for trade receivables.
related to the host contract and where the host Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously contract itself is not already recognised at fair Income taxes written off are credited against operating costs value, movements in the fair value of the The charge for current tax is based on the in the income statement.
embedded derivative are separated from the results for the year as adjusted for items which associated transaction and, except where the Cash and cash equivalents are non-taxable or disallowed.
It is calculated embedded derivative is designated as a cash Cash and cash equivalents include cash in using rates that have been enacted or flow hedging instrument, recognised in the hand, deposits held at call with banks and other substantively enacted by the statement income statement.
short-term highly liquid investments with original of financial position date.
maturities of three months or less and, for the g Fair values The tax for amounts presented in other purposes of the cash flow statement only, bank Fair values are based on market values where comprehensive income or the statement of overdrafts where the legal right of offset exists.
For unlisted securities, the changes in shareholders equity are recognised Group establishes fair value using valuation Share capital in the respective statement.
These include the use of recent Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the arms length transactions, reference to other Incremental costs directly attributable to the statement of financial position liability method similar instruments and discounted cash issue of new shares are shown in equity as in respect of temporary differences arising from flow analysis.
a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
differences between the carrying amount of Where no market prices are available, the fair Where any Group company purchases the assets and liabilities in the financial statements value of financial liabilities is calculated with Companys equity share capital and holds and the corresponding tax basis used in the reference to discounted expected future that share either directly as treasury shares computation of taxable profit.
or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all consideration paid, including any directly taxable temporary differences except as noted Inventories attributable incremental costs net of income below and deferred tax assets are recognised Inventories are stated at the lower of cost taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the extent that it is probable that taxable and net realisable value with the exception of to the Companys owners until the shares are profits will be available against which deductible certain items of merchandisable agricultural cancelled, reissued or disposed.
Where such temporary differences can be utilised.
Such commodities which are stated at market shares are subsequently sold or reissued, assets and liabilities are not recognised if the value, in line with regional industry any consideration received, net of any directly temporary differences arise from goodwill accounting practices.
attributable incremental transaction costs and or from the initial recognition other than in a the related income tax effects, is included in business combination of other assets and equity attributable to the Companys owners.
liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 75 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued The amounts recognised in the statement of c Share-based compensation 2 Group accounting policies financial position in respect of defined benefit The Group operates a number of equity-settled, continued pension plans are the net deficit or the net share-based compensation plans.
The fair value Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable surplus being the present value of the defined of employee services received in exchange for temporary differences arising on investments benefit obligation at the statement of financial the grant of the options is recognised as an in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in position date less the fair value of plan assets, expense.
The total amount to be expensed over joint ventures, except where the Group is able to together with adjustments for actuarial gains or the vesting period is determined by reference to control the reversal of the temporary difference losses charged or credited to equity and past the fair value of the options granted, excluding and it is probable that the temporary difference service costs.
The defined benefit obligation the impact of any non-market vesting conditions will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
is calculated annually by independent qualified for example, earnings targets.
Non-market Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or actuaries using the projected unit credit vesting conditions are included in assumptions substantively enacted rates that are expected method.
The present value of the defined about the number of options that are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled.
benefit obligation is determined by discounting to become exercisable.
At each statement of Deferred tax is charged or credited in the financial position date, for options granted the estimated future cash outflows using income statement, except when it relates to interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds with non-market vesting conditions, the Group items credited or charged directly to equity, revises its estimates of the number of options that are denominated in the currency in which in which case the deferred tax is also dealt the benefits will be paid, and that have terms that are expected to become exercisable.
recognises the impact of the revision of original to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
Past service costs are estimates, if any, in the income statement, Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
recognised immediately in the income when they relate to income taxes levied by the statement, unless the changes to the pension The proceeds received net of any directly same taxation authority and the Group intends attributable transaction costs are credited to plan are conditional on the employees to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on remaining in service for a specified period of share capital and share premium when the a net basis.
In this case, the past Revenue recognition service costs are amortised on a straight-line Borrowing costs a Sales of goods and services basis over the vesting period.
Borrowing costs directly arising from the Sales comprise the amount receivable in the Any gains or losses from settlement or purchase, construction or production of an ordinary course of business, net of value added curtailment are recognised in the income asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that and sales taxes, for goods and services statement when the curtailment or asset.
During the year 2 million of borrowing provided.
It comprises the fair value of the settlement occurs.
costs have been capitalised 2012 1 million consideration received or receivable for the sale at a rate of 3.8% 2012 3.7%.
Sales are recognised Actuarial gains and losses arising from at the point or points at which the Group has experience adjustments and changes in Exceptional items performed its obligations in connection with actuarial assumptions are charged or credited Exceptional items comprise items of income the contractual terms of the sales agreement immediately through the consolidated and expense, including tax items, that are primarily at the point of delivering to the statement of comprehensive income.
material in amount and unlikely to recur and customer, and in exchange obtains the right which merit separate disclosure in order to Where the actuarial valuation of a scheme to consideration.
provide an understanding of the Groups demonstrates that the scheme is in surplus, underlying financial performance.
Examples of b Interest income the recognised asset is limited to that for events giving rise to the disclosure of material Interest income is recognised on a timewhich the Group expects to benefit in future items of income and expense as exceptional proportion basis using the effective interest by refunds or a reduction in contribution.
items include, but are not limited to, impairment rate method.
For defined contribution plans, the Group events, significant business transformation c Dividend income pays contributions to publicly or privately activities, disposals of operations or significant Dividend income is recognised when the right administered pension insurance plans on individual assets, litigation claims by or against to receive payment is established.
a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
the Group and the restructuring of components The Group has no further payment obligations of the Groups operations.
See Note 7 for Employee benefits once the contributions have been paid.
a Pension obligations contributions are recognised as employee Group companies operate various pension benefit expense when they are due.
The schemes are generally funded contributions are recognised as an asset to Final dividend distributions to the Companys through payments to insurance companies, the extent that a cash refund or a reduction owners are recognised as a liability in the or trustee payments to insurance companies in the future payments is available.
Groups financial statements in the period or through trustee-administered funds, in which the dividends are approved by the b Other post-employment obligations determined by periodic actuarial calculations.
Companys shareholders, while interim dividend Some Group companies provide postThe Group has both defined benefit and defined distributions are recognised in the period in employment healthcare benefits to their retirees.
which the dividends are declared and paid.
The entitlement to these benefits is usually A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that conditional on the employee remaining in defines an amount of pension benefit that an service up to retirement age and the completion employee will receive on retirement, usually of a minimum service period.
The expected dependent on one or more factors such as age, costs of these benefits are accrued over the years of service and compensation.
period of employment using an accounting methodology similar to that for defined benefit A defined contribution plan is a pension plan pension plans.
Actuarial gains and losses under which the Group pays fixed contributions arising from experience adjustments and into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or constructive obligations to pay further or credited immediately to the consolidated contributions once these contributions have statement of comprehensive income.
obligations are valued annually by independent qualified actuaries.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 76
