Financial Statements Financial Statements 7 Exceptional items Exceptional items are as follows: Year to 31 March 2013 2012 m m Continuing operations Gain on disposal Sucromiles Note a 8 Business transformation costs Note b 20 15 Reversal of fixed asset impairment Note c 60 Reversal of provision McIntosh Note c 23 Total 12 68 Discontinued operations Gain on disposal Vietnam Note d 21 Gain on disposal Molasses Note e 5 Gain on disposal of minority holdings International Sugar Trading Note f 11 Total 26 11 Continuing operations a On 1 August 2012, the Group completed the disposal of its share in Sucromiles SA Sucromiles, its Colombian citric acid joint venture, to its former joint-venture partner, Organizacion Ardila Lulle.
After recycling foreign exchange revaluation gains previously held in reserves to the income statement, a gain on disposal of 8 million was recorded and is reported in the Bulk Ingredients segment.
Further details are set out in Note 37. b The Group has recognised an exceptional charge of 20 million 2012 15 million in relation to business transformation costs.
The Group incurred 18 million 2012 9 million of costs that did not meet the capitalisation criteria associated with the implementation of a common global IS IT platform and global Shared Services Centre, and 2 million 2012 5 million in relation to the relocation of employees and restructuring associated with the new Commercial and Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA.
In the prior year, a further 1 million of closure and other restructuring costs were incurred in relation to the Food Systems business.
These costs are reported in the Speciality Food Ingredients segment 3 million: 2012 6 million and within Central costs 17 million: 2012 9 million.
c In the prior year, the Group took the decision to re-open the mothballed facility in McIntosh, Alabama and restart the production of sucralose, which resulted in the reversal of 53 million of the impairment charge previously recognised against property, plant and equipment.
In addition, 23 million of the provision in respect of obligations relating to the mothballed facility was no longer required and was also reversed.
These exceptional items were reported within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
In addition, in November 2010 the Group signed an agreement with Amyris, Inc. to manufacture trans-beta-farnesene using assets located at the Decatur, Illinois plant that were previously redundant.
In the prior year, commercial viability of the new production process was proven resulting in a 7 million reversal of the write down previously recognised against property, plant and equipment.
This exceptional item was reported within the Bulk Ingredients segment.
The tax impact on continuing net exceptional items is a 5 million credit 2012 31 million charge.
Tax credits on exceptional costs are only recognised to the extent that losses incurred will result in tax recoverable in the future.
In the prior year, the Group recognised an exceptional tax credit of 10 million which represented the recognition of a deferred tax asset in respect of foreign tax credits recognised in association with the disposal of the ethanol facility in Fort Dodge, Iowa.
Discontinued operations d On 29 June 2012, the Group completed the sale of Vietnam Sugar to TH Milk Food Stock Company.
After recycling foreign exchange revaluation gains previously held in reserves to the income statement, a gain on disposal of 21 million was recorded.
Further details are set out in Note 37. e On 20 March 2013, the Group completed the sale of the land and buildings relating to the former Molasses business, resulting in a gain on disposal of 5 million being recognised.
Further details are set out in Note 37. f In the prior year, the Group completed the sale of its minority holdings in the former International Sugar Trading business in Egypt and Saudi Arabia.
After recycling revaluation gains previously held in reserves to the income statement, the Group recorded an exceptional gain of 11 million.
The tax impact on discontinued net exceptional items for the period is nil 2012 nil.
In the prior year, the Group recognised an exceptional tax charge of 15 million in respect of outstanding tax matters associated with the starch facilities that formed part of the former Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe segment, which are in the process of litigation.
These facilities were disposed of by the Group in the year ended 31 March 2008.
Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 81
