Financial Statements Financial Statements Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements All loans and receivables to and from subsidiary and loss account, and a corresponding 1 Parent Company accounting undertakings are shown at cost less amounts adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received policies written off where deemed unrecoverable.
net of any directly attributable transaction costs Accounting basis are credited to share capital and share premium The Parent company financial statements are Leases when the options are exercised.
The grant prepared under the historical cost convention Operating lease costs are charged to profit as by the Company of options over its equity in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 incurred on a straight-line basis.
instruments to the employees of subsidiary and applicable UK accounting standards.
As undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital permitted by Section 408 2 of the Companies Research and development contribution.
The fair value of employee services All expenditure on research and development Act 2006, the Companys profit and loss received, measured by reference to the grant account and statement of total recognised is charged to profit as incurred.
date fair value, is recognised over the vesting gains and losses are not presented in these Retirement benefits period as an increase to investment in financial statements.
The loss for the year The Company contributes to the Group pension subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding before dividends dealt with in the financial plan operated in the UK.
Details of the plan are credit to equity.
statements of the Company amounted to included within Note 30 of the Group financial 89 million 2012 loss of 79 million.
As permitted under FRS17 This includes audit fees in relation to the Final dividend distributions to the Companys Retirement Benefits, the plan is accounted for audit of the Parent company of 0.1 million equity holders are recognised as a liability in as a defined contribution plan, as the Company, 2012 0.1 million.
Accounting policies have the Groups financial statements in the period which is not the principal employer, cannot been applied consistently, other than where in which the dividends are approved by the identify its share of the underlying assets new policies have been adopted.
The financial Companys shareholders, while interim dividend and liabilities of the plan.
The employers statements are prepared on a going concern distributions are recognised in the period in contributions relate to the current service basis as disclosed in the Tate & Lyle PLC which the dividends are declared and paid.
period only and are charged to the profit consolidated financial statements for the year and loss account as they are incurred.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company Deferred tax Tangible fixed assets has a present obligation as a result of a past Deferred tax is recognised on a discounted full Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical event, it is probable that a transfer of economic provision basis on timing differences between purchase cost less accumulated depreciation.
benefits will be required to settle the obligation, the recognition of gains and losses in the Cost includes the original purchase price of the and a reliable estimate can be made of the financial statements and their recognition for asset and the costs attributable to bringing the amount of the obligation.
tax purposes that have arisen but not reversed asset to its working condition for its intended at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is not Share capital use.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line recognised on permanent differences or on Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
basis to write off the cost of tangible fixed timing differences arising on unremitted profits Incremental costs directly attributable to the assets over their estimated useful life.
Deferred tax assets issue of new shares or options are shown in tangible fixed assets comprise furniture, are recognised only to the extent that it is equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the fixtures, fittings and computer software which considered more likely than not that there will proceeds.
are depreciated over a period of five to ten be sufficient future taxable profits to permit tax years.
Impairment reviews are undertaken if Where any Group company purchases the relief of the underlying timing differences.
there are indications that the carrying values Companys equity share capital and holds may not be recoverable.
Foreign currencies that share either directly as treasury shares Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the Investments currencies are translated into pounds sterling consideration paid, including any directly Unless they are financed by foreign currency at the rates of exchange ruling on the last day attributable incremental costs net of income borrowings and designated as a fair value of the financial year the closing rate.
Profits taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to hedging relationship, investments in subsidiaries and losses are translated into pounds sterling the Companys equity holders until the shares and associates are shown at cost less amounts at the prevailing rate at the time of transaction are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where written off where there is a permanent and credited or charged to the profit and such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, diminution in value.
Investments in shares loss account.
any consideration received, net of any directly in overseas undertakings that are financed by attributable incremental transaction costs and foreign currency borrowings and designated as Share-based compensation the related income tax effects, is included in a fair value hedging relationship are retranslated The Company operates a number of equityequity attributable to the Companys equity into pounds sterling at the exchange rate ruling settled, share-based compensation plans.
These shares are used to satisfy share at the balance sheet date and the resulting Details of the plans are included within Note 26 options granted to employees under the exchange gains and losses are recognised of the Group financial statements.
The fair value Groups share option schemes.
The trustee in the profit and loss account.
Exchange gains of employee services received in exchange for purchases the Companys shares on the open and losses on the related foreign currency the grant of the options is recognised as an market using loans made by the Company or borrowings are also recognised in the profit and expense.
The total amount to be expensed over other loans guaranteed by the Company.
loss account in accordance with FRS 23 The the vesting period is determined by reference Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
to the fair value of the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting An undertaking is regarded as a subsidiary conditions for example, earnings targets.
undertaking if the Company has control over Non-market vesting conditions are included its operating and financial policies.
in assumptions about the number of options An undertaking is regarded as an associate if that are expected to become exercisable.
the Company holds a participating interest and At each balance sheet date, for options granted has significant influence, but not control, over with non-market vesting conditions, the its operating and financial policies.
Significant Company revises its estimates of the number influence generally exists where the Company of options that are expected to become holds more than 20% and less than 50% of the exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the shareholders voting rights.
revision of original estimates, if any, in the profit Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 121
