Financial Statements Financial Statements factor is applied to obtain a current value is the real discount rate, being the excess 2 Group accounting policies value in use.
The fair value less costs to sell of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
continued of an asset is used if this results in an amount If this assumption decreased by 1%, the gross Segment reporting in excess of value in use.
plan liabilities would increase by approximately IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires that 255 million.
entities identify and report the financial Estimated future cash flows for impairment performance of these operating segments.
The income statement generally comprises calculations are based on managements Segment information is reported for those expectations of future volumes and margins a regular charge to operating profit for open components for which separate financial defined benefit plans, which represents the based on plans and best estimates of the information is available and which management productivity of the assets in their current service cost of providing the benefit for the uses internally for allocating resources and year, and a finance result, which represents condition.
Future cash flows therefore exclude assessing performance.
In addition to receiving benefits from major expansion projects the net of expected income from plan assets information relating to the operating performance and an interest charge on plan liabilities.
These requiring future capital expenditure where of the business, principally sales and adjusted that expenditure has not been approved at calculations are based on expected outcomes operating performance, the Chief Operating at the start of the financial year.
The income the statement of financial position date.
Decision Maker, which is determined to be the statement is most sensitive to changes in Future cash flows are discounted using a Board, receives information on the segmental expected returns from plan assets and the discount rate based on the Groups weighted net working capital in order to assess the discount rate used to calculate the interest average cost of capital, adjusted if appropriate performance of the segments.
A 1% increase in the for circumstances specific to the asset being assumption of the discount rate would increase tested.
The weighted average cost of capital is Discontinued operations and assets the net finance expense by approximately impacted by estimates of interest rates, equity held for sale 1.1 million.
returns and marketand country-related risks.
Business components that represent separate The Groups weighted average cost of capital Full details of these assumptions, which are major lines of business or geographical areas is reviewed on an annual basis.
based on advice from the Groups actuaries, of operations are recognised as discontinued are set out in Note 30. if the operations have been disposed of, or If the cash flow or discount rate assumptions meet the criteria to be classified as held for were to change because of market conditions, Provisions sale under IFRS 5. the level of impairment could be different and The Group recognises a provision where could result in the asset impairment being Assets and disposal groups are classified as a legal or constructive obligation exists at increased or reversed, in part or in full, at a future held for sale if their carrying amount will be the statement of financial position date and date.
Goodwill impairment is never reversed.
principally recovered through a sale transaction a reliable estimate can be made of the likely rather than through continuing use.
Where appropriate, future cash Sensitivities are performed around the discount condition is regarded as met only when the sale outflows that are expected to arise over a rate and operating profit growth which are is highly probable, expected to be completed number of years are discounted to a present considered the critical assumptions in the review.
within one year and the asset or disposal value using a relevant discount rate.
Further details are set out in Notes 15 and 16. group is available for immediate sale in its At the statement of financial position date, present condition.
Operations held for sale are Retirement benefits provisions included amounts for insurance held at the lower of their carrying amount on the Among the range of retirement benefits claims payable by the Groups reinsurance date they are classified as held for sale and fair provided in businesses around the Group are company, legal matters, employee termination value less costs to sell.
a number of defined benefit pension plans and other restructuring costs.
and an unfunded healthcare benefit scheme Although provisions are reviewed on a regular in the US.
The amounts recorded in the 3 Critical accounting estimates basis and adjusted for managements best financial statements for both of these types and judgements current estimates, the judgemental nature of of arrangement are based on a number of In order to prepare these consolidated financial these items means that future amounts settled assumptions, changes to which could have statements in accordance with the accounting may be different from those provided.
a material impact on the reported amounts.
policies set out in Note 2, management has Further details are set out in Note 31. used estimates and judgements to establish the Any net deficit or surplus arising on defined amounts at which certain items are recorded.
benefit plans and the liability under the Taxation Critical accounting estimates and judgements healthcare plan is shown in the statement of The Group operates in a large number of tax are those that have the greatest impact on the financial position.
The amount recorded is the jurisdictions around the world.
Tax regulations financial statements and require the most difference between plan assets and liabilities generally are complex and in some jurisdictions difficult, subjective and complex judgements at the statement of financial position date.
The agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities about matters that are inherently uncertain.
Group only recognises a surplus to the extent can take several years.
Consequently, at the Estimates are based on factors including it has an unconditional right to a refund or a statement of financial position date, tax liabilities historical experience and expectations of reduction in future contributions.
Plan assets and assets are based on managements best future events that management believe to be are based on market value at that date.
The estimate of the future amounts that will be reasonable.
However, given the judgemental annuity purchased for the partial pensioner settled.
While the Group aims to ensure that nature of such estimates, actual results could buy-in is measured in accordance with the the estimates recorded are accurate, the actual be different from the assumptions used.
The defined benefit obligation of the affected amounts could be different from those expected.
critical accounting estimates and judgements pension membership.
Plan liabilities, including Deferred tax assets mainly arise from asset are set out below.
healthcare liabilities, are based on actuarial impairments and retirement benefit obligations estimates of the present value of future pension Impairment of assets that the Group expects to recover at some time or other benefits that will be payable to Asset impairments have the potential to in the future and by their nature the amounts members.
The most sensitive assumptions significantly impact operating profit.
In order recorded are therefore dependent on involved in calculating the expected liabilities are to determine whether impairments are required managements judgement about future events.
mortality rates and the discount rate used to the Group estimates the recoverable amount calculate the present value.
If the mortality rates Further details are set out in Notes 11 and 29. of the asset.
This calculation is usually based assumption changed, a one-year increase to on projecting future cash flows over a five-year longevity at age 65 would increase the liability period and using a terminal value to incorporate by 70 million.
The main financial assumption expectations of growth thereafter.
A discount Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 77
