Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements changes the basis on which the financing Use of adjusted measures 1 Presentation of financial charge is calculated by applying the discount Tate & Lyle presents adjusted profit before tax statements rate to the net defined benefit obligation and and adjusted earnings per share information.
General information the presentation of costs within the income These measures are used by Tate & Lyle for As set out on page 63, the principal activity statement.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, internal performance analysis and incentive of Tate & Lyle PLC is the global provision of the new requirements would have reduced compensation arrangements for employees.
ingredients and solutions to the food, beverage operating profit by 2 million 2012 2 million The terms adjusted and exceptional items and other industries.
It operates from more and increased net finance costs recognised are not defined terms under IFRS and may than 30 production facilities around the world.
outside adjusted earnings by 6 million therefore not be comparable with similarly The Company is a public limited company 2012 9 million.
Under its current accounting titled measures reported by other companies.
incorporated and domiciled in the United policies the Group recognises actuarial gains They are not intended to be a substitute for, Kingdom.
The Company has its premium listing and losses directly in other comprehensive or superior to, statutory measurements of profit.
on the London Stock Exchange.
income, as required by the new standard.
The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being reported, excluding exceptional In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 11 Basis of preparation items, the amortisation of intangible assets Joint Arrangements which, is effective for These consolidated financial statements are acquired through business combinations and accounting periods beginning on or after presented on the basis of International Financial post-retirement benefit interest.
While the net result and net Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the items are explained in Note 7.
A reconciliation assets will remain unchanged, the presentation European Union and interpretations issued of statutory to adjusted information is provided of the Consolidated Income Statement, by the International Financial Reporting in Note 43.
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Interpretations Committee IFRIC and have and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow will been prepared in accordance with the Listing New IFRS standards and change significantly as IFRS 11 prohibits Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority interpretations adopted proportionate consolidation of joint ventures and the Companies Act 2006, as applicable From 1 April 2012 the Group has adopted the which is the Groups current accounting policy, to companies reporting under IFRS.
The following new and amended IFRSs and IFRIC as allowed under IAS 31.
Under IFRS 11, joint Directors have a reasonable expectation that interpretations: ventures will be equity accounted.
Operating the Group has adequate resources to continue Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: segment results will remain unchanged and to operate for the foreseeable future.
The Group Transfer of financial assets continue to proportionately consolidate joint therefore continues to adopt the going concern Amendment to IFRS 1 First time adoption ventures reflecting internal reporting to the basis in preparing its consolidated financial on hyperinflation and fixed dates Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker with statements which has been applied consistently Amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes on a reconciliation to the IFRS presented figures.
The adoptions of the other standards may affect These consolidated financial statements disclosures in the Groups financial statements.
The adoption of these revised standards has have been prepared in accordance with the not had a material impact on the Groups profit The Parent Company, Tate & Lyle PLC, has not accounting policies set out in Note 2 and for the year and equity.
adopted IFRS as its statutory reporting basis.
under the historical cost convention modified Audited financial statements for the parent to include revaluation of certain financial New IFRS standards and company, prepared in accordance with UK instruments and commodities including interpretations not adopted GAAP, are set out on pages 120 to 125. derivatives at fair value through profit and loss.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations are not yet effective and have These consolidated financial statements are not been adopted early by the Group: presented in pounds sterling, which is the 2 Group accounting policies functional currency of the Parent and the Basis of consolidation Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of presentational currency of the Group.
a Subsidiaries financial statements other comprehensive Subsidiaries are all entities over which the income effective 1 July 2012 The preparation of financial statements in Group has the power to govern the financial and Amendments to IAS 19 Employee benefits conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain operating policies, generally accompanying a effective 1 January 2013 critical accounting estimates.
It also requires shareholding of more than one half of the voting Amendments to IAS 32 Financial instruments management to exercise its judgement in the rights and taking into account the existence presentation effective 1 January 2014 process of applying the Companys accounting of potential voting rights.
Subsidiaries are fully Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: policies.
The areas involving a higher degree consolidated from the date on which control Disclosures on offsetting effective of judgement or complexity and areas where is transferred to the Group.
They are 1 January 2013 assumptions and estimates are significant fide-consolidated from the date that control Annual improvements 2011 effective to the consolidated financial statements are ceases.
The purchase method of accounting 1 January 2013 disclosed in Note 3. is used to account for the acquisition of IFRS 9 Financial instruments effective The Group operates two business units subsidiaries by the Group.
The recognised 1 January 2013 within continuing operations: Speciality Food identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
These liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their endorsed 1 January 2014 business units meet the definition of an fair values at the date of acquisition.
The interest IFRS 11 Joint arrangements endorsed operating segment under IFRS 8.
Central costs, of minority shareholders is stated at the 1 January 2014 which include head office, treasury and non-controlling interests proportion of the fair IFRS 12 Disclosure of interest in other entities reinsurance activities, do not meet the operating values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and endorsed 1 January 2014 segment definition under IFRS 8 but have contingent liabilities recognised.
Where IFRS 13 Fair value measurement effective been disclosed as a reportable segment in necessary, adjustments are made to the 1 January 2013.
Note 4 to be consistent with internal financial statements of subsidiaries to bring The adoption of these standards, amendments management reporting.
the accounting policies used into line with and interpretations is not expected to have a those used by the Group.
All inter-company Discontinued operations include activities material impact on the Groups result for the transactions and balances between Group relating to businesses that formed part of the year or equity other than the amendment to entities are eliminated on consolidation.
The amendment to IAS 19 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2013 72
