Shareholder Facilities Annual General Meeting Shareholders Services 11:00 am on 17 April 2014 at: Web communications Shareholders have previously passed a resolution enabling the Company The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, to make documents and information available to shareholders by London, WC1H 9JP.
electronic means and via a website, rather than by sending hard Latest date for receipt of proxy instructions for the 2014 copies.
This way of communicating is enabled in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Rule 6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Annual General Meeting: 11:00 am on 15 April 2014.
Rules and the Companys Articles of Association.
Group Legal Director and Company Secretary and Making documents and information available electronically: Registered Office James Jordan enables the Company to reduce printing and postage costs: Gate House allows faster access to information and enables shareholders Turnpike Road to access documents on the day they are published on the High Wycombe Companys website: and Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR reduces the amount of resources consumed, such as paper, Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 and lessens the impact of printing and mailing activities on Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 the environment.
com The Company provides hard copy documentation to those shareholders Registrar who have requested this and is, of course, happy to provide hard copies For any enquiries concerning your shareholding or details to any shareholders upon request.
of shareholder services, please contact: The Companys website url is www.
co. uk and shareholder Capita Asset Services documentation made available electronically is generally accessible The Registry at www.
34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Electronic communications Kent The Company also encourages shareholders to elect to receive BR3 4TU notification of the availability of Company documentation by means E-mail: shares@capita.
Shareholders can sign up for this facility by logging onto Tel: 0871 664 0300 UK our website at www.
Calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8:30 am to 5:30 pm Mon-Fri. On-line facilities for shareholders You can access our Annual and Interim Reports and copies Tel: 44 20 8639 3399 from overseas of recent shareholder communications on-line at: Auditors www.
co. uk corporate investor-relations reporting-centre.
Deloitte LLP To register for on-line access, go to www.
co. uk corporate Solicitors , and click on the service you require.
To access Slaughter and May some of these services you will first be required to apply on-line.
Stockbrokers Once you have registered for access, you can make on-line enquiries J. P. Morgan Cazenove about your shareholding and advise the Company of changes in Jefferies Hoare Govett personal details.
Dividend Re-Investment Plan You can choose to invest your cash dividends in purchasing Taylor Wimpey shares on the market under the terms of the Dividend Re-Investment Plan.
For further information on the Plan and how to join, contact Capita Asset Services.
The Dividend Re-Investment Plan will not be available with regard to the payment of any special dividend.
Special dividend The Company will be paying a special dividend of 50m equivalent to 1.54 pence per share, as a cash dividend, on 3 July 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 June 2014. Dividend mandates We strongly encourage all shareholders to receive their cash dividends by direct transfer to a bank or building society account.
This ensures that dividends are credited promptly to shareholders without the cost and inconvenience of having to pay in dividend cheques at a bank.
If you wish to use this cost-effective and simple facility, complete and return the dividend mandate form attached to your dividend cheque.
Additional mandate forms may be obtained from Capita Asset Services.
140 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Principal Operating Addresses CREST shareholders UK The Company offers shareholders who hold their Taylor Wimpey shares in Taylor Wimpey plc CREST a facility for the receipt of dividends through the CREST system.
Gate House Turnpike Road Duplicate share register accounts High Wycombe If you are receiving more than one copy of our Annual Report, it may Buckinghamshire be that your shares are registered in two or more accounts on our HP12 3NR Register of Members.
You might wish to consider merging them into one single entry.
Please contact Capita Asset Services who will be Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 pleased to carry out your instructions in this regard.
Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 Low-cost share dealing services E-mail: twplc@taylorwimpey.
com We have arranged both telephone and on-line share dealing services Website: www.
co. uk for UK resident Taylor Wimpey shareholders to buy or sell up to 25,000 worth of Taylor Wimpey plc shares.
The services are operated by Capita Registered in England and Wales number 296805 Asset Services.
To use the services either visit www.
com or Taylor Wimpey UK Limited telephone 44 0 871 664 0446 calls cost 10p per minute plus network Gate House extras: lines open 8:00 am to 4:30 pm Mon-Fri. To deal, you will need Turnpike Road to provide your surname, postcode, date of birth and investor code High Wycombe which can be found on your share certificate or any form of proxy you Buckinghamshire have been sent.
Shareholders are not in any way obliged to use this HP12 3NR service when dealing in the Companys shares.
Tel: 44 0 1494 558323 Taylor Wimpey and CREST Fax: 44 0 1494 885663 Taylor Wimpey shares can be held in CREST accounts, which do not require share certificates.
This may make it quicker and easier for Spain some shareholders to settle stock market transactions.
Shareholders Taylor Wimpey fide Espaa S. A. U. who deal infrequently may, however, prefer to continue to hold their C Aragon, 223-223A shares in certificated form and this facility will remain available for the 07008 Palma fide Mallorca time being, pending the likely general introduction of dematerialised Mallorca shareholdings in due course.
Spain Taylor Wimpey share price Tel: 34 971 706570 Our share price is printed in many of the UK daily newspapers and Fax: 34 971 706565 is also available on our website www.
It appears on BBC Text and other digital television Details of all our operating locations are available interactive services.
It may also be obtained by telephoning the on our website www.
co. uk FT Cityline service on telephone 44 0 9058 171690 and ask for Taylor Wimpey on the voice activated response calls cost 75p per minute from a BT landline, other networks may vary.
Gifting shares to charity If you have a small holding of Taylor Wimpey plc shares, you may wish to consider gifting them to charity.
You can do so through ShareGift, which is administered by a registered charity, Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited.
Shares gifted are re-registered in the name of the charity, combined with other donated shares and then sold through stockbrokers who charge no commission.
The proceeds are distributed to a wide range of recognised charities.
For further details, please contact Capita Asset Services or approach ShareGift directly on www.
Unsolicited approaches to shareholders and Boiler Room Scams We receive reports from time to time from Taylor Wimpey shareholders who have each received what appear to be fraudulent approaches from third parties during recent months with respect to their shareholding in the Company.
In some cases these are cold calls and in others correspondence.
They generally purport to be from a firm of solicitors or an investment company and offer, or hold out the prospect of, large Magno silk and UPM fine are FSC certified stock gains on Taylor Wimpey shares or other investments you may hold.
sourced from carefully managed and renewed forests.
It The approaches normally include the seeking of an advance payment is produced in a mill that is certified to the ISO 1400 from the shareholder, the disclosure of the shareholders bank details environmental management standard.
The printing of or the sale of an unrelated investment.
Shareholders are advised to this report is CarbonNeutral.
be extremely wary of such approaches and advised to only deal with firms authorised by the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
You Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com can check whether an enquirer is properly authorised and report scam approaches by contacting the FCA on www.
uk consumers or Printed by CPI Colour by calling 0845 606 1234 and you can contact the Taylor Wimpey 141 Investor Relations Department at twplc@taylorwimpey.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
