Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting This notice of meeting is important and requires your immediate B comprising equity securities as defined in the Companies Act attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, 2006 up to a nominal amount of 21,635,433 such amount you are recommended to seek your own financial advice immediately to be reduced by any shares and rights to subscribe for or from a stockbroker, solicitor, bank manager, accountant, or other convert any security into shares allotted under paragraph A independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: and Markets Act 2000. i to or dinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares in Taylor practicable to their existing holdings: and Wimpey plc the Company, please pass this document together ii to holders of other equity securities as r equired by the rights of with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary: or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
If you have and so that the Boar d may impose any limits or restrictions sold or transferred part only of your holding of shares in the Company, and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or please consult the person who arranged the sale or transfer.
appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under Notice is hereby given of the seventy ninth Annual General Meeting the laws of, any territory or any other matter, of the Company to be held on 17 April 2014 at 11:00 am at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, such authorities to apply until the end of the Annual General WC1H 9JP for the following purposes: Meeting of the Company in 2015 or, if earlier, until the close of business on 16 July 2015 but, in each case, so that the Company Ordinary Business may make offers and enter into agreements during this period Ordinary Resolutions: which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to 1.
T o receive the Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report, subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after Strategic Report, the Auditors Report and the Financial Statements the authority ends: and the Board may allot shares or grant rights for the year ended 31 December 2013. to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such 2.
T o declare due and payable on 21 May 2014 a final dividend offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
of 0.47 pence per ordinary share of the Company for the year Special Resolutions: ended 31 December 2013 to shareholders on the register at 14.
That, if r esolution 13 is passed, the Board be given the power to close of business on 11 April 2014. allot equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for 3.
To re-elect as a Director, Kevin Beeston.
cash under the authority given by that resolution and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash, 4.
To re-elect as a Director, Pete Redfern.
free of the restriction in Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited: 5.
To re-elect as a Director, Ryan Mangold.
A to the allotment of equity securities and sale of tr easury shares 6.
To re-elect as a Director, James Jordan.
for cash in connection with an offer of or invitation to apply for 7.
To re-elect as a Director, Kate Barker CBE.
equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph B of resolution 13, by way of a rights issue only : 8.
To re-elect as a Director, Mike Hussey.
i to or dinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 9.
To re-elect as a Director, Robert Rowley.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 10.
To elect as a Director, Baroness Ford of Cunninghame.
ii to holders of other equity securities, as r equired by the 11.
T o re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company, to hold rights of those securities, or as the Board otherwise office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which considers necessary: accounts are laid before the Company.
and so that the Boar d may impose any limits or restrictions 12.
Subject to the passing of r esolution 11, to authorise the Audit and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or Committee to determine the remuneration of the auditors on appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, behalf of the Board.
record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and 13.
That the Boar d be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for B in the case of the authority granted under paragraph A of or convert any security into shares in the Company: resolution 13 and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares for cash, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph A up to a nominal amount of 10,817,717 such amount to be A above of equity securities up to a nominal amount of reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities as 1,622,657, such power to apply until the conclusion of the defined in the Companies Act 2006 allotted under paragraph Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 or, if earlier, B below in excess of 10,817,717 : and until the close of business on 16 July 2015, but during this 132 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 period the Company may make of fers, and enter into agreements, For the purposes of this r esolution the terms political donations, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted and political parties, independent election candidates, political treasury shares to be sold after the power ends: and the Board organisation and political expenditure have the meanings may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such given by Sections 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006. offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
That the Company be authorised for the purposes of Section 701 19.
That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within of the Company may continue to be called on not less than the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of 14 clear days notice.
the ordinary shares of 1p each of the Company ordinary shares, Explanatory notes relating to each of the above resolutions are set provided that: out on pages 135 to 139.
A the maximum number of or dinary shares hereby authorised Action to be taken to be purchased shall be 324,531,499: If you wish to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in B the minimum price which may be paid for or dinary shares person, please bring with you the attendance card accompanying is 1p per ordinary share: this document and retain it until the end of the meeting.
It will help to authenticate your right to attend, speak and vote, and will help us to C the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may register your attendance without delay.
Registration will be available be paid for an ordinary share is the highest of: i an from 9:30 am on the day of the meeting.
For the safety and comfort of amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle those attending the meeting, large bags, cameras, recording equipment market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from and similar items will not be allowed into the building and in the interests the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five of security, by attending the meeting, upon request, you hereby agree business days immediately preceding the date on which to be searched together with any bags and other possessions.
The such ordinary share is purchased: and ii the higher of meeting will commence at 11:00 am and light refreshments will be the price of the last independent trade and the highest available from 9:30 am and also after the conclusion of the meeting.
independent bid on the trading venues where the There is wheelchair access to the venue for shareholders who require purchase is carried out: it or those with reduced mobility.
However, where required, attendees are strongly advised to bring their own carers to assist with their general D the authority her eby conferred shall expire at the earlier mobility around the venue.
An induction loop system operates in the of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the meeting room.
Directions to the venue can be found on the reverse Company in 2015 and 16 October 2015 unless such of your attendance card.
authority is renewed prior to such time: and If you would like to vote on the resolutions but cannot come to the E the Company may make contracts to pur chase ordinary Annual General Meeting, please complete the proxy form sent to you shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the with this notice and return it to our registrar as soon as possible.
In order expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly for it to count, the registrar must receive it by no later than 11:00 am on or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may purchase 15 April 2014.
If you prefer, you can submit your proxy electronically either ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contracts, as if the via the internet at www.
com or, if you are a CREST authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
member, through the CREST system by completing and transmitting Special Business a CREST proxy instruction as described in the procedural notes below.
T o approve the Directors Remuneration Policy Report set out Your Directors are of the opinion that the resolutions to be proposed on pages 62 to 63 and contained in the Directors Remuneration at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company Report for the financial year ended 31 December 2013. and its shareholders as a whole and recommend you to vote in favour 17.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report other than the of them.
Each Director will be doing so in respect of all of his or her own Directors Remuneration Policy Report on pages 60 to 75 for beneficial shareholding.
the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
That in accor dance with Sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company and all companies which are its subsidiaries when this resolution is passed are authorised to: A make political donations to political parties and or independent election candidates not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: B make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate: and C incur political expenditur e not exceeding 250,000 in aggregate, during the period beginning with the date of passing this resolution and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015.
co. uk 133 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Inspection of documents The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office, Gate House, Turnpike Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR, during normal business hours from the date of this notice of meeting until the date of the Annual General Meeting and at The British Medical Association, BMA House, Tavistock Square, London, WC1H 9JP from 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting until it ends: copies of the Executive Directors service contracts: and copies of the letters of appointment of the Chairman and the Independent Non Executive Directors: A copy of the full Annual Report and Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013, including the Directors Remuneration Policy referred to in resolution 16 and the Directors Remuneration Report other than the Directors Remuneration Policy referred to in resolution 17, is also available on our website www.
co. uk corporate By Order of the Board James Jordan Group Legal Director and Company Secretary Taylor Wimpey plc Registered Office: Gate House Turnpike Road High Wycombe Buckinghamshire HP12 3NR Registered in England and Wales under number 296805 10 March 2014 134 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Notes to the Notice of Meeting Procedural notes 6.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 1.
T o be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, the votes which shareholders may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6:00 pm have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person on 15 April 2014 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting.
has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give Shareholders then on the Register of Members shall be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting in respect of the instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Such persons should direct any communications and enquiries to number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant Register of Members after that deadline the registered holder of the shares by whom they were nominated and not to the Company or its registrar.
shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
The statement of the rights of shar eholders in relation to the 2.
As at 6 Mar ch 2014 being the latest practicable date prior appointment of proxies in notes 3 and 4 above does not apply to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these notes can capital consisted of 3,245,314,993 ordinary shares, carrying one only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as 8.
CREST members who wish to appoint a pr oxy or proxies through at 6 March 2014 were 3,245,314,993. the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by 3.
If you ar e a shareholder of the Company at the time and date set using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST out in note 1 above, you are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and all or any of your rights to attend and to speak and vote on your those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, behalf at the meeting.
Shareholders may appoint more than one should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different 9.
In or der for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a CREST service to be valid, it must be properly authenticated in shareholder of the Company but must attend the Annual General accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specifications, Meeting to represent you.
A proxy form which may be used to and must contain the information required for such instruction, as make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies described in the CREST Manual available via www.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you CREST.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction Capita Asset Services as soon as possible on 0871 664 0300 calls given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8:30 am to transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 5:30 pm Monday to Friday.
In the case of joint holders, where more 11:00 am on 15 April 2014.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST holders appear in the Companys register of members in respect of in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change the joint holdings the first-named being the most senior.
of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be 4.
T o be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy communicated to the appointee through other means.
must be received by post to Freepost RSBH-UXKS-LRBC, PXS, 10.
CREST members and, wher e applicable, their CREST sponsors 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, or during or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and normal business hours only by hand at Capita Asset Services, The Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, or, if CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and you prefer, electronically via the internet at www.
limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST com or, if you are a member of CREST, via the service provided by Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited at the electronic address provided concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal in note 9, in each case no later than 11:00 am on 15 April 2014. member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service Please note that all forms of proxy received after this time will be provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service void.
A form of proxy sent electronically at any time that is found to provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure contain any virus will not be accepted.
that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system 5.
The r eturn of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, any CREST Proxy Instruction as further described in notes 8 and 9 where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
co. uk 135 Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued 11.
The Company may tr eat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction Explanatory notes to the resolutions in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or mor e Ordinary resolutions require more than half of the votes cast corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all to be in favour of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in Resolution 1: To receive the annual report and financial statements relation to the same shares.
English company law requires the Directors to lay the Financial 13.
Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting Statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to and the reports of the Directors, namely the Strategic Report, Directors require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, and Auditors before a out any matter relating to: general meeting of the Company the Annual Report.
i the audit of the Company s accounts including the auditors Resolution 2: To declare a final dividend report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 0.47 pence the Annual General Meeting: or per share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 21 May 2014 ii any cir cumstance connected with an auditor of the Company to shareholders who are on the Register of Members at the close of ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which business on 11 April 2014. annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006. Dividend Re-Investment Plan Subject to shareholders approving the dividend as set out in Resolution The Company may not r equire the shareholders requesting any 2 at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 17 April 2014, the such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Company will be offering a Dividend Re-Investment Plan the DRIP.
Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the The DRIP is provided and administered by the DRIP plan administrator, Company is required to place a statement on a website under Capita IRG Trustees Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The DRIP offers shareholders the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when opportunity to elect to invest cash dividends received on their ordinary it makes the statement available on the website.
The business shares, in purchasing further ordinary shares of the Company.
These which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes shares would be bought in the market, on competitive dealing terms.
any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Full details of the terms and conditions of the DRIP and the actions required to participate in it are available on the Companys website: 14.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions www.
co. uk corporate  dividend and participate in the meeting.
The Company must cause to be or on request from the registrar, Capita Asset Services, The answered any such question relating to the business being dealt Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: i to do e-mail: shares@capita.
co. uk tel: 0871 664 0300 UK or so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or 44 20 8639 3399 overseas.
involve the disclosure of confidential information: ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to Resolutions 3 to 10: Election of Directors a question: or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code which states or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders, the Board has resolved that all Directors 15.
A copy of this Notice, and other information r equired by of the Company, including Margaret Ford, who was appointed after Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at the 2013 AGM, but excluding Tony Reading, who retires at the www.
co. uk corporate conclusion of the AGM, will retire and, being eligible, offer themselves 16.
V oting on all resolutions at this years Annual General Meeting for election or re-election, as appropriate, by shareholders at the will be conducted by way of a poll, rather than on a show of Annual General Meeting.
The Board believes that a poll is more representative Details of the Directors service contracts, remuneration and interests of shareholders voting intentions because it gives as many in the Companys shares and other securities are given in the Directors shareholders as possible the opportunity to have their votes Remuneration Report to shareholders on pages 65 to 75 of the Report counted whether their votes are tendered by proxy in advance and Accounts.
Full biographical information concerning each Director is of, or in person at, the Annual General Meeting.
The results of on pages 42 and 43 of the Report and Accounts.
the poll will be announced via a Regulatory Information Service and made available at www.
co. uk corporate as soon The following summary information is given in support of the Boards as practicable after the Annual General Meeting.
proposal for the re-election of the Directors of the Company: Kevin Beeston offers himself for re-election.
Kevin has been Chairman of the Board since July 2010.
The Board is satisfied that he continues to carry out his duties to a very high standard including at meetings of the Board and of the Nomination Committee which he Chairs and the Remuneration Committee, and that his other commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote to the Company.
His biography appears on page 42 and there is additional information on page 49.
136 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Pete Redfern offers himself for re-election.
proposed that the auditors are appointed from the conclusion of the 2014 Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general Pete has been Chief Executive since July 2007 and was previously Group Chief Executive of George Wimpey Plc.
His biography meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders.
Following an annual review of Deloittes performance, details of which are set out appears on page 42 and there is additional information on page 49. on page 56, the Board recommends the re-appointment of Deloitte Ryan Mangold offers himself for re-election.
Ryan has been Group Finance Director since November 2010.
His biography appears on page 42 and there is additional Resolution 12: Authorisation of the Audit Committee to agree information on page 49. on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte as auditors The Board seeks shareholders authority for the Audit Committee James Jordan offers himself for re-election.
to determine on behalf of the Board the remuneration of Deloitte for James has been Group Legal Director since July 2011 and is their services.
The Board has adopted a procedure governing the also the Group Company Secretary, a position he has held since appointment of Deloitte to carry out non-audit services, details of 2007.
His biography appears on page 42 and there is additional which are given in the Audit Committee Report.
Details of non-audit information on page 49. services performed by Deloitte in 2013 are given in Note 6 on page 98 of the Report and Accounts.
Kate Barker CBE offers herself for re-election.
Kate has been an Independent Non Executive Director since April Resolution 13: Authority to allot shares 2011.
The Board is satisfied that she continues to be independent in The Directors wish to renew the existing authority to allot unissued character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of the shares in the Company, which was granted at the Companys last Board and of the Audit and Nomination Committees, and that her other Annual General Meeting held on 25 April 2013 and is due to expire at commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, Paragraph she is able to devote to the Company.
Her biography appears on A of resolution 13 would give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary page 43 and there is additional information on page 49. shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to Mike Hussey offers himself for re-election.
This amount Mike has been an Independent Non Executive Director since July 2011. represents approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share capital The Board is satisfied that he is independent in character and judgement of the Company as at 6 March 2014, the latest practicable date prior to in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board and of the Audit publication of this notice of meeting.
and Nomination Committees, and that his other commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI, to the Company.
His biography appears on page 43 and there is paragraph B of resolution 13 would give the Directors authority to allot additional information on page 49. ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into ordinary shares in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary Robert Rowley offers himself for re-election.
shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to 21,635,433 Rob has been an Independent Non Executive Director since representing 2,163,543,328 ordinary shares, as reduced by the January 2010 and the Senior Independent Director since April 2010. nominal amount of any shares issued under paragraph A of resolution The Board is satisfied that he continues to be independent in character 13.
This amount before any reduction represents approximately and judgement in applying his expertise at meetings of the Board and two-thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at of the Audit Committee which he Chairs and the Nomination and 6 March 2014, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Remuneration Committees, and that his other commitments do not notice of meeting.
detract from the extent or quality of time which he is able to devote to the Company.
His biography appears on page 42 and there is The authorities sought under paragraphs A and B of resolution 13 additional information on page 49. will expire at the earlier of 16 July 2015 and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015.
Baroness Ford of Cunninghame offers herself for election.
Margaret has been an Independent Non Executive Director since The Directors have no present intention to exercise either of the April 2013, having been appointed by the Board following the 2013 authorities sought under this resolution.
However, if they do exercise AGM.
The Board is satisfied that she continues to be independent the authorities, the Directors intend to follow ABI recommendations in character and judgement in applying her expertise at meetings of concerning their use including as regards the Directors standing for the Board and of the Remuneration Committee which she will Chair re-election in certain cases.
from April 2014 and Nomination Committee, and that her other commitments do not detract from the extent or quality of time which Special Resolutions Special resolutions require at least a 75% majority of votes cast she is able to devote to the Company.
Her biography appears on page 42 and there is additional information on page 49. to be cast in favour.
Resolution 14: Authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights The Board confirms that each of the above Directors has recently The Board wishes to renew the existing authority from shareholders to been subject to formal performance evaluation, details of which are allot shares or sell any shares held in treasury for cash otherwise than set out in the Corporate Governance Report in the Annual Report on to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
Resolution 14, which pages 50 to 51, and that each continues to demonstrate commitment will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore requires a 75% and to be an effective member of the Board.
majority of votes to be cast in favour, would give the Directors the authority to allot ordinary shares or sell any ordinary shares which the Resolution 11: Re-appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte Company elects to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them as auditors of the Company to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general meeting at which accounts are laid before the shareholders.
It is therefore Taylor Wimpey plc www.
co. uk 137 Notes to the Notice of Meeting continued This authority would be, similar to previous years, limited to allotments Special Business or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity securities if required by the rights of those shares or Ordinary Resolutions as the Board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to an Resolution 16: Approval of the Remuneration Policy Report aggregate nominal amount of 1,622,657 representing 162,265,749 The Company is separately required to seek shareholders approval of ordinary shares.
This aggregate nominal amount represents its policy on remuneration of directors Directors Remuneration Policy approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company set out in the Directors Remuneration Report at pages 61 to 63.
The as at 6 March 2013, the latest practicable date prior to publication vote is a binding one.
In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the The Directors Remuneration Policy, if approved, will take effect from Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the the date of approval of the shareholders and will apply until replaced by Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative a new or amended policy.
Once the policy is effective, the Company usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the will not be able to make remuneration payments to a director, or loss Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take of office payments to a current or past director, unless the payment is place without prior consultation with shareholders.
consistent with the approved policy or has been otherwise approved The authority will expire at the earlier of 16 July 2015 and the conclusion by shareholders.
of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2015.
If the Directors Remuneration Policy is not approved by the shareholders Resolution 15: Authority to make market purchases of shares for any reason, the Company will, if and to the extent permitted to do so Any purchases under this authority would be made in one or more under the Companies Act 2006, continue to make payments to directors tranches and would be limited in aggregate to 10% of the ordinary in accordance with its existing contractual arrangements and will seek shares of the Company in issue at the close of business on shareholder approval for a revised policy as soon as practicable and, 6 March 2014. in any event, no later than 31 December 2014.
The maximum price to be paid on any exercise of the authority would The Board considers that appropriate executive remuneration plays not exceed the highest of i 105% of the average of the middle market a vital part in helping to achieve the Companys overall objectives, by quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the five business days attracting and retaining executives of the calibre necessary to deliver immediately preceding the date of the purchase: and ii the higher of the the Companys strategy.
The policy requires a substantial proportion price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent of executive pay to be variable and linked to the achievement of bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out.
Shares challenging targets and strategic goals.
It also covers certain special purchased pursuant to these authorities could be held as treasury recruitment circumstances.
The policy, being binding on the Company, shares, which the Company can re-issue quickly and cost-effectively, has been drafted to cover a number of scenarios that may not, in and provides the Company with additional flexibility in the management practice, arise and is therefore not entirely representative of the actual of its capital base.
The total number of shares held as treasury shall not remuneration paid to executives for performance during 2013 or at any one time exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
potentially available for performance during 2014, details of which are Accordingly, any shares bought back over the 10% limit will be set out in detail in the Directors Remuneration Report, in the section cancelled.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
entitled Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 66 to 75 and which are dealt with in Resolution 17 below.
This is a standard resolution, sought by the majority of public listed companies at Annual General Meetings.
The Boards current intention The Board believes that the remuneration policy proposed in this of utilising this authority is generally limited to acquiring shares for the resolution represents an appropriate and proportionate framework to various share scheme arrangements.
The Board would only consider support the achieving of the Companys strategic goals and rewarding a more formal share purchase programme if it would result in an executives for that performance.
increase in earnings per share and was in the best interests of Subject to shareholder approval, this policy will come into operation shareholders generally, having regard to all relevant circumstances.
upon the conclusion of this AGM and will apply until replaced by a new The total number of options, conditional share awards and warrants or amended policy.
It is the Committees intention that it will submit its to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding as at the close of business remuneration policy to shareholders for approval once every three years on 6 March 2014 was 68,061,712, representing approximately 2.1% of unless circumstances dictate otherwise.
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at that date and Resolution 17: Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report approximately 2.3% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital for the year ended 31 December 2013 following any exercise in full of this authority to make market purchases.
The directors are required to prepare an annual report detailing the The Company has warrants over 9,298,617 ordinary shares, remuneration of the directors and a statement by the chairman of representing 0.3% of the Companys ordinary issued share capital the Remuneration Committee together the Directors Remuneration as at close of business on 6 March 2014.
If the authority given by Report.
The Company is required to seek shareholders approval in Resolution 15 were to be fully used, these would represent 0.3% respect of the contents of this report on an annual basis excluding the of the Companys ordinary issued share capital at that date.
part containing the Directors Remuneration Policy which is dealt with in Resolution 16.
The vote is an advisory one.
This authority will last until the earlier of 16 October 2015 and the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2015.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 60 to 75 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
138 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report p3-39 Directors Report: Governance p41-79 Financial Statements p81-131 Shareholder Information p132-141 Resolution 18: Authority to make political donations In order to comply with its obligations under the Companies Act 2006 and to avoid any inadvertent infringement of that Act, the Board wishes to renew its existing authority for a general level of political donation and or expenditure.
Resolution 18 seeks to renew the existing authority for the Company to make political donations and incur political expenditure.
The Companies Act 2006 requires this authority to be divided into three heads as set out in Resolution 18 with a separate amount specified as permitted for each.
An amount not exceeding 250,000 for each head of the authority has been proposed.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Resolution 18 extends approval to all of the Companys subsidiaries.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015, unless renewal is sought at that meeting.
The Company and the Group do not make any donations to political parties or organisations but do support certain industry-wide initiatives such as those of the Home Builders Federation in the UK.
Whilst the Board does not regard this as political in nature, in certain circumstances donations made for charitable or similar purposes could possibly be treated as a donation to a political organisation under the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
For example, a donation to a humanitarian charity which may also operate as a political lobby, sponsorship, subscriptions, paid leave to employees fulfilling public duties and payments to industry representative bodies could constitute a donation to a political organisation within the current definitions in the Companies Act 2006.
Details of the Companys and the Groups charitable donations appear on page 26 of the Report and Accounts.
Special Resolutions Resolution 19: Notice of general meetings This resolution will be proposed as a special resolution and therefore requires a 75% majority of votes to be cast in favour.
The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 have increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
At the 2012 Annual General Meeting, a resolution was passed approving the Companys ability to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings, which will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice on not less than 14 clear days notice.
As this approval will expire at the conclusion of this Annual General Meeting, Resolution 21 proposes its renewal.
The shorter notice period of 14 clear days would not be used as a matter of routine for any general meeting, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of a particular meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
The renewed approval will be effective until the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2014, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must in respect of that meeting make available electronic voting to all shareholders.
