50 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED decisions.
Jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the Sale of gift vouchers are treated as future liabilities and revenue is initially recognised at the date of the award of the entitlements and a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects equity method equity accounted investees and are initially is recognised when the gift vouchers are redeemed against a spread over the period during which the entitlements are convertible neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
The fair value of the entitlements is based on Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been a Monte Carlo valuation model, taking into account the terms and enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of e Leases conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the total recognised income and expense and equity movements of the deferred tax liability is settled.
Rentals under operating leases are charged as incurred, unless there equity accounted investees, from the date that significant inuence Transactions of the Company-sponsored Employee benefit Trust are pre-determined rental increases in the lease, in which case they or joint control commences until the date that significant inuence or EBT are treated as being those of the Company and are therefore Deferred tax is not recognised for temporary differences relating to are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest reected in the parent company and Group financial statements.
In investments in subsidiaries to the extent they will not reverse in the incentives received are recognised as an integral part of total lease in an equity accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is particular, the EBTs purchases and sales of shares in the Company foreseeable future.
expense, over the term of the lease.
reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discounted except are debited and credited directly to equity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive Certain rental expense is determined on the basis of revenue achieved Where the Company grants options over its own shares to that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
in specic retail locations and is accrued for on that basis.
the employees of its subsidiaries, it recognises, in its individual differences can be utilised.
financial statements, an increase in the cost of investment in its c Foreign currency The Groups intangible asset, as shown in note 10, relates to leased Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the premises which have a guaranteed residual value.
The guaranteed subsidiaries equivalent to the equity-settled share-based payment Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which value arises because the next tenant, based on current market charge recognised in its consolidated financial statements with the functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate case it is recognised in equity.
Income tax comprises current and conditions, will pay this amount to the Group.
Due to the likelihood corresponding credit being recognised directly in equity.
ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities deferred tax.
that the money will be recoverable, the asset is not amortised.
denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are h Derivatives translated to functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling j Dividend distribution f Pension costs The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised foreign currency exposure.
Derivatives are recognised initially at Contributions payable to dened contribution schemes in respect are recognised in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and as a liability in the Group and Company financial statements in the fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in profit or of pension costs and other post retirement benets are charged liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair period in which it is declared.
to the consolidated income statement in the period to which they loss when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are value are translated to functional currency at foreign exchange rates relate.
Differences between contributions payable in the year measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for as ruling at the dates the values were determined.
k Intangible assets and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or described below.
Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill prepayments in the balance sheet.
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is Cash ow hedges and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the g Share based payments sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to designated as a cash ow hedge are recognised directly in other The Group operates an equity settled share based compensation plan.
sterling at average foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective.
To l Property, plant and equipment Share options and conditional share awards transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated since the transition date are recognised directly in a separate Share options and conditional share awards are measured at fair value recognised in profit or loss.
Depreciation is provided on all component of equity.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes pricing model, taking If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the part or in full, the relevant amount in the foreign currency translation into account the terms and conditions of the options awards vesting.
accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then hedge cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset over its expected reserve is transferred to profit or loss.
The grant date fair value is expensed on a straight line basis over accounting is discontinued prospectively.
The cumulative gain or loss useful life, on the following bases: the vesting period i. e. the period in which the employees become previously recognised in other comprehensive income remains there d Revenue recognition unconditionally entitled to share options awards based on an t Leasehold improvements: until the forecast transaction occurs.
When the hedged item is a Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Shares of Ted Baker PLC Straight line over the period of the lease.
non-financial asset, the amount recognised in other comprehensive normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales held by the Company for the purpose of lling obligations in respect income is transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when related taxes.
Retail revenue is recognised when a Group entity sells of employee share plans are deducted from equity in the balance t Fixtures, ttings and office equipment: it is recognised.
In other cases the amount recognised in other a product to the customer.
Wholesale revenue is recognised when sheet.
Any surplus or deficit arising on the sale of the Ted Baker PLC 20% to 25% per annum on a straight-line basis apart comprehensive income is transferred to profit or loss in the same goods are delivered and title has passed.
Licence income receivable shares held by the Company is included as an adjustment to reserves.
from computer equipment, which is 33% per annum on a period that the hedged item affects profit or loss.
from licensees is accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of straight-line basis.
Value Creation Plan the relevant licence agreement, which is typically on the basis of a i Taxation t Motor vehicles: minimum payment and a variable amount based on turnover.
The Group also operates a Value Creation Plan VCP which Corporation tax payable is recognised on taxable profits using tax 25% per annum on a straight-line basis.
awards entitlements to certain employees and directors of the The Group sells retail products with the right of return and experience rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
These entitlements are convertible into options over ordinary is used to estimate and provide for the value of such returns at the t Assets under construction: Deferred tax is recognised in full, using the balance sheet liability shares subject to the Groups share price reaching certain targets.
Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost less any time of sale when considered significant.
Credit notes or exchanges method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised provision for impairment and transferred to completed assets are available to customers returning unwanted products with proof assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value when substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to of purchase within 28 days of the date of purchase.
However, if the deferred tax arises from be ready for use have occurred.
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TED BAKER ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 13 51
