OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 67 General information Principal activity, business review and future developments The Companys shareholders The Company has been notified of the principal activity of the Group is retailing and associated activities following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares as at in the UK, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the Republic of 23 February 2013 and as at the date of this report: Ireland, India, Malaysia, Poland, Slovakia, South Korea, Thailand and % of issued share % of issued share Turkey.
The Group also provides retail banking and insurance services capital as at capital as at the 23February 2013 date of this report through its subsidiary, Tesco Bank.
Following a strategic review, the Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 5.08 5.08 Group has decided to dispose of its US operations.
Norges Bank 5.00 5.00 Group results Group revenue excluding VAT rose by 0.9 billion to Blackrock, Inc. 4.96 4.96 64.8 billion, representing an increase of 1.4%.
Group profit before tax decreased by 2,078 million to 1,960 million.
Profit for the year Legal & General Investment was 120 million, of which 124 million was attributable to equity Management Limited 3.99 3.99 holders of the parent company.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association Dividends The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of 10.13p per ordinary share, to be paid on 5 July 2013 to members of the shareholders.
on the Register at the close of business on 26 April 2013.
Together Directors and their interests The Directors who served during the with the interim dividend of 4.63p per ordinary share paid in December year were: Richard Brasher: Sir Richard Broadbent: Gareth Bullock: 2012, the full year dividend will be maintained at 14.76p per ordinary Patrick Cescau: Stuart Chambers: Philip Clarke: Karen Cook: Ken share 2011 12: 14.76p.
Hanna: Andrew Higginson: Ken Hydon: Tim Mason: Laurie McIlwee: Fixed assets Capital expenditure excluding business combinations Dame Lucy Neville-Rolfe CMG: Deanna Oppenheimer: David Potts: amounted to 3.0 billion compared with 3.7 billion the previous year.
The biographical details of the present Directors are set out on pages 24 and 25 of this In the Directors opinion, the properties of the Group have an open Annual Report.
market value well in excess of the book value of 22.9 billion which has been included in these financial statements.
The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the shares of Tesco PLC, along with details of Directors share options, are Share capital, control of the Company and significant agreements contained in the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages Details of the Companys share capital, including changes during the 44 to 66. year in the issued share capital and details of the rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, are set out in Note 27 on page 120.
At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights with regards interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights subsidiaries.
A qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined or the transfer of securities in the Company and the Company is not in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 is in force for the benefit aware of any agreements between holders of securities that result of each of the Directors and the Company Secretary who is also in such restrictions.
a Director of certain subsidiaries of the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2012 AGM by law.
In respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be topurchase its own shares in the market up to a maximum of indemnified, the Company maintained a directors and officers approximately 10% of its issued share capital.
No shares were liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
purchased under that authority during the financial year.
The Company is seeking to renew the authority at the forthcoming Employment policies We know that our colleagues are key AGM, within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
to the delivery of our Core Purpose: We make what matters better, together.
We regularly listen and respond to our colleagues through Shares held by the Companys Employee Share Incentive Plan Trust, various channels to ensure that we know how they are feeling and International Employee Benefit Trust, Tesco Ireland Share Bonus they are involved in key decisions that affect them.
Internal Scheme Trust and Tesco Employee Share Scheme Trust rank pari communications are designed to ensure that employees are well passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
Voting informed about the business of the Group.
rights and rights of acceptance of any offer relating to the shares held in these trusts rests with the trustees, who may take account Everyone is welcome at Tesco and this is essential to how we do ofany recommendation from the Company.
Voting rights are not business.
Our Values underpin the development of fair and inclusive exercisable by the employees on whose behalf the shares are held policies to encourage engagement and drive inspiring behaviours intrust.
so that colleagues can be their best and contribute to really make a difference.
We are committed to improving the skills, knowledge The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would and well-being of our colleagues.
The Groups selection, training, take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the development and promotion policies ensure equal opportunities Company.
The Company does not have agreements with any for all colleagues regardless of factors such as gender, marital status, Director or Officer that would provide compensation for loss of office race, age, sexual preference and orientation, colour, creed, ethnic or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of origin, religion or belief, disability or trade union affiliation.
All of the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted our decisions are based on merit.
under such plans to vest on a takeover.
Colleagues are encouraged to become involved in the financial While the Company has contractual and other arrangements with performance of the Group through a variety of voluntary share schemes.
numerous third parties in support of its business activities, none of the arrangements is individually regarded as essential to the Companys business.
68 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 General information continued Political and charitable donations Cash donations to charities in Going concern The Directors consider that the Group and the the financial year amounted to 22,185,062 2011 12: 25,646,209.
Company have adequate resources to remain in operation for the Total contributions to community projects including cash, causeforeseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going related marketing, gifts-in-kind, staff time and management costs concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Events after the Balance Sheet date There were no material events There were no political donations in the financial year 2011 12: nil.
after the Balance Sheet date.
During the year, the Group made contributions of 33,583 2011 12: Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP 28,137 in the form of sponsorship for political events: Conservative as auditors of the Company and the Group will be proposed at the Party 11,210: Labour Party 11,452: Liberal Democrat Party 6,921: 2013 AGM.
Directors statement of disclosure of information to auditors Supplier payment policy Tesco PLC is a signatory to the Prompt Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the Payment Code in the UK.
More information about the Code can date of this Annual Report and Financial Statements have each be found at www.
Payment terms and confirmed that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit conditions are agreed with suppliers in advance and the Group pays information as defined by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 its creditors in accordance with those terms.
Payment terms vary of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and each of the Directors according to the type of product and territory in which the suppliers has taken all the steps he she ought to have taken as a Director to operate.
Tesco PLC is a holding company and therefore has no trade make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and creditors on its Balance Sheet.
to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Compliance with the Groceries Supply Chain Practices Market This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Investigation Order 2009 and the Groceries Supply Code of with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Practice Code The Code places obligations on grocery retailers By order of the Board with a turnover greater than 1 billion to maintain a Code compliance programme, which includes training staff and providing information Jonathan Lloyd Company Secretary to the Office of Fair Trading.
In addition, the Code sets out a number 1 May 2013 of provisions which relate to different aspects of the relationship between a retailer and supplier.
We are committed to treating our suppliers fairly and work in collaboration with them wherever possible.
It is in our nature to treat compliance with the Code very seriously.
We have in place a Code Compliance Officer CCO supported by a compliance team including a dedicated Code auditor.
We have an audit plan and our approach enables us to identify any gaps in our processes so they can be quickly fixed.
We also have in place an ongoing compliance training programme for our buying teams, and a comprehensive training course is provided for relevant new starters.
We identified some non-compliance with the Code this year relating to the training of some new starters within the period mandated by the Code.
We responded immediately by ensuring that all relevant personnel were trained by year end and further strengthened internal processes to ensure that all starters are trained within Code timelines.
Annual refresher training is provided via a bespoke e-learning programme and our training processes in this regard were fully Code-compliant.
All alleged breaches of the Code raised by suppliers this year have been dealt with internally.
We have had one instance of a supplier initiating the Dispute Resolution Procedure set out in the Code.
This dispute was resolved quickly.
The CCO regularly reports to the Audit Committee, which considers that it retains effective oversight of our compliance with the Code.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 69 Financial statements 70 Statement of Directors This section contains our financial responsibilities 71 Independent auditors report to the statements, as well as our five year members of Tesco PLC 72 Group income statement record, financial calendar and 73 Group statement of comprehensive income glossary of financial KPI definitions.
74 Group balance sheet 75 Group statement of changes in equity 76 Group cash flow statement 76 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt note 77 Notes to the Group financial statements 126 Tesco PLC Parent Company balance sheet 127 N otes to the Parent Company financial statements 135 Independent auditors report to the members of Tesco PLC 136 Five year record IBC Financial calendar IBC Glossary
