OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 77 Notes to the Group financial statements Joint ventures and associates Note 1 Accounting policies The Groups share of the results of joint ventures and associates is General information included in the Group Income Statement using the equity method of Tesco PLC the Company is a public limited company incorporated accounting.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are carried in the anddomiciled in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Group Balance Sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups Registration number 445790.
The address of the registered office is share of the net assets of the entity, less any impairment in value.
The Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, Hertfordshire, EN8 9SL, UK.
carrying values of investments in joint ventures and associates include acquired goodwill.
The financial year represents the 52 weeks ended 23 February 2013 prior financial year 52 weeks ended 25 February 2012.
For the UK, the If the Groups share of losses in a joint venture or associate equals or Republic of Ireland and the US, the results are for the 52 weeks ended exceeds its investment in the joint venture or associate, the Group does 23 February 2013 prior financial year 52 weeks ended 25 February not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do 2012.
For all other operations, the results are for the calendar year so ormade payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
ended 28 February 2013 prior financial year ended 29 February 2012.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with joint ventures and The main activities of the Company and its subsidiaries together, the associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Group are those of retailing and retail banking.
Use of assumptions and estimates Basis of preparation The preparation of the consolidated Group financial statements The consolidated Group financial statements have been prepared in requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated andIFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as endorsed by the European Union, and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated Group financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, generally rounded results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments, share-based payments, customer Critical estimates and assumptions that are applied in the preparation loyalty programmes and pensions that have been measured at fair value.
ofthe consolidated financial statements include: Discontinued operations During the financial year, the Board approved a plan to dispose of its Depreciation and amortisation The Group exercises judgement to determine useful lives and residual operations in the US which is consistent with the Groups long-term strategic priority to drive growth and improve returns.
The exit of the values of intangibles, property, plant and equipment and investment property.
The assets are depreciated down to their residual values over Japan operations successfully completed on 1 January 2013.
In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and their estimated useful lives.
Discontinued Operations, the net results for the year are presented within discontinued operations in the Group Income Statement for Impairment i Impairment of goodwill which the comparatives have been reclassified and the assets and liabilities of the businesses are presented separately in the Group The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating units has been Balance Sheet.
See Note 7 for further details.
determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations Presentation change to cash flow statement require the use of estimates as set out in Note 10.
The Group has reported the investment in and proceeds from the sale ii Impairment of assets of short-term investments on a net basis for the year to reflect the strategic management of such investments.
The previous years gross The Group has determined each store as a separate cash-generating presentation investment cash flow 1,972m and proceeds of 1,205m unit for impairment testing.
Where there are indicators for impairment, have been netted.
the Group performs an impairment test.
Presentation change to reserves Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are based on the higher All other reserves in the Group Balance Sheet and Group Statement ofvalue in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is calculated of Changes in Equity includes several items of reserves including Other from cash flow projections for five years using data from the Groups reserves.
In the previous year, Other reserves was shown separately.
These calculations require the use of estimates asset out in Note 11.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to allperiods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
iii Impairment of loans and advances to customers and banks The Groups loan impairment provisions are established to recognise Basis of consolidation incurred impairment losses in its portfolio of loans classified as loans The consolidated Group financial statements consist of the financial and receivables and carried at amortised cost.
These calculations statements of the ultimate Parent Company Tesco PLC, all entities require the use of estimates as set out in the accounting policy note controlled by the Company its subsidiaries and the Groups share for Financial instruments.
ofitsinterests in joint ventures and associates.
Provisions Subsidiaries Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations, The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated restructuring, pensions, customer redress and claims.
These provisions financial statements from the date that control commences until the are estimates and the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are date that control ceases.
The difference between expectations and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the period when such Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and determination is made.
expenses arising from intragroup transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
The Group has provisions for potential customer redress.
In 2010 11, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA previously the Financial Services Authority formally issued Policy Statement 10 12 PS 10 12, which introduced new guidance in respect of Payment Protection Insurance 78 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Provision of services Note 1 Accounting policies continued Revenue from the provision of services is recognised when the service PPI customer redress and evidential provisions to the FCA Handbook is provided and the revenue can be measured reliably, based on the with an implementation date of 1 December 2010.
TheGroup continues terms of the contract.
to handle complaints and redress customers in accordance with PS 10 12.
This will include ongoing analysis of historical claims experience Where the Group acts as an agent selling goods or services, only in accordance with the guidance.
the commission income is included within revenue.
The calculation of these provisions involves estimating a number of Financial services variables, principally the level of customer complaints which may be Revenue consists of interest, fees and income from the provision received and the level of any compensation which may be payable to ofinsurance.
The number of cases on which compensation is ultimately payable may also be influenced by the outcome of the analysis of Interest income on financial assets that are classified as loans and historical claims referred to above.
A change in the estimate of any receivables is determined using the effective interest rate method.
of the key variables in this calculation could have the potential to significantly impact the provisions recognised.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees receivable that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums Insurance reserves or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and Until October 2010 all Tesco Bank branded products were underwritten transaction costs.
through the RBS Insurance partner.
From November 2011 all general insurance policies sold under this arrangement had expired.
A final Fees in respect of services credit card interchange fees, late payment termination settlement agreement executed on 26 September 2012 and ATM revenue are recognised as the right to consideration accrues provided a final claims reserve determination and resulted in the full through the provision of the service to the customer.
The arrangements and final agreement of a concluding commission statement.
The are generally contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred consideration received by the Group fully satisfied any and all liabilities as the service is rendered.
of RBS Insurance subsidiaries, affiliates and agents to the Group.
Insurance reserves in relation to motor and insurance products sold The Group generates commission from the sale and service of Motor and Home insurance policies underwritten by Tesco Underwriting by the Group since October 2010 are held predominantly within Tesco Underwriting Limited.
Limited, or in a minority of cases by a third party underwriter.
This is based on commission rates which are independent of the profitability Post-employment benefit obligations of underlying insurance policies.
Similar commission income is also generated from the sale of white label insurance products underwritten The present value of the post-employment benefit obligations depends ona number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using by other third party providers.
The assumptions used in determining the netcost income for pensions include the discount rate.
Any changes in The Group continues to receive insurance commission arising from the sale of insurance policies sold under the Tesco brand through the these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of post-employment benefit obligations.
This commission income is variable and dependent upon the profitability of the underlying insurance policies.
Key assumptions for post-employment benefit obligations are disclosed Clubcard, loyalty and other initiatives in Note 26.
The cost of Clubcard and loyalty initiatives is part of the fair value of the consideration received and is deferred and subsequently recognised over Adoption of amended International Financial Reporting Standards the period that the awards are redeemed.
The deferral is treated as a deduction from revenue.
The Group has adopted the following amended standards as of 26 February 2012.
The fair value of the points awarded is determined with reference to the IFRS 7 amended Financial instruments: disclosures fair value to the customer and considers factors such as redemption via Clubcard deals versus money-off-in-store and redemption rate.
Tesco for Schools & Clubs vouchers are issued by Tesco for redemption The adoption of the above amendments has not had any significant by participating schools clubs and are part of our overall Community impact on the amounts reported in the Group financial statements but Plan.
The cost of the redemption i. e. meeting the obligation attached may impact the disclosure for future transactions and arrangements.
to the vouchers is treated as a cost rather than a deduction from sales.
Revenue Rental income Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration received or receivable Rental income is recognised in the period in which it is earned, for the sale of goods and services in the ordinary course of the Groups in accordance with the terms of the lease.
Finance income Sale of goods Finance income, excluding income arising from financial services, Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership is recognised in the period to which it relates using the effective of the goods have transferred to the buyer and the amount of revenue interest ratemethod.
Finance costs Revenue is recorded net of returns, discounts offers and value added taxes.
Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition or construction of qualifying assets are capitalised.
Qualifying assets are those that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Group Income Statement in finance costs, excluding those arising from financial services, in the period in which they occur.
For Tesco Bank, finance cost on financial liabilities is determined using the effective interest rate method and is recognised in cost of sales.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 79 Impairment of non-financial assets Note 1 Accounting policies continued Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually by assessing the Business combinations and goodwill recoverable amount of each cash-generating unit to which the goodwill The Group accounts for all business combinations by applying the relates.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs purchase method.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed.
When the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss On acquisition, the assets including intangible assets, liabilities and is recognised.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Group contingent liabilities of an acquired entity are measured at their fair Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
Non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion of the fair values of the assets and liabilities recognised.
For all other non-financial assets including intangible assets and property, plant and equipment the Group performs impairment testing Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the where there are indicators of impairment.
If such an indicator exists, consideration transferred over the net fair value of the Groups share the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine of the net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not subsidiary, joint venture or associate and the fair value of the nongenerate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group controlling interest in the acquiree.
If the consideration is less than estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets, liabilities and the asset belongs.
contingent liabilities of the acquired entity i. e. a discount on acquisition, the difference is credited to the Group Income Statement in the period The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating of acquisition.
unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amountof the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its At the acquisition date of a subsidiary, goodwill acquired is recognised as an asset and is allocated to each of the cash-generating units recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
expected to benefit from the business combinations synergies and to the lowest level at which management monitors the goodwill.
Goodwill Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount arising on the acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included within the carrying value of the investment.
of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of the recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount On disposal of a subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the attributable does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had been recognised for the asset or cashamount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss ondisposal.
generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately as a credit to the Group Income Statement.
Intangible assets Investment property Acquired intangible assets Separately acquired intangible assets, such as software, pharmacy Investment property assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
The depreciation licences, customer relationships, contracts and brands are measured initially at cost.
Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are policies for investment property are consistent with those described for recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Intangible assets with owner-occupied property.
finite useful lives are carried at cost and are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, at 2%100% of cost per annum.
Short-term and other investments Short-term and other investments in the Group Balance Sheet comprise Internally-generated intangible assets Research and development receivables, loan receivables and available-for-sale financial assets.
expenditure Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Development expenditure Receivables and loan receivables are recognised at amortised cost.
incurred on an individual project is capitalised only if specific criteria Available-for-sale financial assets are recognised at fair value.
are met including that the asset created will probably generate future economic benefits.
Refer to the financial instruments accounting policy for further detail.
Following the initial recognition of development expenditure, the cost Inventories isamortised over the assets estimated useful life at 10%25% of cost Inventories comprise goods and properties held for resale and properties perannum.
held for, or in the course of, development with a view to sell.
Inventories arevalued at the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell using the Property, plant and equipment weighted average cost basis.
Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment in value.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the Group Balance Sheet consist of cash Property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis to at bank, in hand, demand deposits with banks, loans and advances to its residual value over its anticipated useful economic life.
The following banks, certificate of deposits and other receivables together with shortdepreciation rates are applied for the Group: term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
freehold and leasehold buildings with greater than 40 years unexpired Non-current assets held for sale at 2.5% of cost: Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered through sale rather than leasehold properties with less than 40 years unexpired are depreciated continuing use.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified by equal annual instalments over the unexpired period of the lease: as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair and value less costs to sell.
plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles at rates varying from 9% to 50%.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, when shorter, over All other leases are classified as operating leases.
the term of the relevant lease.
80 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that have been enacted or Note 1 Accounting policies continued substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged The Group as a lessor orcredited in the Group Income Statement, except when it relates to Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recorded as items charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive receivables at the amount of the Groups net investment in the leases.
income, inwhich case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity, or Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect other comprehensive income, respectively.
a constant periodic rate of return on the Groups net investment in the lease.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straightDeferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that line basis over the term of the lease.
taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The Group as a lessee Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the assets corresponding liability is included in the Group Balance Sheet as a tobe recovered.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of the lease obligations so as to achieve Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
thereis a legally enforceable right to set-off current taxation assets Finance charges are charged to the Group Income Statement.
Rentals againstcurrent taxation liabilities and it is the intention to settle these payable under operating leases are charged to the Group Income onanet basis.
Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Foreign currencies Sale and leaseback Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rate on A sale and leaseback transaction is one where the Group sells an asset the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and immediately reacquires the use of the asset by entering into a lease and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated with the buyer.
atthe rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Group Income Statement.
The accounting treatment of the sale and leaseback depends upon the substance of the transaction by applying the lease classification The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries denominated in principles described above and whether or not the sale was made at foreign currencies are translated into Pound Sterling at exchange rates the assets fairvalue.
prevailing at the date of the Group Balance Sheet: profits and losses are translated ataverage exchange rates for the relevant accounting periods.
For sale and finance leasebacks, any profit from the sale is deferred Exchange differences arising are recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and are included in the Groups translation and amortised over the lease term.
For sale and operating leasebacks, generally the assets are sold at fair value, and accordingly the profit or loss reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expensesin the period in which the operation is disposed of.
from the sale is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a Post-employment and similar obligations For defined benefit plans, obligations are measured at discounted present foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity value using the projected unit credit method whilst plan assets are and translated at the closing rate.
The operating and financing costs of such plans are recognised separately in the Group Income Statement: service costs Financial instruments are spread systematically over the expected service lives of employees Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Group and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise.
Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Group provisions of the instrument.
Trade receivables Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an Trade receivables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially expense as they fall due.
at fair value, and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
Share-based payments The fair value of employee share option plans is calculated at the grant Investments date using the Black-Scholes model.
The resulting cost is charged to Investments are recognised at trade date.
Investments are classified as the Group Income Statement over the vesting period.
The value of the either held for trading or available-for-sale, and are recognised at fair charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of vesting.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in the other comprehensive Taxation income, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, The tax expense included in the Group Income Statement consists at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other of current and deferred tax.
comprehensive income is included in the Group Income Statement for the period.
Interest calculated using the effective interest rate method Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Dividends on an availablethe year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the for-sale equity instrument are recognised in the Group Income balance sheet date.
Tax expense is recognised in the Group Income Statement when the entitys right to receive payment is established.
Statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income or directly in the Group Loans and advances to customers Statement of Changes in Equity, in which case it is recognised in the Loans and advances to customers are not classified as held for trading Group Statement of Comprehensive Income or directly in the Group nor designated as fair value through profit and loss.
Loans and advances Statement of Changes in Equity, respectively.
are initially recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, these assets are carried at amortised Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of Income from these financial assets is calculated on an effective yield assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts basis and is recognised in the Group Income Statement.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 81 Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
Note 1 Accounting policies continued Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or Impairment of loans and advances to customers losses on remeasurement are immediately recognised in the Group At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying amounts of Income Statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, its loans and advances to determine whether there is any indication that recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document from inception If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging asset orgroup of financial assets classified as loans and advances has instrument.
The Group is also required to document and demonstrate been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the an assessment of the relationship between the hedged item and the difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge will be highly effective and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is performed at each group of assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually significant and collectively for assets Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of more than one that are not individually significant.
In making collective assessments year from the balance sheet date are disclosed as non-current.
of impairment, financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk characteristics.
Future cash flows from these portfolios Fair value hedging are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics.
Historical when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value loss experience is adjusted, on the basis of current observable data, to of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives reflect the effects of current conditions not affecting the period of that aredesignated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the historical experience.
Group Income Statement together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Group Income Statement and thecarrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets Cash flow hedging is reduced by establishing an allowance for impairment losses.
If in a Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when subsequent period the amount of the impairment loss reduces and they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash flows that are the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset recognised, the previously recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the or liability, or a highly probable forecasted transaction.
Once an impairment loss has been recognised on a financial element of any gain or loss from remeasuring the derivative instrument asset or group of financial assets, interest income is recognised on the is recognised directly in the other comprehensive income.
carrying amount using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment.
The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from the other comprehensive income and recognised in the Group Income Statement Loan impairment provisions are established on a portfolio basis taking in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction into account the level of arrears, security, past loss experience, credit affects the Group Income Statement.
The classification of the effective scores and defaults based on portfolio trends.
The most significant portion when recognised in the Group Income Statement is the same factors in establishing these provisions are the expected loss rates.
as the classification of the hedged transaction.
Any element of the The portfolios include credit card receivables and other personal remeasurement of the derivative instrument which does not meet the advances.
The future credit quality of these portfolios is subject to criteria for an effective hedge is recognised immediately in the Group uncertainties that could cause actual credit losses to differ materially Income Statement within finance income or costs.
from reported loan impairment provisions.
These uncertainties include the economic environment, notably interest rates and their effect on Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires customer spending, the unemployment level, payment behaviour and or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge bankruptcy trends.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained in the Group Interest-bearing borrowings Statement of Changes in Equity until the forecasted transaction occurs Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at or the original hedged item affects the Group Income Statement.
If a fair value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial forecasted hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost cumulative gain or loss recognised in the Group Statement of Changes with any difference between proceeds and redemption value being in Equity is reclassified to the Group Income Statement.
recognised in the Group Income Statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Net investment hedging Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment Trade payables hedges when they hedge the Groups net investment in an overseas Trade payables are non interest-bearing and are recognised initially operation.
The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the from remeasuring the derivative instrument is recognised directly in effective interest method.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement.
Gains and losses Equity instruments accumulated in other comprehensive income are included in the Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds Group Income Statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
received, net of direct issue costs.
Treatment of agreements to acquire non-controlling interests Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group has entered into a number of agreements to purchase The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure the remaining shares of subsidiaries with non-controlling interests.
toforeign exchange, interest rate and commodity risks arising from operating, financing and investing activities.
The Group does not hold The net present value of the expected future payments are shown as a orissue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes, however, financial liability.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is ifderivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting they are accounted reassessed with any changes recognised in the Group Income Statement for assuch.
within finance income or costs.
82 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements IFRS 13 Fair value measurement is effective from periods Note 1 Accounting policies continued commencing on or after 1 January 2013.
It aims to improve Provisions consistency and reduce complexity by providing precise definition Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected of fair value and single sourceof fair value measurement and to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects disclosure requirements for useacross IFRSs.
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks IAS 27 Amended Separate financial statements is effective from specific to the obligation.
The increase in the provision due to passage periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
It includes the of time is recognised as interest expense.
provisions on separate financial statements that are left after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10.
Provisions for onerous leases are recognised when the Group believes that the unavoidable costs of meeting the lease obligations exceed the IAS 28 Amended Associates and joint ventures is effective from economic benefits expected to be received under the lease.
Provisions periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
It includes the for dilapidation costs are recognised on a lease by lease basis.
requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11.
This requirement will not Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations affect the Group because equity accounting is currently adopted Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as assets held for under the existing requirements of IAS 31. sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through IFRS 7 Amended Financial instruments: Disclosures and IAS 32 a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are Amended Financial instruments: Presentation are effective from stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
The IAS 32 amendment clarifies some of the requirements for offsetting financial assets Standards issued but not yet effective and financial liabilities on the Group Balance Sheet while As of the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the IFRS 7 amendment will require more extensive disclosures the following standards were in issue but not yet effective.
than are required under IFRS.
The Group has not applied these standards in the preparation of the financial statements: Annual Improvements 2011 is effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013.
It addresses six issues in the 20092011 IAS 1 Amended Financial statement presentation regarding reporting cycle.
It includes changes to IAS 1 Financial statement presentation, IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment, IAS 32 other comprehensive income Presentation of financial statements is effective from periods commencing on or after 1 July 2012.
The Financial instruments: presentation and IAS 34 Interim financial reporting.
main change from this amendment is to require entities to group items presented in other comprehensive income OCI on the The impact on the Groups financial statements of the future adoption basis of whether they are potentially reclassifiable to the Group Income Statement subsequently reclassification adjustments.
The of these standards is still under review.
amendments do not address which items are presented in OCI.
Use of non-GAAP profit measure underlying profit before tax IAS 19 Amended Employee benefits is effective from periods The Directors believe that underlying profit before tax and underlying commencing on or after 1 January 2013.
It eliminates the corridor diluted earnings per share measures provide additional useful approach and requires immediate recognition of all actuarial gains information for shareholders on underlying trends and performance.
and losses in other comprehensive income, immediate recognition These measures are used for performance analysis.
Underlying profit of all past service costs and the replacement of interest cost and is not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is with other companies adjusted profit measures.
It is not intended calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit to be a substitute for, or superior to IFRS measurements of profit.
If this standard had been applied to the year ended 23 February 2013, it is estimated that interest income would have The adjustments made to reported profit before tax are: been reduced by approximately 125m.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments is effective from periods commencing IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value on or after 1 January 2015.
It is the first standard issued as part of remeasurements.
Under IAS 32 and IAS 39, the Group applies hedge a wider project to replace IAS 39.
It retains but simplifies the mixed accounting to its various hedge relationships when allowed under measurement model and establishes two primary measurement IAS 39 and when practical to do so.
Sometimes the Group is unable categories for financial assets: i amortised cost: and ii fair value.
to apply hedge accounting to the arrangements but continues to The basis of classification depends on the entitys business model enter into these arrangements as they provide certainty or active and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
management of the exchange rates and interest rates applicable to the Group.
The Group believes these arrangements remain effective IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements is effective from periods and economically and commercially viable hedges despite the inability commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
It builds on existing to apply hedge accounting.
Where hedge accounting is not applied principles by identifying the concept of control as the determining to certain hedging arrangements, the reported results reflect the factor in whether an entity should be included within the consolidated movement in fair value of related derivatives due to changes in foreign financial statements of the parent company.
It also provides additional exchange and interest rates.
In addition, at each year end, any gain guidance to assist in the determination of control where this is difficult or loss accruing on open contracts is recognised in the Group Income to assess.
Statement for the financial year, regardless of the expected outcome IFRS 11 Joint arrangements is effective from periods commencing of the hedging contract on termination.
This may mean that the onor after 1 January 2014.
It is a more realistic reflection of joint Group Income Statement charge is highly volatile, whilst the resulting arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligations of the cash flows may not be as volatile.
The underlying profit measure arrangement rather than its legal form.
There are now only two removes this volatility to help better identify underlying performance typesofjoint arrangement: joint operations: and joint ventures.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities is effective from periods commencing on or after 1 January 2014.
It includes the disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 83 Note 1 Accounting policies continued IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions.
Under IAS 19, the cost of providing pension benefits in the future is discounted to a present value at the corporate bond yield rates applicable on the last day of the previous financial year.
Corporate bond yield rates vary over time which in turn creates volatility in the Group Income Statement and Group Balance Sheet.
IAS 19 also increases the charge for young pension schemes, such as the Groups, by requiring the use of rates which do not take into account the future expected returns on the assets held in the pension scheme which will fund pension liabilities as they fall due.
The sum of these two effects can make the IAS 19 charge disproportionately higher and more volatile than the cash contributions the Group is required to make in order to fund all future liabilities.
Therefore, within underlying profit the Group has included the normal cash contributions for pensions but excluded the volatile element of IAS 19 to represent what the Group believes to be a fairer measure of the cost of providing post-employment benefits.
IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods.
The amount charged to the Group Income Statement in respect of operating lease costs and incentives is expected to increase significantly as the Group expands its international business.
The leases have been structured in a way to increase annual lease costs as the businesses expand.
IAS 17 requires the total expected cost of a lease to be recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, irrespective of the actual timing of the cost.
This adjustment also impacts the Groups operating profit and rental income within the share of post-tax profits ofjoint ventures and associates.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions.
Under IFRS 3 intangible assets are separately identified and fair valued.
The intangible assets are required to be amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives and as such is a non-cash charge that does not reflect the underlying performance of the business acquired.
Similarly, the standard requires all acquisition costs to be expensed in the Group Income Statement.
Due to their nature, these costs have been excluded from underlying profit as they do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards.
The interpretation requires the fair value of customer loyalty awards to be measured as a separate component of a sales transaction.
The underlying profit measure removes this fair value allocation to present underlying business performance, and to reflect the performance of the operating segments as measured by management.
Restructuring and other one-off costs.
These relate to certain costs associated with the Groups restructuring activities and certain one-off costs including costs relating to fair valuing the assets of a disposal group.
These have been excluded from underlying profit as they do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
84 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 2 Segmental reporting The Groups reporting segments are determined based on the Groups internal reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
The CODM has been determined to be the Executive Committee as it is primarily responsible for the allocation of resources to segments and the assessment of performance of the segments.
During the year, the Group completed the exit of Japan operations previously reported as part of the Asia segment.
The Group made its decision to sell Fresh and Easy in the US on 12 February 2013 previously reported in the US segment.
Accordingly, these operations have been treated as discontinued as described in more detail in notes 1 and 7.
The segment results do not include any amounts for these discontinued operations.
The segment assets and other segment information sets out continuing operations separately from discontinued operations.
The CODM now considers the principal activities of the Group to be: Retailing and associated activities in: the UK: Asia China, India, Malaysia, South Korea, Thailand: and Europe Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Republic of Ireland, Slovakia, Turkey Retail banking and insurance services through Tesco Bank in the UK.
The CODM uses trading profit, as reviewed at monthly Executive Committee meetings, as the key measure of the segments results as it reflects the segments underlying trading performance for the financial year under evaluation.
Trading profit is a consistent measure within the Group.
Segment trading profit is an adjusted measure of operating profit and measures the performance of each segment before profits losses arising on property-related items, the impact on leases of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods, intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions, and goodwill impairment and restructuring and other one-off costs.
The IAS 19 pension charge is replaced with the normal cash contributions for pensions.
An adjustment is also made for the fair value of customer loyalty awards.
Inter-segment revenue between the operating segments is not material.
The segment results, the reconciliation of the segment measures to the respective statutory items included in the Group Income Statement, the segment assets and other segment information are as follows: Total at Total Tesco constant Foreign at actual Year ended 23 February 2013 UK Asia Europe Bank exchange exchange exchange At constant exchange rates m m m m m m m Continuing operations Sales including VAT excluding IFRIC 13 48,216 12,334 11,609 1,021 73,180 817 72,363 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 43,579 11,498 10,005 1,021 66,103 705 65,398 Effect of IFRIC 13 491 36 48 575 3 572 Revenue 43,088 11,462 9,957 1,021 65,528 702 64,826 Trading profit 2,272 665 353 191 3,481 28 3,453 Trading margin 5.2% 5.8% 3.5% 18.7% 5.3% 5.3% Total Tesco at actual Year ended 23 February 2013 UK Asia Europe Bank exchange At actual exchange rates m m m m m Continuing operations Sales including VAT excluding IFRIC 13 48,216 12,317 10,809 1,021 72,363 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 43,579 11,479 9,319 1,021 65,398 Effect of IFRIC 13 491 36 45 572 Revenue 43,088 11,443 9,274 1,021 64,826 Trading profit 2,272 661 329 191 3,453 Trading margin 5.2% 5.8% 3.5% 18.7% 5.3% Constant exchange rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for the previous financial year.
Actual exchange rates are the average actual periodic exchange rates for that financial year.
Trading margin is based on revenue excluding the accounting impact of IFRIC 13.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 85 Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Total Tesco at actual Year ended 25 February 2012 UK Asia Europe Bank exchange At actual exchange rates m m m m m Continuing operations Sales including VAT excluding IFRIC 13 47,360 11,627 11,371 1,044 71,402 Revenue excluding IFRIC 13 42,803 10,828 9,866 1,044 64,541 Effect of IFRIC 13 550 35 40 625 Revenue 42,253 10,793 9,826 1,044 63,916 Trading profit 2,478 737 529 225 3,969 Trading margin 5.8% 6.8% 5.4% 21.6% 6.1% Reconciliation of trading profit to profit before tax 2013 2012 m m Trading profit 3,453 3,969 Adjustments: Profits losses arising on property-related items: Included in underlying profit 370 397 Excluded from underlying profit 709 IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions 4 35 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods 36 42 IFRS 3 Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions 19 22 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards 28 17 Other restructuring and one-off costs Other property charges 186 Impairment of goodwill 495 Provisions for customer redress 115 57 Other restructuring and one-off items 51 11 Operating profit 2,188 4,182 Share of post-tax profits from joint ventures and associates 54 91 Finance income 177 176 Finance costs 459 411 Profit before tax 1,960 4,038 Taxation 574 874 Profit for the year from continuing operations 1,386 3,164 Segment assets Total Tesco Other continuing Discontinued UK Asia Europe Bank unallocated operations operations Total At 23 February 2013 m m m m m m m m Total segment non-current assets 14,532 9,298 6,471 4,709 2,023 37,033 37,033 Total segment non-current assets includes: Investments in joint ventures and associates 104 294 1 95 494 494 Total Tesco Other continuing Discontinued UK Asia Europe Bank unallocated operations operations Total At 25 February 2012 m m m m m m m m Total segment non-current assets 14,995 8,471 6,835 4,799 1,749 36,849 1,069 37,918 Total segment non-current assets includes: Investments in joint ventures and associates 134 217 72 423 423 US is included in discontinued operations for comparison purposes.
86 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 2 Segmental reporting continued Other segment information Total Tesco continuing Discontinued UK Asia Europe Bank operations operations Total Year ended 23 February 2013 m m m m m m m Capital expenditure including acquisitions through business combinations : Property, plant and equipment 1,207 925 434 13 2,579 60 2,639 Investment property 40 3 43 43 Goodwill and other intangible assets 207 29 39 97 372 372 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 630 334 288 16 1,268 54 1,322 Investment property 21 15 36 36 Amortisation of intangible assets 131 18 22 61 232 232 Goodwill impairment losses - 495 495 495 Impairment losses 654 88 92 834 16 850 Reversal of prior year impairment losses 1 3 2 6 6 Total Tesco continuing Discontinued UK Asia Europe Bank operations operations Total Year ended 25 February 2012 m m m m m m m Capital expenditure including acquisitions through business combinations : Property, plant and equipment 1,495 1,140 663 22 3,320 147 3,467 Investment property 8 102 110 110 Goodwill and other intangible assets 201 29 68 143 441 441 Depreciation: Property, plant and equipment 617 306 277 16 1,216 49 1,265 Investment property 15 24 39 39 Amortisation of intangible assets 113 12 22 44 191 3 194 Impairment losses 27 5 3 35 86 121 Reversal of prior year impairment losses 27 1 8 36 36 US is included in discontinued operations for comparison purposes.
Note 3 Income and expenses 2013 2012 Continuing operations m m Profit before tax is stated after charging crediting the following: Rental income, of which 493m 2012: 499m relates to investment properties 620 604 Direct operating expenses arising on rental earning investment properties 165 157 Costs of inventories recognised as an expense 48,671 48,422 Stock losses 1,193 1,118 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment charged 2,364 1,445 Impairment of goodwill 495 Operating lease expense, of which 127m 2012: 133m relates to hire of plant and machinery 1,400 1,206 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 87 Note 3 Income and expenses continued During the financial year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditor,  LLP, and network firms: 2013 2012 m m Audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Company and Group financial statements 0.8 0.7 The audit of the accounts of the Companys subsidiaries 3.8 3.9 4.6 4.6 Non-audit services Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Taxation compliance services 0.1 0.2 Taxation advisory services 0.4 0.4 All other non-audit services 2.4 1.9 Total auditor remuneration 7.5 7.1 In addition to the amounts shown above, the auditors received fees of 0.1m 2012: 0.1m for the audit of the main Group pension scheme.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 34 and includes how objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by  LLP.
Note 4 Employment costs, including Directors remuneration 2013 2012 Continuing operations m m Wages and salaries 5,980 5,594 Social security costs 480 459 Post-employment defined benefits Note 26 482 492 Post-employment defined contributions Note 26 19 20 Share-based payments expense Note 25 89 151 7,050 6,716 The average number of employees by operating segment during the financial year was: Average number Average number of of employees full-time equivalents 2013 2012 2013 2012 UK 313,885 300,373 213,304 205,852 Asia 125,797 117,015 115,499 108,149 Europe 94,712 94,409 84,469 85,071 Tesco Bank 3,390 2,818 3,169 2,719 Total 537,784 514,615 416,441 401,791 88 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 5 Finance income and costs 2013 2012 Continuing operations m m Finance income Bank interest receivable and similar income on cash and cash equivalents 125 114 Net pension finance income Note 26 52 18 IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 44 Total finance income 177 176 Finance costs Interest payable on short-term bank loans and overdrafts repayable within five years 88 57 Finance charges payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 10 10 GBP MTN 219 226 EUR MTN 157 180 USD MTN 88 67 Other MTNs 6 11 Capitalised Interest Note 11 123 140 IAS 32 & IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 14 Total finance costs 459 411 GBP MTNs Interest payable on the 4% RPI GBP MTN 2016 includes 8m 2012: 13m of Retail Price Index RPI related amortisation.
Interest payable on the 3.322% LPI GBP MTN 2025 includes 9m 2012: 13m of RPI related amortisation.
Interest payable on the 1.982% RPI GBP MTN 2036 includes 7m 2012: 11m of RPI related amortisation.
Note 6 Taxation Recognised in the Group Income Statement 2013 2012 Continuing operations m m Current tax expense UK corporation tax 507 579 Foreign tax 279 195 Adjustments in respect of prior years 99 42 687 732 Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences 6 226 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 12 Change in tax rate 102 72 113 142 Total income tax expense 574 874 The Finance Act 2012 included legislation to reduce the main rate of corporation tax from 26% to 24% from 1 April 2012 and to 23% from 1 April 2013.
The reduction from 24% to 23% was substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and has therefore been reflected in these Group financial statements.
In addition to the changes in the rates of corporation tax disclosed above, it was announced in the December 2012 Budget Statement that the rate would be reduced from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014 and in the March 2013 Budget Statement it was announced that the rate would be further reduced to 20% from 1 April 2015.
These further rate reductions had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are therefore not reflected in these Group financial statements.
The proposed reductions to the main rate of corporation tax of 2% to 21% by 1 April 2014 and a further 1% to 20% by 1 April 2015 are expected to be enacted in 2013.
The overall effect of these changes, if applied to the deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date, would be to reduce the deferred tax liability by 96m 162m increase in profit and 66m decrease in other comprehensive income.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 89 Note 6 Taxation continued Reconciliation of effective tax charge 2013 2012 m m Profit before tax 1,960 4,038 Tax charge at 24.2% 2012: 26.2% 474 1,058 Effect of: Non-deductible expenses 357 1 Differences in overseas taxation rates 38 43 Adjustments in respect of prior years 104 54 Share of profits of joint ventures and associates 13 14 Change in tax rate 102 72 Total income tax charge for the year 574 874 Effective tax rate 29.3% 21.6% Tax on items credited directly to the Group Statement of Changes in Equity 2013 2012 m m Current tax charge on: Share-based payments 6 1 Deferred tax credit charge on: Share-based payments 1 5 Total tax on items charged to Group Statement of Changes in Equity 5 6 Tax relating to components of the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 2013 2012 m m Current tax credit charge on: Pensions 43 Foreign exchange movements 27 6 Fair value of movement on available-for-sale investments 6 2 Deferred tax credit charge on: Pensions 85 94 Fair value movements on cash flow hedges 3 25 Total tax on items credited to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 104 73 Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior financial years: Other PropertyRetirement Short-term pre post related benefit Share-based timing Financial tax temporary items obligation payments differences Tax losses Instruments differences Total m m m m m m m m At 26 February 2011 1,592 362 47 94 32 4 7 1,046 Charge credit to the Group Income Statement 93 9 31 33 3 1 146 Charge to Group Statement of Changes in Equity 5 5 Credit charge to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 94 25 69 Discontinued operations 14 14 Business combinations 1 3 1 1 4 Foreign exchange and other movements 3 2 2 1 At 25 February 2012 1,689 465 11 64 24 22 10 1,137 Credit charge to the Group Income Statement 87 12 9 14 13 1 1 113 Credit to Group Statement of Changes in Equity 1 1 Credit charge to Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 85 3 82 Discontinued operations 3 3 Business combinations 1 1 2 Foreign exchange and other movements 20 1 4 2 1 12 At 23 February 2013 1,622 539 21 83 40 24 7 956 Property-related items include deferred tax liability on rolled over gains of 340m 2012: 361m and deferred tax assets on capital losses of 71m 2012: 71m.
The remaining balance relates to accelerated tax depreciation.
The deferred tax charge for foreign exchange and other movements of 12m 2012: 1m credit relating to the retranslation of deferred tax balances at the balance sheet date is included within the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income under the heading currency translation differences.
90 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 6 Taxation continued Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset and analysed as follows: 2013 2012 m m Deferred tax assets 58 23 Deferred tax liabilities 1,006 1,160 Deferred tax liabilities relating to disposal group 8 956 1,137 No deferred tax liability is recognised on temporary differences of 3.6bn 2012: 3.4bn relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures as the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The deferred tax on unremitted earnings at 23 February 2013 is estimated to be 159m 2012: 161m which relates to taxes payable on repatriation and dividend withholding taxes levied by overseas tax jurisdictions.
UK tax legislation relating to company distributions provides for exemption from tax for most repatriated profits, subject to certain exceptions.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets in relation to continuing operations have not been recognised in respect of the following items because it is not probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits : 2013 2012 m m Deductible temporary differences 11 29 Tax losses 170 141 181 170 As at 23 February 2013, the Group has unused trading tax losses from continuing operations of 858m 2012: 666m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of 169m 2012: 110m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised inrespect of the remaining 689m 2012: 556m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses of 544m that will expire in 2017 2012: 479m in 2016 and 37m that will expire between 2018 and 2033 2012: 21m between 2017 and 2032.
Other losses will be carried forward indefinitely.
Note 7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets classified as held for sale 2013 2012 m m Assets of disposal groups 307 65 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 324 445 Total assets of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale 631 510 Total liabilities of the disposal group 282 69 Total net assets classified as held for sale 349 441 The year ending 23 February 2013 represents the US, while the year ending 25 February 2012 represents Japan.
The non-current assets held for sale consist mainly of properties in the UK and China due to be sold within one year.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 91 Note 7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets classified as held for sale continued Discontinued operations The decision to sell the Groups operations in the US was taken in February 2013.
An active programme to locate a buyer has been initiated and the sale is expected to be completed by February 2014.
The exit of the Japan operations was successfully completed on 1 January 2013.
The tables below show the results of the discontinued operations in relation to the US and Japan which are included in the Group Income Statement, Group Balance Sheet and Group Cash Flow Statement respectively.
Including operating lease expense of 60m 2012: 68m.
US Japan Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Non-GAAP measure: underlying loss before tax Loss before tax on discontinued operations 1,210 203 51 128 1,261 331 Adjustments for: Restructuring and other one-off costs Impairment of PPE and onerous lease provisions 812 9 57 812 66 Impairment of goodwill 80 80 Other restructuring and one-off costs 113 10 5 43 108 53 1,005 19 5 100 1,000 119 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods 5 7 5 7 Loss on disposal of Japan 35 35 Underlying loss before tax on discontinued operations 200 177 21 28 221 205 The results of Japan are for the 44 weeks ended 1 January 2013, when there was an exit from the operations.
92 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 7 Discontinued operations and non-current assets classified as held for sale continued Balance sheet As the Groups operations in Japan were disposed of during the year, assets and liabilities of the disposal group at 23 February 2013 comprise only those of the US.
Total US 2013 m Assets of the disposal group Property, plant and equipment 241 Inventories 32 Trade and other receivables 15 Cash and cash equivalents 19 Total assets of the disposal group 307 Liabilities of the disposal group Trade and other payables 192 Borrowings 7 Other current liabilities 83 Total liabilities of the disposal group 282 Total net assets of the disposal group 25 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases associated with operations in the US amount to 684m.
At 25 February 2012, the Groups US operations had not yet been classified as held for sale.
Assets and liabilities of the disposal group at this date comprise only those of Japan.
Total Japan 2012 m Assets of the disposal group Inventories 16 Trade and other receivables 43 Cash and cash equivalents 6 Total assets of the disposal group 65 Liabilities of the disposal group Trade and other payables 68 Borrowings 1 Total liabilities of the disposal group 69 Total net liabilities of the disposal group 4 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases associated with operations in Japan at 25 February 2012 amounted to 113m.
Cash flow statement US Japan Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Net cash flows from operating activities 145 116 2 53 143 169 Net cash flows from investing activities 123 95 48 6 75 101 Net cash flows from financing activities 29 17 41 46 70 63 Net cash flows from discontinued operations 7 4 5 1 2 5 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 93 Note 8 Dividends 2013 2012 pence share m pence share m Amounts recognised as distributions to owners in the financial year: Prior financial year final dividend 10.13 813 10.09 811 Current financial year interim dividend 4.63 371 4.63 369 Dividends paid to equity owners in the financial year 14.76 1,184 14.72 1,180 Current financial year proposed final dividend 10.13 815 10.13 815 The proposed final dividend was approved by the Board of Directors on 16 April 2013 and is subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The proposed dividend has not been included as a liability as at 23 February 2013, in accordance with IAS 10 Events After the Balance Sheet Date.
It will be paid on 5 July 2013 to shareholders who are on the Register of members at close of business on 26 April 2013.
Note 9 Earnings per share and diluted earnings per share Basic earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year.
Diluted earnings per share amounts are calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year adjusted for the effects of potentially dilutive options.
The dilutive effect is calculated on the full exercise of all potentially dilutive ordinary share options granted by the Group, including performance-based options which the Group considers to have been earned.
2013 2012 Potentially Potentially dilutive dilutive Basic share options Diluted Basic share options Diluted Profit loss m Continuing operations 1,390 1,390 3,156 3,156 Discontinued operations 1,266 1,266 350 350 Weighted average number of shares millions 8,033 4 8,037 8,021 24 8,045 Earnings per share pence Continuing operations 17.30 17.30 39.35 0.12 39.23 Discontinued operations 15.76 15.76 4.37 0.02 4.35 Total 1.54 1.54 34.98 0.10 34.88 There have been no transactions involving ordinary shares between the reporting date and the date of approval of these financial statements which would significantly change the earnings per share calculations shown above.
Reconciliation of non-GAAP underlying diluted earnings per share 2013 2012 m pence share m pence share Profit from continuing operations Diluted 1,390 17.30 3,156 39.23 Adjustments for: IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 14 0.17 44 0.55 IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions 56 0.70 17 0.21 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods 28 0.35 31 0.39 IFRS 3 Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions 19 0.24 22 0.27 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards 28 0.35 17 0.21 Restructuring and other one-off costs Impairment of PPE and onerous lease provisions 895 11.14 Impairment of goodwill 495 6.16 Provision for customer redress 115 1.43 57 0.71 Other restructuring and one-off items 51 0.63 11 0.14 Tax effect of adjustments at the effective rate of tax 2013: 18.6%, 2012: 21.6% 88 1.10 24 0.30 Underlying earnings from continuing operations 2,891 35.97 3,243 40.31 The effective tax rate of 18.6% 2012: 21.6% excludes certain permanent differences on which tax relief is not available.
94 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets Internally Pharmacy generated and Other development software intangible costs licences assets Goodwill Total m m m m m Cost At 25 February 2012 1,454 726 347 3,548 6,075 Foreign currency translation 1 16 4 84 105 Additions 161 170 13 28 372 Reclassification 40 97 2 139 Disposals 1 5 6 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 80 80 At 23 February 2013 1,655 1,004 366 3,580 6,605 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 25 February 2012 777 340 241 99 1,457 Foreign currency translation 2 9 32 43 Amortisation for the year 121 91 20 232 Impairment losses for the year 16 495 511 At 23 February 2013 916 440 261 626 2,243 Net carrying value At 23 February 2013 739 564 105 2,954 4,362 At 25 February 2012 677 386 106 3,449 4,618 Internally Pharmacy generated and Other development software intangible costs licences assets Goodwill Total m m m m m Cost At 26 February 2011 1,300 563 342 3,600 5,805 Foreign currency translation 2 2 34 34 Additions 261 77 3 100 441 Reclassification 104 120 3 19 Disposals 4 1 5 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 1 32 186 219 At 25 February 2012 1,454 726 347 3,548 6,075 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 26 February 2011 672 288 223 284 1,467 Foreign currency translation 1 1 Amortisation for the year 106 69 19 194 Impairment losses for the year 1 19 20 Disposals 4 1 5 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 1 32 186 219 At 25 February 2012 777 340 241 99 1,457 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 95 Note 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on business combinations is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of cash-generating units according to the level at which management monitor that goodwill.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are based on the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Value in use is calculated from cash flow projections for generally five years using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes in margins.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect the current market assessment of the time value of money and the risks specific to the cash-generating units.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past experience and expectations of future changes in the market.
Giventhe current economic climate, a sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing the recoverable amounts of goodwill.
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate value in use range from 7% to 12% 2012: 6% to 17%.
On a post-tax basis, the discount rates range from 5% to 10% 2012: 5% to 13%.
These discount rates are derived from the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital, as adjusted for the specific risks relating to each geographical region.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term average growth rates of 1% to 5% 2012: 1% to 5%.
In February 2013 and 2012 impairment reviews were performed by comparing the carrying value of goodwill with the recoverable amount of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
The components of goodwill are as follows: 2013 2012 m m China 649 622 Czech Republic 73 Malaysia 86 86 Poland 388 South Korea 514 479 Tesco Bank 802 802 Thailand 173 165 Turkey 46 UK 701 681 US 102 Other 29 5 2,954 3,449 An impairment charge of 495m 2012: nil arose in the year in Poland 373m, Czech Republic 69m and Turkey 53m CGUs all included in the European operating segment following a period of difficult economic and trading conditions.
This loss has been recognised in the cost of sales line in the Group Income Statement.
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate the value in use for Poland, Czech Republic and Turkey CGUs were 9% 2012: 11%, 7% 2012: 9% and 12% 2012: 16% respectively.
96 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 11 Property, plant and equipment Land and a buildings Other Total m m m Cost At 25 February 2012 24,761 10,011 34,772 Foreign currency translation 428 173 601 b Additions 1,525 1,109 2,634 Acquired through business combinations 4 1 5 Reclassification 104 28 132 Classified as held for sale 125 4 129 Disposals 734 116 850 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 938 320 1,258 At 23 February 2013 24,817 10,826 35,643 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 25 February 2012 2,951 6,111 9,062 Foreign currency translation 64 98 162 Charge for the year 448 874 1,322 Impairment losses for the year 831 2 833 Reversal of impairment losses for the year 5 1 6 Reclassification 6 1 5 Classified as held for sale 25 2 27 Disposals 182 98 280 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 115 173 288 At 23 February 2013 3,961 6,812 10,773 c d Net carrying value At 23 February 2013 20,856 4,014 24,870 At 25 February 2012 21,810 3,900 25,710 e Construction in progress included above At 23 February 2013 584 96 680 At 25 February 2012 1,246 44 1,290 a Other assets consist of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings and motor vehicles.
b Includes 123m 2012: 140m in respect of interest capitalised, principally relating to land and building assets.
The capitalisation rate used to determine the amount of finance costs capitalised during the financial year was 5.1% 2012: 5.1%.
Interest capitalised is deducted in determining taxable profit in the financial year in which it is incurred.
c Net carrying value includes: i Capitalised interest at 23 February 2013 of 1,195m 2012: 1,185m.
ii Assets held under finance leases which are analysed below: 2013 2012 Land and Land and a a buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Cost 157 559 149 574 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 45 514 37 495 Net carrying value 112 45 112 79 These assets are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities.
d The net carrying value of land and buildings comprises: 2013 2012 m m Freehold 18,335 19,016 Long leasehold 50 years or more 623 676 Short leasehold less than 50 years 1,898 2,118 Net carrying value 20,856 21,810 e Construction in progress does not include land.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 97 Note 11 Property, plant and equipment continued Land and a buildings Other Total m m m Cost At 26 February 2011 23,479 9,091 32,570 Foreign currency translation 14 11 25 b Additions 2,286 1,172 3,458 Acquisitions through business combinations 3 6 9 Reclassification 63 63 Classified as held for sale 53 11 64 Disposals 843 198 1,041 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 34 38 72 At 25 February 2012 24,761 10,011 34,772 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At 26 February 2011 2,705 5,467 8,172 Foreign currency translation 10 11 21 Charge for the year 429 836 1,265 Impairment losses for the year 74 25 99 Reversal of impairment losses for the year 36 36 Reclassification 5 5 Classified as held for sale 5 7 12 Disposals 177 161 338 Transfer to disposal group classified as held for sale 34 38 72 At 25 February 2012 2,951 6,111 9,062 a b See page 96 for footnotes.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment The Group has determined that for the purposes of impairment testing, each store is a cash-generating unit.
Cash-generating units are tested for impairment if there are indications of impairment at the balance sheet date.
Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units are mainly based on value in use, which is generally calculated from cash flow projections for five to twenty years using data from the Groups latest internal forecasts, the results of which are reviewed by the Board.
The forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years based on estimated long-term growth rates of 1% to 5% 2012: 1% to 5%.
The pre-tax discount rates used to calculate value in use range from 7% to 12% 2012: 6% to 17% depending on the specific conditions in which each store operates.
The impairment losses relate to stores, distribution centres and work-in-progress sites.
The losses mainly arose following a review of work-in-progress sites which focused on ensuring sites achieve an appropriate return on capital and which resulted in some sites no longer being planned for development.
The reversal of previous impairment losses arose principally due to improvements in stores performances over the last year, which increased the net present value of future cash flows.
98 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 12 Investment property 2013 2012 m m Cost At beginning of the year 2,253 2,092 Foreign currency translation 80 9 Additions 43 14 Acquisitions through business combinations 96 Reclassification 7 44 Classified as held for sale 21 23 Disposals 45 7 At end of the year 2,317 2,253 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses At beginning of the year 262 229 Foreign currency translation 10 2 Charge for the year 36 39 Impairment losses for the year 1 2 Reclassification 18 6 Classified as held for sale 6 Disposals 5 At end of the year 316 262 Net carrying value at end of the year 2,001 1,991 The estimated fair value of the Groups investment property is 4.1bn 2012: 4.3bn.
This fair value has been determined by applying an appropriate rental yield to the rentals earned by the investment property.
A valuation has not been performed by an independent valuer.
Note 13 Group entities Principal subsidiaries The Group consolidates its subsidiary undertakings and its principal subsidiaries are: Share of issued Country of incorporation ordinary share capital and principal country Business activity and voting rights of operation Tesco Stores Limited Retail 100% England One Stop Stores Limited Retail 100% England Tesco Ireland Limited Retail 100% Republic of Ireland Tesco-Global Stores Privately Held Co. Limited Retail 100% Hungary Tesco Polska Sp.
Retail 100% Poland Tesco Stores C R a. s. Retail 100% Czech Republic Tesco Stores S R a. s. Retail 100% Slovakia Tesco Kipa Kitle Pazarlama Ticaret five Gida Sanayi A S. Retail 95% Turkey Homeplus Co. Limited Retail 100% South Korea Homeplus Tesco Co. Limited Retail 100% South Korea Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Limited Retail 86% Thailand Tesco Stores Malaysia Sdn Bhn Retail 70% Malaysia Tesco Holdings China Co. Limited Retail 100% Peoples Republic of China Dobbies Garden Centres Limited Retail 100% Scotland Fresh & Easy Neighborhood Market Inc. Retail 100% US Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited trading as Tesco Bank Financial Services 100% Scotland Tesco Distribution Limited Distribution 100% England Tesco Property Holdings Limited Property 100% England Tesco International Sourcing Limited Purchasing 100% Hong Kong dunnhumby Limited Data Analysis 100% England ELH Insurance Limited Self-insurance 100% Guernsey Valiant Insurance Company Limited Self-insurance 100% Republic of Ireland Held by the Parent Company all other principal subsidiaries are held by an intermediate subsidiary.
The Group has 86% of voting rights and 39% of issued ordinary share capital in Ek-Chai Distribution System Co. Limited.
The accounting period ends of the subsidiary undertakings consolidated in these financial statements are on or around 23 February 2013.
A list of the Groups subsidiary undertakings will be annexed to the next Annual Return filed at Companies House.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of subsidiary undertakings to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 99 Note 13 Group entities continued Interests in joint ventures and associates The Group uses the equity method of accounting for its interest in joint ventures and associates.
The following table shows the aggregate movement in the Groups investment in joint ventures and associates: Joint ventures Associates Total m m m At 26 February 2011 224 92 316 Additions 49 49 Disposals 8 8 Foreign currency translation 12 12 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 71 20 91 Other movements in reserves 3 3 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 40 40 At 25 February 2012 308 115 423 Additions 11 87 98 Disposals 1 43 44 Foreign currency translation 10 6 16 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 35 19 54 Other movements in reserves 2 2 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 46 5 51 At 23 February 2013 317 177 494 Significant joint ventures The Groups principal joint ventures are: Share of issued share Country of incorporation capital, loan capital and and principal country Business activity debt securities of operation Shopping Centres Limited Property Investment 50% England BLT Properties Limited Property Investment 50% England The Tesco British Land Property Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Red Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Aqua Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Coral Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Blue Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Atrato Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Property Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Passaic Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Navona Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Sarum Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England The Tesco Dorney Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% England Tesco BL Properties Limited Property Investment 50% England Fushun Splendor Real Estate Development Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Anshan Tesco Real Estate Development Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Qinhuangdo Property Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Xiamen Hete Property Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Fujian Property Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Fujian Industry Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Shenyang Property Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Tesco Nanjing Zhongshan Real Estate Development Co. Limited Property Investment 50% Peoples Republic of China Arena Jersey Management Limited Property Investment 50% Jersey The Tesco Property No.
2 Limited Partnership Property Investment 50% Jersey Aeon Every Co. Ltd Retail 50% Japan Tesco Mobile Limited Telecommunications 50% England Held by the Parent Company all other significant joint ventures are held by an intermediate subsidiary.
The accounting period ends of the joint ventures consolidated in these financial statements range from 31 December 2012 to 28 February 2013.
The accounting period end dates differ from those of the Group for commercial reasons and depend upon the requirements of the joint venture partner as well as those of the Group.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of joint ventures to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006.
100 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 13 Group entities continued The share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and profit of the joint ventures, which are included in the Group financial statements, are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets 3,384 3,173 Current assets 821 868 Current liabilities 2,233 2,180 Non-current liabilities 1,837 1,678 Goodwill 7 7 Net assets 142 190 Cumulative unrecognised losses 175 118 Interests in joint ventures 317 308 Revenue 551 492 Profit for the year 35 71 Associates The Groups principal associates are: Share of issued share capital, Country of incorporation loan capital and debt and principal country Business activity securities of operation Tesco Underwriting Limited Insurance 49.9% England Tesco Lotus Retail Growth Freehold and Leasehold Property Fund Property Investment 25% Thailand Held by an intermediate subsidiary.
In August 2012, the Group disposed of its interest in Greenergy International Limited.
The share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and profit of the Groups associates, which are included in the Group financial statements, are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Assets 568 782 Liabilities 397 673 Goodwill 6 6 Interests in associates 177 115 Revenue 2,370 3,791 Profit for the year 19 20 The accounting period ends of the associates consolidated in these financial statements range from 31 December 2012 to 28 February 2013.
The accounting period end dates of the associates are different from those of the Group as they depend upon the requirements of the parent companies of those entities.
There are no significant restrictions on the ability of associated undertakings to transfer funds to the parent, other than those imposed by the Companies Act 2006.
Note 14 Other investments 2013 2012 m m Loan receivable 259 Available-for-sale financial assets 818 1,267 818 1,526 Available-for-sale financial assets comprise investments in bonds with varied maturities of which 57m 2012: 158m is current.
Note 15 Inventories 2013 2012 m m Goods held for resale 3,643 3,537 Development properties 101 61 3,744 3,598 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 101 Note 16 Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 m m Prepayments and accrued income 417 420 Other receivables 1,636 1,848 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates Note 28 472 389 2,525 2,657 Included within trade and other receivables are the following amounts receivable after more than one year: 2013 2012 m m Prepayments and accrued income 22 36 Other receivables 472 377 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 335 269 829 682 Trade and other receivables are generally non interest-bearing.
Credit terms vary by country and the nature of the debt, ranging from seven to sixty days.
As at 23 February 2013, trade and other receivables of 33m 2012: 30m were past due and impaired.
The amount of the provision was 51m 2012: 50m.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Up to three months past due 6 5 Three to six months past due 3 3 Over six months past due 24 22 33 30 As at 23 February 2013, trade and other receivables of 153m 2012: 415m were past due but not impaired.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Up to three months past due 107 194 Three to six months past due 15 114 Over six months past due 31 107 153 415 No receivables have been renegotiated in the current or prior financial years.
Note 17 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank has loans and advances to customers.
2013 2012 m m Non-current 2,465 1,901 Current 3,094 2,502 5,559 4,403 The maturity of these loans and advances is as follows: 2013 2012 At 23 February 2013 m m Repayable on demand or at short notice 3 1 Within three months 3,019 2,557 Greater than three months but less than one year 175 46 Greater than one year but less than five years 1,803 1,396 After five years 731 588 5,731 4,588 Provision for impairment of loans and advances 172 185 5,559 4,403 At 23 February 2013, 1.2bn of the credit card portfolio had its beneficial interest assigned to a special purpose entity for use as collateral in securitisation transactions 2012: 1.2bn.
Included within the unsecured lending balance is 1.3bn 2012: nil that has been prepositioned with the Bank of England for the purposes of contingent liquidity via the discount window facility and consequently is eligible for future participation in the Funding for Lending Scheme.
102 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 17 Loans and advances to customers continued Provision for impairment of loans and advances m At 26 February 2011 182 Charge for the year 119 Amounts written off 120 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 8 Unwind of discount 4 At 25 February 2012 185 Charge for the year 73 Amounts written off 94 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 11 Unwind of discount 3 At 23 February 2013 172 At 23 February 2013, Tesco Banks non-accrual loans were 185m 2012: 194m.
During the financial year ended 23 February 2013, the gross income not recognised but which would have been recognised under the original terms of non-accrual loans was 12m 2012: 13m.
Note 18 Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 m m Cash at bank and in hand 2,309 1,995 Short-term deposits 63 182 Certificates of deposit 140 35 Loans and advances to banks 93 Cash and cash equivalents 2,512 2,305 Cash of 522m 2012: 1,243m held on money market funds is classed as short-term investments.
Note 19 Trade and other payables 2013 2012 m m Trade payables 6,036 5,971 Other taxation and social security 440 462 Other payables 2,750 2,651 Amounts payable to joint ventures and associates Note 28 33 404 Accruals and deferred income 1,835 1,746 11,094 11,234 Included in other payables are amounts of 262m 2012: 223m which are non-current.
The 1% RPI Tesco Bank Retail Bond is redeemable at par, including indexation for increases in the RPI over the life of the Bond.
The 3.322% Limited Price Inflation LPI MTN is redeemable at par, including indexation for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN.
The maximum indexation of the principal in any one year is 5%, with a minimum of 0%.
The 1.982% RPI MTN is redeemable at par, including indexation for increases in the RPI over the life of the MTN.
Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed facilities available at 23 February 2013, in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met as at that date: 2013 2012 m m Expiring between one and two years 1,600 Expiring in more than two years 1,225 2,825 2,825 2,825 All facilities incur commitment fees at market rates and would provide funding at floating rates.
104 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 21 Financial instruments Derivatives are used to hedge exposure to market risks and those that are held as hedging instruments are formally designated as hedges as defined in IAS 39.
Derivatives may qualify as hedges for accounting purposes and the Groups hedging policies are further described below.
Net finance cost of 19m 2012: Net finance income of 3m resulted from hedge ineffectiveness.
Fair value hedges The Group maintains interest rate and cross currency swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and currency risk on fixed rate debt issued by the Group.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Group Income Statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument and hedged item is recognised in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs.
If the hedge no longer meets the criteria forhedge accounting, the adjustment to the carrying value of the hedged item is amortised to the Group Income Statement under the effective interest rate method.
A gain of 52m on hedging instruments was recognised during the year, offset by a loss of 65m on hedged items 2012: a gain of 263m on hedging instruments was offset by a loss of 260m on hedged items.
Cash flow hedges The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to hedge the cost of future purchases of goods for resale where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing company.
Where these contracts qualify for hedge accounting, mark-to-market gains and losses are deferred in equity.
These hedging instruments are primarily used to hedge purchases in Euros and US Dollars.
The cash flows hedged will occur and will affect the Group Income Statement within one year of the balance sheet date.
The Group also uses index-linked swaps to hedge cash flows on index-linked debt, interest rate swaps to hedge interest cash flows on debt and cross currency swaps to hedge intercompany loan cash flows denominated in foreign currencies.
Net investment hedges The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts, currency denominated borrowings and currency swaps to hedge the exposure of a portion of its non-Sterling denominated assets against changes in value due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
A net finance cost of 6m 2012: nil was recorded resulting from net investment ineffectiveness.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the Group Income Statement on disposal of the overseas operation.
Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting The Groups policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
However, some derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting or are specifically not designated as a hedge where gains and losses on the hedging instrument and the hedged item naturally offset in the Group Income Statement.
These instruments include cross currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency contracts.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the Group Income Statement within finance income or costs.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments have been disclosed in the Group Balance Sheet as follows: 2013 2012 Asset Liability Asset Liability m m m m Current 58 121 41 128 Non-current 1,965 759 1,726 688 2,023 880 1,767 816 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 105 Note 21 Financial instruments continued The fair value and notional amounts of derivatives analysed by hedge type are as follows: 2013 2012 Asset Liability Asset Liability Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional m m m m m m m m Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 125 1,601 59 1,924 96 1,751 68 2,031 Cross currency swaps 890 2,749 34 249 818 2,686 8 269 Cash flow hedges Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 5 60 126 480 132 400 Cross currency swaps 237 642 32 531 233 304 41 988 Index-linked swaps 80 833 30 809 Forward foreign currency contracts 43 1,138 19 697 23 733 21 1,211 Net investment hedges Forward foreign currency contracts 7 969 Cash flow hedges and net investment hedges Cross currency swaps 10 325 1 318 Derivatives not in a formal hedge relationship Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 3 25 1 25 Cross currency swaps 2 49 3 89 3 146 4 56 Index-linked swaps 627 3,604 539 3,589 539 3,149 468 3,149 Forward foreign currency contracts 14 397 58 1,121 22 923 62 1,282 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 Total 2,023 11,073 880 9,005 1,767 10,526 816 10,698 The carrying value and fair value of financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 2013 2012 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value m m m m Assets Cash and cash equivalents 2,512 2,512 2,305 2,305 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 5,559 5,581 4,403 4,440 Short-term investments 522 522 1,243 1,243 Other investments Tesco Bank 818 818 1,526 1,524 Joint venture and associates loan receivables Note 28 459 459 384 384 Other receivables 17 17 10 10 Derivative financial assets: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 130 130 99 99 Cross currency swaps 1,129 1,129 1,054 1,054 Index-linked swaps 707 707 569 569 Forward foreign currency contracts 57 57 45 45 Total financial assets 11,910 11,932 11,638 11,673 Liabilities Short-term borrowings: Amortised cost 535 535 1,806 1,841 Bonds in fair value hedge relationships 225 221 Long-term borrowings: Amortised cost 4,450 4,899 4,575 4,966 Bonds in fair value hedge relationships 5,496 5,114 5,202 5,140 Finance leases Note 34 128 128 166 166 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 6,000 5,997 5,387 5,410 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 15 15 78 78 Derivative and other financial liabilities: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 185 185 201 201 Cross currency swaps 79 79 54 54 Index-linked swaps 539 539 468 468 Forward foreign currency contracts 77 77 90 90 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 3 Total financial liabilities 17,729 17,789 18,030 18,417 Total 5,819 5,857 6,392 6,744 106 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 21 Financial instruments continued The fair values of financial instruments and derivatives have been determined by reference to prices available from the markets on which the instruments are traded, where they are available.
Where market prices are not available, the fair value has been calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The above table excludes other receivables payables, which have fair values equal to their carrying values.
Financial assets and liabilities by category The accounting classifications of each class of financial assets and liabilities as at 23 February 2013 and 25 February 2012 are as follows: Loans and receivables Fair value Availableother financial through for-sale liabilities profit or loss Total At 23 February 2013 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 140 2,372 2,512 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 5,559 5,559 Short-term investments 522 522 Other investments Tesco Bank 818 818 Joint venture and associates loan receivables Note 28 459 459 Other receivables 17 17 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 6,000 6,000 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 15 15 Short-term borrowings 760 760 Long-term borrowings 9,946 9,946 Finance leases Note 34 128 128 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 55 55 Cross currency swaps 1,050 1,050 Index-linked swaps 168 168 Forward foreign currency contracts 20 20 958 7,920 1,143 5,819 Loans and receivables Fair value Availableother financial through for-sale liabilities profit or loss Total At 25 February 2012 m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 35 2,270 2,305 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 4,403 4,403 Short-term investments 1,243 1,243 Other investments Tesco Bank 1,267 259 1,526 Joint venture and associates loan receivables Note 28 384 384 Other receivables 10 10 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 5,387 5,387 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 78 78 Short-term borrowings 1,806 1,806 Long-term borrowings 9,777 9,777 Finance leases Note 34 166 166 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 102 102 Cross currency swaps 1,000 1,000 Index-linked swaps 101 101 Forward foreign currency contracts 45 45 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 3 1,302 8,645 951 6,392 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 107 Note 21 Financial instruments continued Fair value measurement The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 23 February 2013, by level of fair value hierarchy: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 : inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly thatis, derived from prices Level 2 : and inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs Level 3.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 23 February 2013 m m m m Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 808 150 958 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 130 130 Cross currency swaps 1,129 1,129 Index-linked swaps 707 707 Forward foreign currency contracts 57 57 Total assets 808 2,173 2,981 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 185 185 Cross currency swaps 79 79 Index-linked swaps 539 539 Forward foreign currency contracts 77 77 Total liabilities 880 880 Total 808 1,293 2,101 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 25 February 2012 m m m m Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 542 760 1,302 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 99 99 Cross currency swaps 1,054 1,054 Index-linked swaps 569 569 Forward foreign currency contracts 45 45 Total assets 542 2,527 3,069 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps and similar instruments 201 201 Cross currency swaps 54 54 Index-linked swaps 468 468 Forward foreign currency contracts 90 90 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 3 Total liabilities 813 3 816 Total 542 1,714 3 2,253 The following table presents the changes in Level 3 instruments for the year ending 23 February 2013: 2013 2012 m m At beginning of the year 3 106 Gains losses recognised in finance costs in the Group Income Statement 33 Gains losses recognised in the Group Statement of Changes in Equity 3 Purchase of non-controlling interests 3 73 At end of the year 3 During the financial year, 431m 2012: nil of Level 2 assets were transferred to Level 1 due to improved valuation systems, and there were no transfers into or out of Level 3 fair value measurements.
At the start of the year the Group had a liability classified as Level 3 relating to the future purchase of the minority shareholding of its subsidiary blinkbox entertainment limited.
This option was exercised during the year.
108 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 22 Financial risk factors The main financial risks faced by the Group relate to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates, the risk of default by counterparties to financial transactions and the availability of funds to meet business needs.
The management of these risks is set out below.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The Board provides written principles for risk management, as described in the Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 38 to 42.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings.
Debt issued at variable rates as well as cash deposits and short-term investments exposes the Groupto cash flow interest rate risk.
Debt issued at fixed rates exposes the Group to fair value risk.
Our interest rate management policy is explained onpage 42.
The Group has Retail Price Index RPI debt where the principal is indexed to increases in the RPI.
RPI debt is treated as floating rate debt.
The Group also has Limited Price lnflation LPI debt, where the principal is indexed to RPI, with an annual maximum increase of 5% and a minimum of0%.
LPI debt is treated as fixed rate debt.
For interest rate risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors below.
During 2013 and 2012, net debt was managed using derivative instruments to hedge interest rate risk as follows: 2013 2012 Fixed Floating Total Fixed Floating Total m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 140 2,372 2,512 35 2,270 2,305 Loans and advances to customers Tesco Bank 2,739 2,820 5,559 1,956 2,447 4,403 Short-term investments 522 522 1,243 1,243 Other investments 707 111 818 1,335 191 1,526 Joint venture and associate, loan receivables Note 28 459 459 384 384 Other receivables 17 17 10 10 Finance leases Note 34 104 24 128 111 55 166 Bank and other borrowings 9,569 1,137 10,706 10,729 854 11,583 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 2,399 3,601 6,000 1,470 3,917 5,387 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 15 15 78 78 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 3 Derivative effect: Interest rate swaps 1,156 1,156 1,402 1,402 Cross currency swaps 2,436 2,436 2,635 2,635 Index-linked swaps 537 537 522 522 Caps and collars 1 1 Total 7,758 796 6,962 8,355 1,009 7,346 Credit risk Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, customer deposits, financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions.
The Group policy on credit risk is described on page 42.
The counterparty exposure under derivative contracts is 2.0bn 2012: 1.8bn.
The Group considers its maximum credit risk to be 11.9bn 2012: 11.6bn, being the Groups total financial assets.
For credit risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors below.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is managed by short-term and long-term cash flow forecasts.
In addition, the Group has committed facility agreements for 2.8bn 2012: 2.8bn, which mature between 2014 and 2015.
The Group has a European Medium Term Note programme of 15.0bn, of which 6.2bn was in issue at 23 February 2013 2012: 7.4bn, plus a Euro Commercial Paper programme of 2.0bn, of which 0.1bn was in issue at 23 February 2013 2012: nil, and a US Commercial Paper programme of $4.0bn, of which 0.1bn was in issue at 23 February 2013 2012: nil.
On 12 September 2012 the Group repaid 1.5bn of long-term debt.
For liquidity risk relating to Tesco Bank, refer to the separate section on Tesco Bank financial risk factors below.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 109 Note 22 Financial risk factors continued The following is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual cash flows payable under financial liabilities and derivatives.
The potential cash outflow of 17.4bn is considered acceptable as it is offset by financial assets and trade receivables of 14.4bn 2012: 18.6bn offset by financial assets and trade receivables of 14.3bn.
The undiscounted cash flows will differ from both the carrying values and fair value.
Floating rate interest is estimated using the prevailing rate at the balance sheet date.
Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated using spot rates at the balance sheet date.
For index-linked liabilities, inflation is estimated at 3% for the life of the liability.
Due Due Due Due Due between between between between Due within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 beyond 1 year years years years years 5 years At 23 February 2013 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank and other borrowings 711 1,081 553 1,550 575 5,805 Interest payments on borrowings 451 441 402 375 301 3,511 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 5,323 577 100 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 9 6 Finance leases 13 13 13 13 13 212 Trade and other payables 10,865 93 31 19 12 74 Derivative and other financial liabilities Net settled derivative contracts receipts 63 62 27 71 20 608 Net settled derivative contracts payments 106 78 71 50 47 362 Gross settled derivative contracts receipts 3,610 1,588 157 1,057 1,369 1,008 Gross settled derivative contracts payments 3,564 1,485 57 916 1,000 531 Total 17,369 2,124 1,043 1,795 559 8,879 Due Due Due Due Due between between between between Due within 1 and 2 2 and 3 3 and 4 4 and 5 beyond 1 year years years years years 5 years At 25 February 2012 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank and other borrowings 1,734 867 1,005 5 1,524 6,124 Interest payments on borrowings 557 431 395 359 359 3,716 Customer deposits Tesco Bank 5,087 249 51 Deposits by banks Tesco Bank 78 Finance leases 39 17 15 13 13 222 Trade and other payables 11,011 105 22 35 9 52 Derivative and other financial liabilities Net settled derivative contracts receipts 67 54 56 21 60 470 Net settled derivative contracts payments 122 80 69 61 43 342 Gross settled derivative contracts receipts 3,905 735 1,416 166 1,047 3,757 Gross settled derivative contracts payments 3,900 652 1,328 77 935 2,685 Future purchases of non-controlling interests 3 Total 18,559 1,612 1,413 363 1,776 8,914 Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk principally via: Transactional exposure arises from the cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing company.
Transactional exposures that could significantly impact the Group Income Statement are hedged.
These exposures are hedged via forward foreign currency contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
The notional and fair value of these contracts is shown in Note 21.
Net investment exposure arises from changes in the value of net investments denominated in currencies other than Pounds Sterling.
The Group hedges a part of its investments in its international subsidiaries via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies which are formally designated as net investment hedges.
Loans to non-UK subsidiaries are hedged via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies.
These are not formally designated as hedges as gains and losses on hedges and hedged loans will naturally offset.
110 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 22 Financial risk factors continued The impact on Group financial statements from foreign currency volatility is shown in the sensitivity analysis below: Sensitivity analysis The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying value of pension and other post-employment obligations and on the retranslation of overseas net assets as required by IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
However, it does include the foreign exchange sensitivity resulting from all local entity non-functional currency financial instruments.
The sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and derivatives portfolio, and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant and on the basis of the hedge designations in place at 23February 2013.
It should be noted that the sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on income and equity due to all financial instruments held at the balance sheet date.
It does not reflect any change in sales or costs that may result from changing interest or exchange rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: the sensitivity of interest payable to movements in interest rates is calculated on net floating rate exposures on debt, deposits and derivative instruments with no sensitivity assumed for RPI-linked debt which has been swapped to fixed rates: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges from movements in interest rates or foreign exchange rates have an immaterial effect on the Group Income Statement and equity due to compensating adjustments in the carrying value of debt: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges from movements in foreign exchange rates are recorded directly in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging instruments only affect the Group Income Statement: all other changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments are fully effective with no impact on the Group Income Statement: and the floating leg of any swap or any floating rate debt is treated as not having any interest rate already set, therefore a change in interest rates affects a full 12-month period for the interest payable portion of the sensitivity calculations.
Using the above assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the Group Income Statement and equity that would result from changes in UK interest rates and in exchange rates: 2013 2012 Income Equity Income Equity gain loss gain loss gain loss gain loss m m m m 1% increase in GBP interest rates 2012: 1% 8 3 5% appreciation of the Euro 2012: 5% 12 43 1 40 5% appreciation of the South Korean Won 2012: 5% 56 59 5% appreciation of the US Dollar 2012: 5% 13 52 10 50 5% appreciation of the Czech Koruna 2012: 5% 1 21 1 17 A decrease in interest rates and a depreciation of foreign currencies would have the opposite effect to the impact in the table above.
The impact on the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income from changing exchange rates results from the revaluation of financial liabilities used as net investment hedges.
The impact on the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income will largely be offset by the revaluation in equity of the hedged assets.
Capital risk The Groups objectives when managing capital defined as net debt plus equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, while maintaining a strong credit rating and headroom whilst optimising return to shareholders through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes to economic conditions and the strategic objectives of the Group.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, buy back shares and cancel them, or issue new shares.
During 2013, the Group purchased and cancelled nil of ordinary shares 2012: 290m.
The policy for debt is to ensure a smooth debt maturity profile with the objective of ensuring continuity of funding.
This policy continued during the financial year with bonds redeemed of 1,285m 2012: 521m and no new bonds were issued 2012: 1,358m except those issued by Tesco Bank.
The Group borrows centrally and locally, using a variety of capital market instruments and borrowing facilities to meet the Groups business requirements of each local business.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 111 Note 22 Financial risk factors continued Tesco Bank Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises where assets and liabilities in Tesco Banks banking activities have different repricing dates.
Tesco Bank policy seeks to minimise the sensitivity of net interest income to changes in interest rates.
Potential exposures to interest rate movements in the medium to long term are measured and controlled through position and sensitivity limits.
Short-term exposures are measured and controlled in terms of net interest income sensitivity over 12months to a 1% parallel movement in interest rates.
Tesco Bank also use Economic Value Equity EVE for risk management purposes with focus on the value of Tesco Bank in todays interest rate environment and its sensitivity to changes in interest rates.
Interest rate risk is managed using interest rate swaps as the main hedging instrument.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Tesco Bank is unable to meet its payment obligations as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is managed within Tesco Banks banking activities and adheres to the liquidity requirements set by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
Tesco Banks Board has set a defined liquidity risk policy and contingency funding which is prudent and in excess of the minimum requirements as set out by the PRA and by Tesco Bank.
A diversified portfolio of high-quality liquid and marketable assets is maintained.
Cash flow commitments and marketable asset holdings are measured and managed on a daily basis.
Tesco Bank has sufficient liquidity to meet all foreseeable outflow requirements as they fall due and its liquidity risk is further mitigated by its well diversified retail deposit base and a pool of surplus cash resources that are invested in a range of marketable assets.
Credit risk Credit risk is the potential that a bank borrower or counterparty will fail to meet its obligations in accordance with agreed terms.
Credit risk principally arises from the Banks retail lending activities but also from the placement of surplus funds with other banks and money market funds, investments in transferable securities and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives.
In addition, credit risk arises from contractual arrangements with third parties where payments and commissions are due to the Bank for short periods of time.
Retail credit policy is managed through the credit risk policy framework with standards and limits defined at all stages of the customer lifecycle, including new account sanctioning, customer management and collections and recovery activity.
Customer lending decisions are managed principally through the deployment of bespoke credit scorecard models and credit policy rules, which exclude specific areas of lending, and an affordability assessment which determines a customers ability to repay an outstanding credit amount.
Wholesale credit risk is managed using a limit-based framework, with limits determined by counterparty credit worthiness, instrument type and remaining tenor.
A limits framework is also in place for the management of third party credit exposures.
Ineffective management and controls over the emerging asset quality of the Groups lending portfolios could expose the Group to unacceptable levels of bad debt.
The Groups asset quality is reflected through the level of its impairment by lending type.
Asset quality profiles are regularly monitored and reported to the appropriate senior management team and risk committees.
The table below presents an analysis of credit exposure by impairment status across the different exposure classes.
The table predominantly relates to banking assets: the retail instalment lending applies to credit agreements in the insurance business.
Retail Retail Retail Credit quality of loans and advances unsecured mortgage instalment lending lending lending Total As at 23 February 2013 m m m m Past due and defaulted Less than 90 days past due 30 30 90179 days past due 42 42 180 days plus past due 76 76 Past due but not defaulted 029 days past due 41 1 42 3059 days past due 11 11 60119 days past due 9 9 Neither past due nor defaulted Low risk 4,935 258 202 5,395 High risk 126 126 Total 5,270 258 203 5,731 Low risk is defined as an asset with a probability of default of less than 10%.
High risk is defined as an asset with a probability of default of 10% or more.
112 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 22 Financial risk factors continued Retail Retail Retail Credit quality of loans and advances unsecured mortgage instalment lending lending lending Total As at 25 February 2012 m m m m Past due and defaulted Less than 90 days past due 27 27 90179 days past due 45 45 180 days plus past due 81 81 Past due but not defaulted 029 days past due 50 1 51 3059 days past due 14 14 60119 days past due 10 10 Neither past due nor defaulted Low risk 4,202 247 4,449 High risk 159 159 Total 4,588 248 4,836 Low risk is defined as an asset with a probability of default of less than 10%.
Prior year retail instalment lending of 248m was classified as trade and other receivables.
During the year ended 28 February 2013 there was a change to the methodology by which the Group measures credit risk in relation to outstanding loan balances.
The new methodology is considered to provide a more appropriate disclosure for reporting and monitoring purposes.
The Group has prepared a prior year comparator using this new methodology.
The credit risk exposure from off balance sheet items, mainly undrawn credit card facilities and mortgage offers, was 8.5bn 2012: 7.4bn.
Insurance risk Tesco Bank is indirectly exposed to insurance risks through its ownership of 49.9% of Tesco Underwriting Limited TU, an authorised insurance company.
Since late 2010 the majority of new business policies for Home and Motor Insurance products sold by Tesco Bank have been underwritten by TU.
The key insurance risks within TU relate to Underwriting Risk and specifically the potential fora major weather event to generate significant claims on Home insurance or on Motor insurance the cost of settling bodily injury claims.
Exposure tothis risk is actively managed within TU with close monitoring of performance metrics and the use of reinsurance to limit TUs exposure above predetermined limits.
During the year the relationship with RBS Insurance was terminated and the Group has no exposure to insurance risk arising from this historic relationship.
Note 23 Customer deposits and deposits by banks 2013 2012 m m Customer deposits 6,000 5,387 Deposits by banks 15 78 6,015 5,465 Included above is 677m 2012: 300m non-current customer deposits and 6m 2012: nil non-current deposits by banks.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 113 Note 24 Provisions Property Other provisions provisions Total m m m At 26 February 2011 138 39 177 Foreign currency translation 2 2 Amount released in the year 45 45 Amount provided in the year 28 61 89 Amount utilised in the year 4 22 26 Others 2 2 At 25 February 2012 121 78 199 Foreign currency translation 6 6 Amount released in the year 12 12 Amount provided in the year 254 116 370 Amount utilised in the year 11 92 103 At 23 February 2013 358 102 460 The balances are analysed as follows: 2013 2012 m m Current 188 99 Non-current 272 100 460 199 Property provisions comprise obligations for future rents payable net of rents receivable on onerous leases including on vacant property and unprofitable stores, terminal dilapidations and other onerous contracts relating to property.
The majority of these provisions are expected to be utilised over the period to 2020.
The other provisions balance relates mainly to a provision for Tesco Bank customer redress in respect of potential complaints arising from the historic sales of Payment Protection Insurance PPI.
During the year, a full-scale proactive customer contact programme was initiated for customers who were sold PPI over a specific time period.
As a result of this activity and the contact received directly from customers, an increase in the provision was made.
The PPI provision may be used over several years although the timing of utilisation is uncertain.
The balance is classified as current at the year end.
114 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 25 Share-based payments For continuing operations, the Group Income Statement charge for the year recognised in respect of share-based payments is 89m 2012: 151m, which is made up of share option schemes and share bonus payments.
Of this amount, 65m 2012: 124m will be settled in equity and 24m 2012:27m in cash.
Share option schemes The Company had ten share option schemes in operation during the financial year, all of which are equity-settled schemes: i The Savings-related Share Option Scheme 1981 permits the grant to employees of options in respect of ordinary shares linked to a building society bank save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of an amount between 5 and 250 per four-weekly period.
Options are capable of being exercised at the end of the threeor five-year period at a subscription price of not less than 80% of the average of the middle-market quotations of an ordinary share over the three dealing days immediately preceding the offer date.
ii The Irish Savings-related Share Option Scheme 2000 permits the grant to Irish employees of options in respect of ordinary shares linked to a building society bank save-as-you-earn contract for a term of three or five years with contributions from employees of an amount between 12 and 500 per four-weekly period.
iii The Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 1994 was adopted on 17 October 1994.
The exercise of options granted under this scheme will normally be conditional upon the achievement of a specified performance target related to the growth in earnings per share over a three-year period.
Nofurther options will be granted under this scheme and it has been replaced by the Discretionary Share Option Plan 2004.
There were no discounted options granted under this scheme.
iv The Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 was adopted on 7 June 1996.
v The International Executive Share Option Scheme 1994 was adopted on 20 May 1994.
This scheme permits the grant to selected non-UK executives of options to acquire ordinary shares on substantially the same basis as their UK counterparts.
vi The Executive Incentive Plan 2004 was adopted on 5 July 2004.
This scheme permits the grant of options in respect of ordinary shares to selected senior executives.
Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
Full details of this plan can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
vii The Performance Share Plan 2004 was adopted on 5 July 2004 and amended on 29 June 2007.
This scheme permits the grant of options in respect of ordinary shares to selected executives.
Options granted before 29 June 2007 are normally exercisable between four and ten years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
Options granted after 29 June 2007 are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant for nil consideration.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed over a three-year period.
No further options will be granted under this scheme and it has been replaced by the Performance Share Plan 2011. viii The Performance Share Plan 2011 was adopted on 1 July 2011 and amended on 4 July 2011.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed and earnings per share over a three-year period.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 115 Note 25 Share-based payments continued ix The Discretionary Share Option Plan 2004 was adopted on 5 July 2004.
This scheme permits the grant of approved, unapproved and international options in respect of ordinary shares to selected executives.
Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant at a price not less than the middle-market quotation or average middle-market quotations of an ordinary share for the dealing day or three dealing days preceding the date of grant.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of a specified performance target related to the annual percentage growth in earnings per share over a three-year period.
x The Group New Business Incentive Plan 2007 was adopted on 29 June 2007.
Options will normally vest in four tranches: four, five, six and seven years after the date of grant and will be exercisable for up to two years from the vesting dates for nil consideration.
The exercise of options will normally be conditional upon the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed over the seven-year plan.
Share options were exercised on a regular basis throughout the financial year.
The average share price during the financial year ended 23 February 2013 was 328.39p 2012: 385.43p.
116 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 25 Share-based payments continued The fair value of share options is estimated at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The following table gives the assumptions applied to the options granted in the respective periods shown.
No assumption has been made to incorporate the effects of expected early exercise.
2013 2012  Executive Nil cost related Executive Nil cost share option share option option share option share option share option schemes schemes schemes schemes schemes schemes Expected dividend yield % 5.0% 0.0% 4.1% 4.1% 0.0% Expected volatility % 21 28% 27% 23 27% 26% 26% Risk-free interest rate % 0.7 1.0% 1.3% 1.5 1.8% 2.0% 2.6% Expected life of option years 3 or 5 6 3 or 5 6 6 Weighted average fair value of options granted pence 43.45 317.72 69.85 62.91 408.14 Probability of forfeiture % 14 16% 0% 14 16% 10% 0% Share price pence 312.00 317.72 404.00 402.75 408.14 Weighted average exercise price pence 282.00 0.00 364.00 402.75 0.00 Volatility is a measure of the amount by which a price is expected to fluctuate during a period.
The measure of volatility used in the Groups option pricing models is the annualised standard deviation of the continuously compounded rates of return on the share over a period of time.
In estimating the future volatility of the Companys share price, the Board considers the historical volatility of the share price over the most recent period that is generally commensurate with the expected term of the option, taking into account the remaining contractual life of the option.
Share bonus schemes Eligible UK employees are able to participate in Shares in Success, an all-employee profit-sharing scheme which permits the award of shares to employees, usually awarded as a percentage of earnings, up to a statutory maximum of 3,000 per annum.
No award was made under this scheme in the financial year.
Eligible Republic of Ireland employees are able to participate in a Share Bonus Scheme, an all-employee profit-sharing scheme.
Each year, employees receive an award of either cash or shares based on a percentage of their earnings.
Selected executives participate in the Group Bonus Plan, a performance-related bonus scheme.
The amount paid to employees is based on a percentage of salary and is paid partly in cash and partly in shares.
Bonuses are awarded to selected executives who have completed a required service period and depend on the achievement of corporate targets.
Selected senior executives participate in the Management Performance Share Plan.
Awards made under this plan will normally vest three years after the date of the award for nil consideration.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed over a three-year performance period.
No further awards will be granted under this scheme and it has been replaced by the Performance Share Plan 2011.
Selected executives participate in the Performance Share Plan 2011.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed and earnings per share over a three-year performance period.
Senior management in the US business also participate in the US Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007, which was adopted on 29 June 2007.
The awards made under this plan will normally vest in four tranches: four, five, six and seven years after the date of award, for nil consideration.
Vesting will normally be conditional on the achievement of specified performance targets related to the return on capital employed in the US business over the seven-year plan.
The Executive Directors participate in short-term and long-term bonus schemes designed to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Full details of these schemes can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The fair value of shares awarded under these schemes is their market value on the date of award.
Expected dividends are not incorporated into the fair value except for awards under the US Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The number and weighted average fair value WAFV of share bonuses awarded during the financial year were: 2013 2012 Number of WAFV Number of WAFV shares pence shares pence Shares in Success 26,597,598 416.26 Irish Share Bonus Scheme 110,234 301.08 156,313 419.50 Executive Incentive Scheme 4,591,717 301.13 9,482,746 415.89 Performance Share Plan 27,025,617 317.34 21,075,604 389.13 US Long-Term Incentive Plan 178,914 314.91 132,786 405.63 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 117 Note 26 Post-employment benefits Pensions The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements, covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and funded defined contribution schemes.
The most significant of these are the funded defined benefit pension schemes for the Groups employees in the UK, Republic of Ireland and South Korea.
Defined contribution plans The contributions payable for defined contribution schemes of 19m 2012: 20m have been recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Defined benefit plans United Kingdom The principal plan within the Group is the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme, which is a funded defined benefit pension scheme in the UK, the assets of which are held as a segregated fund and administered by trustees.
Towers Watson Limited, an independent actuary, carried out the latest triennial actuarial assessment of the scheme as at 31 March 2011, using the projected unit method.
At 31 March 2011, the actuarial deficit was 934m.
The market value of the schemes assets was 5,587m and these assets represented 86% of the benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected increases in earnings and pensions in payment.
Overseas The most significant overseas schemes are the funded defined benefit schemes which operate in the Republic of Ireland and South Korea.
An independent actuary, using the projected unit method, carried out the latest actuarial assessment of the Republic of Ireland scheme as at 1 April 2010 and South Korea as at 23 February 2013.
The valuations used for IAS 19 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations and updated by Towers Watson Limited to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes as at 23 February 2013.
The schemes assets are stated at their market values as at 23 February 2013.
Towers Watson Limited have updated the most recent Republic of Ireland and South Korea valuations.
The liabilities relating to retirement healthcare benefits have also been determined in accordance with IAS 19 and are incorporated in the following tables.
Principal assumptions The major assumptions, on a weighted average basis, used by the actuaries were as follows: 2013 2012 % % Discount rate 5.1 5.2 Price inflation 3.3 3.1 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.3 2.1 Rate of increase in salaries 3.4 3.2 Rate of increase in pensions in payment Benefits accrued before 1 June 2012 3.1 2.9 Benefits accrued after 1 June 2012 2.3 Rate of increase in career average benefits Benefits accrued before 1 June 2012 3.3 3.1 Benefits accrued after 1 June 2012 2.3 In excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element.
Changes were made in the year relating to any pension earned after 1 June 2012: the age at which a full pension is paid increased by two years and will be adjusted in the future if there are unexpected changes to life expectancy: and the basis for calculating the rate of increase in pensions in payment was changed to CPI previously RPI.
The main financial assumption is the real discount rate i. e. the excess of the discount rate over the rate of price inflation.
If this assumption increased decreased by 0.1%, the UK defined benefit obligation would decrease increase by approximately 210m and the annual UK current service cost would decrease increase by approximately 13m.
UK mortality assumptions The Company conducts analysis of mortality trends under the Tesco PLC Pension Scheme in the UK as part of the triennial actuarial valuation of the Scheme.
At the latest triennial actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2011 the following assumptions were adopted for funding purposes: Base tables: 90% of the SAPS normal male pensioners for male staff and 80% of the SAPS all male pensioners light for male senior managers.
105% of the SAPS normal female pensioners for female staff and 90% for female senior managers.
These assumptions were used for the calculation of the pension liability as at 23 February 2013 for the main UK scheme.
118 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 26 Post-employment benefits continued The mortality assumptions used are based on tables that have been projected to 2009 with long cohort improvements.
In addition, the allowance for future mortality improvements from 2009 is in line with medium cohort projections with a minimum annual improvement of 1% per annum.
The following table illustrates the expectation of life of an average member retiring at age 65 at the reporting date and a member reaching age 65 at reporting date 25 years.
2013 2012 years years Retiring at reporting date at age 65: Male 22.8 21.8 Female 24.3 23.6 Retiring at reporting date 25 years at age 65: Male 25.2 24.2 Female 26.5 26.1 Rates of return on scheme assets The assets in the defined benefit pension schemes and the expected nominal rates of return are as follows: 2013 2012 Long-term Market Long-term Market rate of return value rate of return value % m % m Equities 8.0 4,005 8.1 3,377 Bonds 3.9 1,533 4.9 1,365 Property 6.0 742 6.5 577 Other alternative assets 8.0 907 8.1 741 Cash 3.8 19 3.6 109 Total market value of assets 7,206 6,169 The expected rate of return on assets is a weighted average based on the actual plan assets held and the respective returns expected on the separate asset classes.
The expected rates of return on equities and cash have both been set with reference to the expected medium term, as calculated by the Companys independent actuary.
The expected rate of return on bonds was measured directly from actual yields for gilts and corporate bond stocks.
The rates take into account the actual mix of UK gilts, UK corporate bonds and overseas bonds held at the balance sheet date.
Movement in pension deficit during the financial year Changes in the fair value of defined benefit pension assets are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Opening fair value of defined benefit pension assets 6,169 5,608 Expected return 463 422 Actuarial gains losses 94 168 Contributions by employer 486 457 Additional contribution by employer 180 Actual member contributions 10 11 Foreign currency translation 9 1 Benefits paid 205 160 Closing fair value of defined benefit pension assets 7,206 6,169 As part of the 2011 triennial valuation, the Company agreed with the Trustees to increase security and, on top of the normal contributions, made an additional contribution of 180m to the UK Pension Scheme on 30 March 2012.
Changes in the present value of defined benefit pension obligation are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Opening defined benefit pension obligation 8,041 6,964 Current service cost 482 495 Past service gains 3 Interest cost 411 404 Losses on change of assumptions 830 373 Experience gains 1 43 Foreign currency translation 16 Benefits paid 205 160 Actual member contributions 10 11 Closing defined benefit pension obligation 9,584 8,041 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 119 Note 26 Post-employment benefits continued The amounts that have been charged to the Group Income Statement and Group Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 23February 2013 are set out below: 2013 2012 m m Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit: Current service cost 482 495 Past service gains 3 Total charge to operating profit 482 492 Analysis of the amount charged credited to finance cost income: Expected return on defined benefit pension assets 463 422 Interest on defined benefit pension obligation 411 404 Net pension finance income Note 5 52 18 Total charge to the Group Income Statement 430 474 Analysis of the amount recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income: Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit pension assets 94 168 Experience gains arising on defined benefit pension obligation 1 43 Foreign currency translation 7 Losses on change of assumptions on defined benefit pension obligation 830 373 Total losses recognised in the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 742 498 The cumulative losses recognised through the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income since the date of transition to IFRS are 1,965m 2012: 1,223m.
Summary of movements in deficit during the financial year 2013 2012 m m Deficit in schemes at beginning of the year 1,872 1,356 Current service cost 482 495 Past service gains 3 Net pension finance income 52 18 Contributions by employer 486 457 Additional contribution by employer 180 Foreign currency translation 7 1 Actuarial losses 735 498 Deficit in schemes at the end of the year 2,378 1,872 Deferred tax asset Note 6 539 465 Deficit in schemes at the end of the year net of deferred tax 1,839 1,407 History of movements The historical movement in defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities and history of experience gains and losses are as follows: 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Total market value of assets 7,206 6,169 5,608 4,696 3,420 Present value of liabilities relating to unfunded pension schemes 91 60 65 54 39 Present value of liabilities relating to partially funded pension schemes 9,493 7,981 6,899 6,482 4,875 Pension deficit 2,378 1,872 1,356 1,840 1,494 Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit pension assets 94 168 278 733 1,270 Experience gains losses on defined benefit pension obligation 1 43 25 1 117 Post-employment benefits other than pensions The Company operates a scheme offering post-retirement healthcare benefits.
The cost of providing these benefits has been accounted for on a similar basis to that used for defined benefit pension schemes.
The liability as at 23 February 2013 of 12m 2012: 11m was determined in accordance with the advice of independent actuaries.
During the full year 1m 2012: 1m has been charged to the Group Income Statement and 1m 2012: 1m of benefits were paid.
120 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 26 Post-employment benefits continued A change of 1% in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effect: 2013 2012 m m Effect of a 1% increase in assumed healthcare cost trend rates on: Service and interest cost Defined benefit obligation 2 2 Effect of a 1% decrease in assumed healthcare cost trend rates on: Service and interest cost Defined benefit obligation 1 1 Expected contributions The Company expects to make normal cash contributions of approximately 525m to defined benefit schemes in the financial year ending 22 February 2014.
Note 27 Called up share capital 2013 2012 Ordinary shares of 5p each Ordinary shares of 5p each Number m Number m Allotted, called up and fully paid: At beginning of the year 8,031,812,445 402 8,046,468,092 402 Share options exercises 18,632,251 1 23,490,825 1 Share bonus awards issues 3,610,234 32,656,313 2 Shares purchased for cancellation 70,802,785 3 At end of the year 8,054,054,930 403 8,031,812,445 402 During the financial year, 19 million 2012: 23 million ordinary shares of 5p each were issued in relation to share options for an aggregate consideration of 57m 2012: 69m.
During the financial year, 4 million 2012: 33 million shares of 5p each were issued in relation to share bonus awards for an aggregate consideration of 0.2m 2012: 1.6m.
Between 24 February 2013 and 12 April 2013 options over 1,288,429 ordinary shares were exercised under the terms of the Savings-related Share Option Scheme 1981 and the Irish Savings-related Share Options Scheme 2000.
Between 24 February 2013 and 12 April 2013 options over 2,741,490 ordinary shares have been exercised under the terms of the Executive Share Option Schemes 1994 and 1996 and the Discretionary Share Option Plan 2004.
As at 23 February 2013, the Directors were authorised to purchase up to a maximum in aggregate of 804.0 million 2012: 803.6 million ordinary shares.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at general meetings of the Company.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 121 Note 28 Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures and associates are disclosed below: Trading transactions Sales to Purchases from Amounts owed Amounts owed related parties related parties by related parties to related parties 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m m m Joint ventures 303 263 516 480 13 5 21 36 Associates 2 2 952 1,691 12 368 Sales to related parties consists of services management fees and loan interest.
Purchases from related parties include 387m 2012: 351m of rentals payable to the Groups joint ventures including those joint ventures formed as part of the sale and leaseback programme and 952m 2012: 1,691m of fuel purchased from Greenergy International Limited.
In addition, duty on the fuel purchases paid by the Group to Greenergy International Limited was 1,056m 2012: 1,950m.
Non-trading transactions Sale and leaseback Loans to Loans from Injection of of assets related parties related parties equity funding 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m m m Joint ventures 493 450 459 384 16 16 24 49 Associates 503 21 21 132 Transactions between the Group and the Groups pension plans are disclosed in Note 26.
A number of the Groups subsidiaries are members of one or more partnerships to whom the provisions of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 Regulations apply.
The accounts for those partnerships have been consolidated into these accounts pursuant to Regulation 7 of the Regulations.
On 13 February 2013, the Group completed a new sale and leaseback transaction involving UK property assets, structured as a 50-50 joint venture with the Cambridge University Endowment Fund.
Four trading stores and three mixed use sites under development were sold for a total consideration of 493m.
During the year, the Group completed two sale and leaseback transactions involving property assets in Thailand.
On 14 March 2012, seventeen trading malls were sold to the Tesco Lotus Growth Fund, an associated entity of the Group, for net consideration of 360m.
On 4 December 2012, a further five trading malls were sold for a consideration of 143m.
Transactions with key management personnel Members of the Board of Directors and Executive Committee of Tesco PLC are deemed to be key management personnel.
Key management personnel compensation and their transactions with Tesco Bank are disclosed below: 2013 2012 m m Salaries and short-term benefits 13 13 Pensions 3 4 Share-based payments 2 9 Loss of office costs 3 21 26 Of the total remuneration to key management personnel, 7m 2012: 6m relates to Executive Committee members who are not on the PLC Board.
Transactions of key management personnel with Tesco Bank during the financial year were as follows: Credit card and personal loan balances Saving deposit accounts Number of key Number of key management management personnel m personnel m At 23 February 2013 12 5 At 25 February 2012 12 13 2 122 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 29 Reconciliation of profit before tax to cash generated from operations 2013 2012 m m Profit before tax 1,960 4,038 Net finance costs Note 5 282 235 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates Note 13 54 91 Operating profit of continuing operations 2,188 4,182 Operating loss of discontinued operations 1,257 324 Depreciation and amortisation 1,590 1,498 Profits losses arising on property-related items from continuing operations 210 396 Profits losses arising on property-related items from discontinued operations 239 21 Loss arising on sale of non property-related items 4 Profit loss arising on sale of subsidiaries and other investments 35 5 Impairment of goodwill Note 10 575 Net charge of impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets not included in property-related items 629 75 Adjustment for non-cash element of pensions charge 4 35 Additional contribution into pension scheme 180 Share-based payments Note 25 53 125 Tesco Bank non-cash items included in profit before tax 170 166 Increase in inventories 54 420 Increase in development stock 40 41 Increase in trade and other receivables 104 139 Increase in trade and other payables and provisions 197 679 Tesco Bank increase decrease in loans and advances to customers Note 17 1,220 150 Tesco Bank decrease increase in trade and other receivables 359 278 Tesco Bank increase in customer and bank deposits and trade and other payables 487 356 Increase decrease in working capital 375 307 Cash generated from operations 3,873 5,688 The increase in working capital includes the impact of translating foreign currency working capital movements at average exchange rates rather than year end exchange rates.
Note 30 Analysis of changes in net debt At Tesco Bank at Other Net debt At 25 February 25 February Business non-cash of disposal Elimination 23 February 2012 2012 Cash flow combinations movements group of Tesco Bank 2013 m m m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,725 580 193 1 26 13 1,055 1,457 Short-term investments 1,243 721 522 Joint venture loan and other receivables 359 34 10 73 42 434 Bank and other borrowings 11,007 576 1,575 1 694 1 638 10,066 Finance lease payables 166 32 1 7 128 Net derivative financial instruments 1,003 52 24 166 31 1,172 Net debt of the disposal group 5 7 12 6,838 14 1,113 430 428 6,597 These amounts relate to the net debt excluding Tesco Bank but including the disposal group.
Note 31 Business combinations and other acquisitions During the current financial year, the Group completed business combination transactions with total cash consideration of 30m, which are not considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 123 Note 32 Commitments and contingencies Capital commitments At 23 February 2013, there were commitments for capital expenditure contracted for, but not provided for of 1,278m 2012: 1,599m, principally relating to store development.
Contingent liabilities Tesco PLC has irrevocably guaranteed the liabilities of the following Irish subsidiary undertakings for the financial year ended 23 February 2013, which undertakings have been exempted pursuant to Section 17 1 of the Companies Amendment Act 1986 of Ireland from the provisions of Section 7 other than subsection 1 b of that Act: Monread Developments Limited, Edson Properties Limited, Edson Investments Limited, Cirrus Finance 2009 Limited, Commercial Investments Limited, Chirac Limited, Clondalkin Properties Limited, Golden Island Management Services Limited, Tesco Ireland Pension Trustees Limited, Orpingford, Tesco Trustee Company of Ireland Limited, WSC Properties Limited, Thundridge, Pharaway Properties Limited, R. J. D. Holdings, Nabola Development Limited, PEJ Property Development Limited, Cirrus Finance Limited, Tesco Ireland Limited, Wanze Properties Dundalk Limited, Valiant Insurance Company Limited, Tesco Ireland Holdings Limited.
For details of assets held under finance leases, which are pledged as security for the finance lease liabilities, see Note 11.
There are a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the normal course of business which if realised are not expected to result in a material liability to the Group.
The Group recognises provisions for liabilities when it is more likely than not that a settlement will be required and the value of such a payment can be reliably estimated.
Tesco Bank At 23 February 2013, Tesco Bank had commitments of formal standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend, totalling 8.5bn 2012: 7.4bn.
The amount is intended to provide an indication of the potential volume of business and not of the underlying credit or other risks.
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS is the UK statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services institutions and pays compensation if a firm is unable to pay claims against it.
The FSCS has borrowed from HM Treasury to fund these compensation costs associated with institutions that failed in 2008 and will receive receipts from asset sales, surplus cash flow and other recoveries from these institutions in the future.
The initial borrowings from HM Treasury are on an interest-only basis and, as from 1 April 2012, this has increased from 12month LIBOR plus 30 basis points to 12 month LIBOR plus 100 basis points.
The FSCS meets its obligations by raising management expense levies which will be capped based on limits advised by the PRA and FCA.
These include amounts to cover the interest on its borrowings and compensation levies on the industry.
Each deposit-taking institution contributes in proportion to its share of total protected deposits.
As at 23 February 2013, Tesco Bank accrued 7m 2012: 5m in respect of its current obligation to meet expenses levies, based on indicative costs published by the FSCS.
If the FSCS does not receive sufficient funds from the failed institutions to repay HM Treasury in full it will raise compensation levies.
At this time it is not possible to estimate the amount or timing of any shortfall resulting from the cash flows received from the failed institutions and, accordingly, no provision for compensation levies, which could be significant, has been made in these financial statements, so this element is treated as a contingent liability.
Note 33 Capital resources The following table shows the composition of regulatory capital resources of Tesco Personal Finance PLC TPF, being the regulated entity, at the balance sheet date: 2013 2012 m m Tier 1 capital: Shareholders funds and non-controlling interests 687 661 Tier 2 capital: Qualifying subordinated debt 372 375 Other interests 25 22 50% of material holdings 64 53 Other supervisory deductions 259 Total regulatory capital 1,020 746 124 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Notes to the Group financial statements Note 33 Capital resources continued The movement of tier 1 capital during the financial year is analysed as follows: 2013 2012 m m At beginning of the year 661 708 Share capital and share premium 45 112 Profit attributable to shareholders 158 65 Other reserves 1 6 Ordinary dividends 105 108 50% of material holdings 11 Increase in intangible assets 60 122 At end of the year 687 661 During the year the Group revised the capital disclosure of the holding in its insurance regulated associate Tesco Underwriting Limited.
This change reduced the tier 1 capital ratio in the previous year to 14.15% from 15.28%.
There is no change in the risk asset ratio.
It is TPFs policy to maintain a strong capital base, to expand it as appropriate and to utilise it efficiently throughout its activities to optimise the return to shareholders while maintaining a prudent relationship between the capital base and the underlying risks of the business.
In carrying out this policy, TPF has regard to the supervisory requirements of the PRA.
TPF has carried regulatory capital reserves in excess of its capital requirements throughout the financial year.
Note 34 Leasing commitments Finance lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has finance leases for various items of plant, equipment, fixtures and fittings.
There are also a small number of buildings which are held under finance leases.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximate to their carrying value.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Present value of Minimum lease payments minimum lease payments 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Within one year 13 39 6 32 Greater than one year but less than five years 52 58 15 20 After five years 212 222 107 114 Total minimum lease payments 277 319 128 166 Less future finance charges 149 153 Present value of minimum lease payments 128 166 Analysed as: Current finance lease payables 6 32 Non-current finance lease payables 122 134 128 166 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 125 Note 34 Leasing commitments continued Operating lease commitments Group as lessee Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Within one year 1,404 1,289 Greater than one year but less than five years 4,999 4,797 After five years 10,867 11,237 Total minimum lease payments 17,270 17,323 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases after five years are analysed further as follows: 2013 2012 m m Greater than five years but less than ten years 4,756 4,667 Greater than ten years but less than fifteen years 3,128 3,245 After fifteen years 2,983 3,325 Total minimum lease payments after five years 10,867 11,237 Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases associated with the discontinued operations in the US are excluded from the above tables 2012: 709m.
See Note 7 for further details on discontinued operations.
Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its retail, distribution and office properties and other assets such as motor vehicles.
The leases have varying terms, purchase options, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group has lease break options on certain sale and leaseback transactions, which are exercisable if an existing option to buy back leased assets at market value at a specified date is also exercised, no commitment has been included in respect of the buy-back option as the option is at the Groups discretion.
The Group is not obliged to pay lease rentals after that date, therefore minimum lease payments exclude those falling after the buy-back date.
Operating lease commitments with joint ventures and associates Since 1988 the Group has entered into several joint ventures and sold and leased back properties to and from these joint ventures.
In addition, the Group also entered into property sale and leaseback transactions with an associate in this financial year.
The terms of these sale and leasebacks vary, however, common factors include: the sale of the properties to the joint venture at market value: options within the lease for the Group to repurchase the properties at market value: market rent reviews: and 20 to 30 full-year lease terms.
The Group reviews the substance as well as the form of the arrangements when determining the classification of leases as operating or finance.
All of the leases under these arrangements are operating leases.
Operating lease receivables Group as lessor The Group both rents out its properties and also sublets various leased buildings under operating leases.
At the balance sheet date, the following future minimum lease payments are contractually receivable from tenants: 2013 2012 m m Within one year 258 241 Greater than one year but less than five years 348 398 After five years 260 297 Total minimum lease receivables 866 936 126 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Tesco PLC Parent Company balance sheet 23 February 25 February 2013 2012 notes m m Non-current assets Investments 5 14,540 13,675 Derivative financial instruments 10 1,913 1,706 16,453 15,381 Current assets Derivative financial instruments 10 198 19 Debtors 6 12,017 8,807 Current asset investments 7 522 1,289 Cash and cash equivalents 5 12,742 10,115 Creditors amounts falling due within one year Borrowings 9 292 1,437 Derivative financial instruments 10 91 90 Other creditors 8 8,218 5,708 8,601 7,235 Net current assets 4,141 2,880 Total assets less current liabilities 20,594 18,261 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year Borrowings 9 9,436 9,433 Derivative financial instruments 10 694 620 10,130 10,053 Net assets 10,464 8,208 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 13 403 402 Share premium 14 5,020 4,964 Profit and loss reserve 14 5,041 2,842 Total equity 10,464 8,208 The notes on pages 127 to 134 form part of these financial statements.
Philip Clarke Laurie McIlwee Directors The Parent Company financial statements on pages 126 to 134 were authorised for issue by the Directors on 1 May 2013 and are subject to the approval of the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 28 June 2013.
