Accordingly, these operations have been treated as discontinued in 2013.
The 2012 statistics have been re-presented to be consistent with 2013.
Prior years have not been re-presented.
3 Operating profit includes restructuring costs and profit arising on sale of fixed assets.
Operating margin is based upon revenue excluding IFRIC 13.
5 Dividend per share relating to the interim and proposed final dividend.
6 Return on capital employed is profit before interest and tax less tax at the effective rate of tax divided by the calculated average of opening and closing net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for resale.
7 Excluding acquisition of Tesco Bank and Homever, India start-up costs, and after adjusting for assets held for sale.
Calculated on a 52-week basis, ROCE for 2009 is 12.8%.
9 Market capitalisation plus net debt.
10 Includes franchise stores but excludes Japan.
11 Store sizes exclude lobby and restaurant areas.
12 Restated to include Dobbies stores.
13 Restated to include Dobbies stores and account for a space restatement of 109,000 sq ft driven by a comprehensive remeasurement of One Stop stores.
14 Based on average number of full-time equivalent employees in the UK and revenue excluding IFRIC 13.
15 Based on weighted average sales area and average weekly sales, excluding Dobbies stores.
Financial calendar Financial year end 2012 13 23 February 2013 Final ex-dividend date 24 April 2013 Record date 26 April 2013 Q1 Interim Management Statement 5 June 2013 Annual General Meeting 28 June 2013 Final dividend payment date 5 July 2013 Half-year end 2013 14 24 August 2013 Interim Results 2 October 2013 Q3 Interim Management Statement 4 December 2013 Financial year end 2013 14 22 February 2014 Please note that dates are provisional and subject to change.
Glossary Capital expenditure: the additions to property, plant and equipment, Return on capital employed: profit before interest and tax less tax investment property and intangible assets excluding assets acquired at the effective rate of tax divided by the calculated average of opening under business combinations.
and closing net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for resale.
Capex % of sales: capital expenditure as defined above, divided by Group sales including VAT and excluding IFRIC 13.
Total shareholder return: the notional return from a share, measured as the percentage change in the share price, plus the dividends paid Constant tax rate: using the prior years effective tax rate.
with the gross dividends reinvested in Tesco shares.
This is measured over either a five-year or a one-year period.
For the latter, TSR represents EBITDAR: operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, rent the movement for the current financial year.
and movements in impairments of property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible assets.
Underlying diluted earnings per share: underlying profit less tax at the effective tax rate and minority interest divided by the diluted Fixed charge cover: the ratio of EBITDAR excluding Tesco Bank weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
EBITDAR divided by financing costs net interest excluding IAS 32 and 39 impacts and pension finance costs plus operating lease expenses.
Underlying profit before tax: underlying profit before tax excludes the impact of non-cash elements of IAS 17, 19, 32 and 39 principally Gearing: net debt divided by total equity.
the impact of annual uplifts in rents and rent-free periods, pension costs, and the marking to market of financial instruments : the amortisation Net indebtedness: the ratio of adjusted net debt net debt plus charge on intangible assets arising on acquisition and acquisition costs, pension deficit and the present value of lease obligations divided and the non-cash impact of IFRIC 13.
It also excludes restructuring and by EBITDAR excluding Tesco Bank EBITDAR.
Designed and produced by CONRAN DESIGN GROUP This Report is printed on Revive 100 Pure White Silk paper and has been independently certified on behalf of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
Tesco PLC Tesco House Delamare Road Cheshunt Hertfordshire EN8 9SL www.
com ar2013 Overview Performance review Our year in review 1 Chairmans statement 16 Key performance indicators 20 Financial review Business review 3 Report from the Chief Executive 10 Core Purpose and Values 12 Vision and Strategy 1 4 Business Model Working to make what matters better, together 24 Board of Directors 33 Group financials Summary financial statement 26 Executive Committee 35 Financial calendar 28 Summary report 36 Glossary of the Directors 32 Independent auditors statement to the members of Tesco PLC Go online to find out more, hear from our leadership Find out more online team and explore our businesses in more detail.
Youll find PDF and Excel downloads of our financial statements too.
Tesco PLC Tesco House Visit www.
Delamare Road Cheshunt Tesco PLC Annual Review Hertfordshire EN8 9SL and Summary Financial www.
com ar2013 Statement 2013 As one of the worlds largest retailers, with at a glance over 530,000 colleagues, we serve millions of customers a week in our stores and online Highlights UK Asia Europe Tesco Bank 43.6bn 2,272m 11.5bn 661m 9.3bn 329m 1.0bn 191m 72.4bn Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Group sales 66% 66% 18% 19% 14% 10% 2% 5% 1.3% Group sales growth 1.8% 8.3 % 6.0% 10.3 % 5.5 % 37.8 % 2.2 % 15.1 % Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit 2.0bn growth growth growth growth growth growth growth growth Group profit before tax st st nd st nd 313,885 1 125,797 1 or 2 94,712 1 or 2 3,390 6.0bn colleagues market positioning colleagues in three markets colleagues in five markets colleagues savings deposits 14.5 % 3,146 Around 16m 2,131 Around 20m 1,507 Over 7m 6.6m Underlying profit stores loyalty scheme stores loyalty scheme stores loyalty scheme customer accounts before tax members members members Plan to Build a Better Tesco on track Regulatory challenges in South Korea Customers affected by severe economic Successfully transferred all of our with improvements made to our offer and held back profit growth conditions customers onto our own platforms 14.0 % more to come in 2013 14 Successfully launched online grocery Slovakia and Hungary proved more resilient Launched our first range of mortgage Year-on-year profit performance reflects businesses in Thailand and Malaysia Successfully launched online grocery products in August Underlying diluted UK reinvestment Expanded our convenience store business businesses, now in all of our Central Launched ISAs and Junior ISAs in earnings per share Strong progress in our online grocery in Thailand to over 1,115 stores European markets November business with sales growing by 12.8% Growing our portfolio of businesses by investing in WE7, Mobcast, Giraffe, Harris Hoole and Euphorium 14.76p Full year dividend per share maintained Designed and produced by CONRAN DESIGN GROUP This Report is printed on Revive 100 Pure White Silk paper and has been independently certified on behalf of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
All highlights reported on a continuing operations basis, excluding the United States and Japan which Calculated on a constant tax rate basis.
have been treated as discontinued.
Excludes the accounting impact of IFRIC 13.
See glossary on the inside back cover for full accounting definitions.
As one of the worlds largest retailers, with at a glance over 530,000 colleagues, we serve millions of customers a week in our stores and online Highlights UK Asia Europe Tesco Bank 43.6bn 2,272m 11.5bn 661m 9.3bn 329m 1.0bn 191m 72.4bn Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Group sales 66% 66% 18% 19% 14% 10% 2% 5% 1.3% Group sales growth 1.8% 8.3 % 6.0% 10.3 % 5.5 % 37.8 % 2.2 % 15.1 % Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit Revenue Trading profit 2.0bn growth growth growth growth growth growth growth growth Group profit before tax st st nd st nd 313,885 1 125,797 1 or 2 94,712 1 or 2 3,390 6.0bn colleagues market positioning colleagues in three markets colleagues in five markets colleagues savings deposits 14.5 % 3,146 Around 16m 2,131 Around 20m 1,507 Over 7m 6.6m Underlying profit stores loyalty scheme stores loyalty scheme stores loyalty scheme customer accounts before tax members members members Plan to Build a Better Tesco on track Regulatory challenges in South Korea Customers affected by severe economic Successfully transferred all of our with improvements made to our offer and held back profit growth conditions customers onto our own platforms 14.0 % more to come in 2013 14 Successfully launched online grocery Slovakia and Hungary proved more resilient Launched our first range of mortgage Year-on-year profit performance reflects businesses in Thailand and Malaysia Successfully launched online grocery products in August Underlying diluted UK reinvestment Expanded our convenience store business businesses, now in all of our Central Launched ISAs and Junior ISAs in earnings per share Strong progress in our online grocery in Thailand to over 1,115 stores European markets November business with sales growing by 12.8% Growing our portfolio of businesses by investing in WE7, Mobcast, Giraffe, Harris Hoole and Euphorium 14.76p Full year dividend per share maintained Designed and produced by CONRAN DESIGN GROUP This Report is printed on Revive 100 Pure White Silk paper and has been independently certified on behalf of the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Overview Performance review Our year in review 1 Chairmans statement 16 Key performance indicators 20 Financial review Business review 3 Report from the Chief Executive 10 Core Purpose and Values 12 Vision and Strategy 1 4 Business Model Working to make what matters better, together 24 Board of Directors 33 Group financials Summary financial statement 26 Executive Committee 35 Financial calendar 28 Summary report 36 Glossary of the Directors 32 Independent auditors statement to the members of Tesco PLC Go online to find out more, hear from our leadership Find out more online team and explore our businesses in more detail.
com ar2013 Statement 2013 BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 1 Chairmans statement This time last year, I referred to the business going through a transition and said: We will continue in 2012 13 to address long-standing business issues in the UK and elsewhere in order to secure future prosperity as well as ensuring that our financial and human resources are developed and deployed where they are able most effectively to generate future growth and returns.
This is what has been done.
It has been a year of addressing long-standing business issues: bedding in management and governance change: and laying the foundations for sustainable future growth.
In all these areas I believe the Company has responded with energy, skill and application and we have made progress.
Business issues One of the greatest challenges for a business is to face itself honestly.
It is also the mark of a quality business that it can do so, since the capacity to name issues is the essential first step towards addressing them.
The decisions to seek a sale of the US business and to call an end to the UK space race in large stores reflect this.
As with the decision last year to reinvest in our UK business, they reflected a long, hard look at where the business needs to devote its energy and resources to create sustainable value: and a willingness to Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman face up to tough decisions to do this.
Some of these decisions had painful short-term consequences.
The early signs are that the decision to reinvest in the UK is It has been a year of addressing strengthening the business and we believe the steps we have taken in the US and in respect to UK property will similarly long-standing business issues: bedding underpin a sustainable, profitable future, notwithstanding in management and governance change: the accounting write-downs we have had to take this year as a consequence.
and laying the foundations for sustainable Bedding in management and governance change future growth.
In all these areas I believe The year has also seen a generational transition in management.
the Company has responded with energy, This is not a surprise when there has been a relatively unchanged management team in place for a substantial time and we are skill and application and we have fortunate in Tesco to have a substantial depth of talent to draw made progress.
It is striking how many of the executives taking on new and enhanced responsibilities bring international as well as extensive UK experience to their roles, reflecting the breadth of Tescos business.
A largely new Executive Committee has been developed under Philip Clarkes leadership.
Many talented, and widely experienced, younger executives are getting to grips with new responsibilities with skill and enthusiasm.
Similarly in the UK business, a substantially new leadership team with a wide diversity of experience and skills is in place under a new Managing Director.
com ar2013 to hear more from Sir Richard Broadbent and other members of the leadership team.
2 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Chairmans statement continued The Board also has been reshaped during the year.
We now have We will approach these choices within a framework of rigorous a smaller Board, of ten, with a different balance of Executives capital discipline.
A company like Tesco will often appear to and Non-executives.
Three Executive Directors Andrew have multiple short-term opportunities to invest, but sustained Higginson, Tim Mason and Lucy Neville-Rolfe have left the returns depend on a rigorous judgement about both the Board since our last Annual Report and we are grateful for all quantum and allocation of capital over time.
As we made clear that they have contributed to Tesco over many years.
The Group in our Preliminary Results announcement in April, this is a Executive Committee rather than the Board is now the focus discipline that now informs all that we do.
of operational business oversight, allowing the Board to focus Financial results on a more strategic agenda.
The financial results for the year reflected the steps being taken We have also seen Karen Cook and Ken Hydon, two longto ensure that we can deliver sustainable and attractive returns serving Non-executives, retire after nine years on the Board and long-term growth for shareholders.
Hence, while we and we extend our thanks to them for their contributions.
continued to see sales growth, of 1.3%, Group trading profit Liv Garfield, Chief Executive of BT Openreach, joined the was down 13.0 % on last year and underlying profit before Board as a Non-executive Director on 1 April 2013. tax down by 14.5 %, reflecting our previously announced investment in the shopping trip for customers in the UK, in Laying the foundations for future growth addition to the impact of regulatory restrictions on opening As immediate operational business issues are addressed, our hours in South Korea and the effects of deteriorating economic attention can turn increasingly to the strategic judgements conditions, particularly in Central Europe.
Statutory profit before that will determine Tescos prosperity and value for shareholders tax fell by 51.5 %, due to the impact of a number of significant over the next decade.
Our strategic choices are defined by three but one-off charges related to the important steps we are taking parameters: the strength of the Tesco brand: the internet and all to reshape the business, including a write-down of our UK the associated developments it is driving: and the potential to property following an in-depth review of our forward pipeline, leverage our skill and scale internationally.
our exit from the US and goodwill impairment of businesses All retailers must decide how to position their businesses relative in Poland, Czech Republic, and Turkey.
to the rapid development of the internet which, together with Return on capital employed ROCE decreased during the social media, is changing both how consumers choose to shop year as expected, reflecting the impact of the decline in trading and what they expect from a retailer that aspires to serve them.
Prior to the impact of one-off charges, This creates both opportunities and challenges which Tesco Group ROCE was 12.7%.
We continued our long record of needs to understand and respond to, both in terms of offering strong dividend payouts to shareholders, with the full year more diverse ways for customers to shop and by forging more dividend maintained at 14.76p.
personal, customised relationships with its customers.
I would like to extend my thanks, on behalf of the Board, to Internationally, we have the potential to create value for everyone in Tesco who in an exceptional year has, as always, shareholders by leveraging our skill and scale into relatively striven to anticipate and meet the needs of our customers while high-growth economies with less well-developed retail sectors.
all the time retaining a sense of perspective, sometimes a sense The key to unlocking this value is discipline in how opportunities of humour and always a sense of respect for others.
They are are approached and flexibility, drawing on the lessons of a great group of people and we are lucky to have them.
experience, in how they are developed.
At the same time, and driven by many of the same factors, brand and reputation will become ever more critical points of differentiation as the internet continues to broaden access and choice for consumers, and as consumers themselves develop expectations about levels of choice, service and, increasingly, behaviours that match their own values and aspirations.
Against this background, the investment choices we make Sir Richard Broadbent Chairman over the next few years as we develop Tesco as an international multichannel retailer with strong brands and a distinctive identity appreciated by customers, are and will continue to be critical judgements for the Board as it seeks to secure long-term returns for shareholders.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 3 Report from the Chief Executive Philip Clarke Chief Executive I am pleased to have this opportunity to report on the past year, during which we have Ive worked in retailing for taken some significant business decisions and laid down some important building nearly 40 years but never blocks for the future.
in that time has there been I will share my perceptions of the year under the following headings: a period of such profound The wider context adapting to lead the digital future The business in 2012 13 a year of transition and rapid change as I see Setting financial disciplines for the future today.
The digital age is Driving future growth and returns Culture transforming not just the Management way people shop, but also The wider context adapting to lead the digital future the way they live their lives.
It has been clear for some time that we are seeing a seismic shift in our industry and its pace is accelerating.
In 2012 global e-commerce activity reached $1 trillion.
Ive worked in retailing for nearly 40 years but never in that time has there been a period of such profound and rapid change as I see today.
The digital age is transforming not just the way people shop, but also the way they live their lives.
The opportunities this is creating are exciting.
It provides the potential for Tesco to make customers lives easier: to enable them to shop in whichever way suits them best: and it enables us to offer them new products and services.
This plays to our strengths.
Since Tesco was founded, we have always been pioneers and innovators in retailing.
Our central focus, our culture, is and has been to lead in understanding and delivering what customers want, in the way they want it, at the time they want it.
Uniquely among our peers, we have a profitable dotcom grocery business.
From drivethrough Grocery Click & Collect in the UK to our virtual shopping walls on the subway in South Korea, we are introducing exciting innovations to improve the customer shopping trip.
Thanks to Clubcard and dunnhumby we have unique insights into how our customers behaviour is changing.
Our new conversation with customers through a variety of channels is about listening to what they want, to how theyre living their lives today, and then adapting and building the business accordingly: as we have said V isit www.
com ar2013 to hear for years, Every Little Helps.
more from Philip Clarke and other members of the leadership team.
4 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Report from the Chief Executive continued So we are exceptionally well-placed to thrive in this new era of retailing.
However, to A truly multichannel business grasp the opportunity we must adapt because it will require a different type of business, one which offers customers with a different type of relationship with our customers, and a new set of capabilities.
the ability to shop anywhere, We have already begun this process of adaptation.
anyhow and any time will A year ago, I signalled the end of the space race and a change in focus.
I indicated that our future investment would be less about new large stores, and that it would be more be more likely to become a focused on multichannel retailing and on smaller formats.
winner in the new era than A year on, I am even more certain that this is the right approach for us to take.
The one which concentrates purely future of retailing is multichannel because, in this increasingly complex and volatile world, consumers are looking for simplicity and for brands they can trust.
A truly on one channel or another.
multichannel business one which offers customers the ability to shop anywhere, anyhow and any time will be more likely to become a winner in the new era than one which concentrates purely on one channel or another.
Our stores are a vital part of this multichannel vision.
Tesco has a superb portfolio of well-located stores in all of our markets, but adapting to a digital future means harnessing this great asset to the changing requirements of the digital age.
This will require rethinking how we use the space in our stores, how we offer and deliver what we sell, how we interface with our customers and much else besides.
I will return to the specifics of what we are doing in some of these areas below.
The business in 2012 13 a year of transition This years performance was principally the result of three things in combination: the decision we took in early 2012 to reset our margin in the UK and invest 1 billion in improving our offer for customers: the continuing economic challenges our customers around the world are facing, particularly in and around the Eurozone: and the impact of legislation restricting opening hours in South Korea, our largest market outside the UK.
I have reflected on the work we have done over the first two years of my tenure as CEO and it is clear to me that much of our effort has been about removing barriers to progress.
The business has delivered many years of growth and good returns, but was in danger of being inhibited from further sustainable progress by an attachment to initiatives and strategies which, while they served us well in the past, need to be adapted to deliver growth in a more economically challenged and rapidly changing world.
Consequently we have had to tackle a number of issues which needed to be addressed before we could move the business forward.
This work has entailed some tough and at times painful decisions and while it is not finished, I am confident we have already tackled the biggest issues.
These changes were often difficult to face up to, complex to implement and they have required a great deal of hard work by many people, some of whom have been directly affected by the decisions.
By way of reminder, in a little over 18 months we have: 1.
Decided to exit markets in which we saw no prospect of acceptable investment returns in an appropriate time frame Japan and the United States: 2.
Devised and progressed the comprehensive 1 billion investment plan to Build a Better Tesco in the UK, resetting our margins to fund the scale and pace of change required: 3.
Put an end to the big store space race placing a much greater emphasis on growth through both digital and convenience retailing, wherever we operate: 4.
R eviewed our entire UK property pipeline to ensure it is appropriate for our future needs and valued accordingly.
Going forward this will mean less capital commitment to property development and also less asset divestment: 5.
Reflected the new global economic reality by reviewing and moderating the rate of expansion in some large economies such as China and sharply reduced spending in some of our European markets: and BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 5 6.
Focused Tesco Bank on the smooth migration of customer accounts to our platforms, strong governance, risk management and increasingly on preparing it for its key role in our multichannel future.
These decisive actions are necessary in order to ensure sustainable longer-term growth.
I am acutely aware that withdrawing from the US and writing down the value of property developments no longer appropriate for the future have had a significant impact.
It is time to act and I believe this work has cleared the way for the business now to move forward.
Having tackled these issues, Tesco is a more focused business, which can apply all of its considerable resources and energies to meeting the challenges and grasping the opportunities created by the changes taking place in our industry today.
These actions may have been the most visible, and therefore the most tangible, signs of change to the outside world but within Tesco weve been making other important changes to prepare the business for the future putting it on track for sustainable growth and returns.
Setting financial disciplines for the future Not only have we started on the journey of transforming our business to enable it to move forward as a leader in the new digital world, we are also fundamentally changing the financial profile of the Group.
The Tesco of the future will pursue more focused growth, consume less capital and Everything we are doing generate more free cash flow.
Making this transformation in all its aspects will of course reflects my determination not be without its challenges and the clearest evidence of this can be seen in the first to deliver shareholder value, reduction in profits of the Group for two decades, which we reported on in April.
an appropriate balance Everything we are doing reflects my determination to deliver shareholder value, an appropriate balance between investing for future growth, and delivering sustainable between investing for future returns for our shareholders.
I want to be very clear: if there is one lesson to be learned growth, and delivering from the past it is the importance of capital discipline and this marks the start of a new era of capital discipline in Tesco.
sustainable returns for our We are confident we can deliver attractive and sustainable returns within a framework shareholders.
where capital expenditure falls to around 3.5% to 4% of sales.
For our investors, this means they can expect mid-single digit trading profit growth and return on capital employed within a range of 12% to 15%.
The fundamental change in our approach to new space I described earlier also has implications for our sale and leaseback programme.
Two years ago, we reviewed the programme and announced a steady reduction in the level of divestments, in order to ensure that any property profits released were matched to the level of new profit created by development activities.
Given that we have significantly reduced the amount of these activities going forward, we believe that it is appropriate to accelerate the scaling back of the sale and leaseback programme, such that it is unlikely to make a material contribution after the next few years.
The outcomes which we have laid out for investors will be achieved through disciplined investment, focused on those existing markets where we see the best opportunity for significant growth and returns.
Driving future growth and returns For me as your CEO, driving sustainable growth within this new financial framework is about three priorities.
These are not new areas for us but they each have the capacity to be the engines of growth for the Group for years to come: i Continue to strengthen the UK business ii Drive sustainable growth through multichannel leadership iii Pursue disciplined international growth Whilst the past year has not been without some significant challenges, we have made progress on these priorities: 6 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Report from the Chief Executive continued i Continue to strengthen the UK business Having grasped the nettle A year ago we announced a plan to Build a Better Tesco in the UK.
In last years and decided to reinvest Annual Report I described how getting our business at home back to leading was the single most important objective for Tesco.
Having grasped the nettle and decided to in the UK business in reinvest in the UK business in early 2012, we have seen a pleasing response from early 2012, we have seen customers and consequently the performance of the business is now markedly a pleasing response better.
The Building a Better Tesco plan is firmly on track.
I am proud of the work our teams have done to improve the look and feel of certain from customers stores, to develop new products and to reformulate existing product ranges, whilst and consequently the delivering better service and availability for customers.
We want to be the best value, performance of the business most convenient and integrated, most relevant and personalised retailer and we are making good progress.
We invested 200 million to have the equivalent of 8,000 more colleagues in-store and also provided customer service and specialist training for nearly 250,000 team members to help them serve customers better.
Consequently, our customer ratings of service and staff helpfulness have improved and customer complaint numbers have fallen sharply.
We have made a good start and there will be more progress in 2013.
We refreshed 300 stores, representing almost a quarter of our space, delivering a warmer look and feel and better standards of presentation in our fresh food departments.
Our price image with customers has also improved, and we have supplemented our work on pricing with stronger, personalised Clubcard mailings and, more recently, the introduction of our Tesco Price Promise, which aims to reassure customers that they will never be disadvantaged on price when they shop with us.
On ranging, the strong performance of the relaunched Everyday Value range has continued and we have put significant investment into improving 3,500 core Tesco own-label lines, with an emphasis on fresh food categories.
We have made fundamental changes to the way we communicate with our customers, with the most prominent early change being the appointment of a new lead advertising agency, Wieden Kennedy.
Our first new advertising campaign, which began last Christmas, was very well received by customers.
Our store strategy is Food First which means a more targeted, less space-intensive approach to general merchandise in-store, with Tesco Direct becoming better equipped to offer customers the much greater breadth and depth of range that the online platform provides so well.
It also means other changes to our stores such as clothing becoming more prominent and services taking more space.
This means, for example, allocating more space to Click & Collect so that we are giving customers the compelling convenience of being able to order what they want online and pick up in-store.
Upgrading our in-store dining offer will also utilise more of our existing space.
We aim to give customers shopping in our stores the kind of food experience they have when they visit shopping malls or high streets.
Well do this through the investments we have made in new family-friendly restaurants, coffee shops and artisan bakeries such as Giraffe, Harris Hoole and Euphorium.
They will be increasingly available around our network of larger stores in the UK.
Ive been particularly encouraged to see that the innovative spirit, that desire to be first for customers which made Tesco what it is, has also flourished in this period of rapid change.
A good example of this is in our dotcom grocery business where the roll-out of our drive-through Click & Collect modules in 150 of our car parks helped our online sales grow 12.8% which was faster than the market, in which we already have a high share.
The launch of our Delivery Saver subscription service in May 2012 also contributed to our outperformance.
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 7 Our UK business is more competitive, performance relative to the market has improved and our margins have stabilised, as planned, and there is still much more to come.
The scope for further improvement means that this objective remains our most important priority.
I am pleased with the progress weve made, but I am equally pleased that we have the opportunity and plans for that progress to continue.
With the new UK management team now bedded in, in January this year I felt able to step back from the day-to-day running of the business, which I had assumed temporarily in March 2012.
Chris Bush, who has over 30 years experience in Tesco, has taken over the leadership as UK Managing Director.
The strategic importance of Tesco Bank to the Group is being increased by the impact of the internet on the way our customers shop and I believe it is a key part of our The strategic importance multichannel future.
It will provide the means for more and more of our customers to of Tesco Bank to the Group is transact online using Tesco financial products.
Several years of infrastructure build and the wider challenges that the whole banking sector has had to deal with from more being increased by the impact careful management of risk to PPI claims have held back performance.
The Bank plays of the internet on the way an important role in driving increased loyalty for Tesco and we are giving even more focus to delivering the best possible products and prices to our Clubcard customers.
our customers shop and I ii Drive sustainable growth through multichannel leadership believe it is a key part of our I believe establishing multichannel leadership combining digital and online multichannel future.
seamlessly with our existing excellent physical store network is going to be critical for our future success.
Weve made good progress were the largest internet retailer of food in the UK and were getting bigger and better in clothing and general merchandise but the opportunities remain huge.
The judgements we make today about how we respond to the new digital era will profoundly affect the kind of business Tesco becomes in the years ahead.
The internet and social media are rapidly changing the way people live their lives: the way they shop and what they expect from us not just in terms of goods and services, but also what we stand for and how we contribute to society.
The speed of that change is accelerating and if we are to lead this revolution in our industry, I believe we must move faster and embrace it.
Calling an end to the big store space race and beginning a move to refocus our investment away from large stores, particularly hypermarkets, to convenience and online has been followed by an accelerating pace of change over recent months in all our businesses and geographies.
For example, we are increasing our investment in technology and 500 million of our total capital spend will be devoted to technology, enabling us to create a seamless blend between our stores and online businesses.
A good example of this change in emphasis is blinkbox.
We are already one of the leading retailers of films, TV series, music and books in the UK.
Given the rapid pace of change in the way customers are buying entertainment products, we have been working to develop a range of new digital services.
In March 2013 we launched Clubcard TV using the blinkbox platform, a free service providing family-friendly films and television series to our most loyal customers.
In the next few months, we will Given the rapid pace of be launching blinkboxmusic and blinkboxbooks, demonstrating our commitment to providing the very best entertainment as easily as possible for our customers.
change in the way customers Going forward, we will be applying this thinking and experience to our international are buying entertainment markets around the world.
products, we have been working to develop a range of new digital services.
8 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Report from the Chief Executive continued iii Pursue disciplined international growth The single most important step we took in 2012 13 in our international business was to launch a strategic review of Fresh & Easy in the United States and in April we confirmed our decision to exit the market.
This was not a decision lightly reached but in keeping with what I have said about the need to move the business forward, and to do so in a disciplined way the US business simply did not offer the prospect of acceptable returns in an appropriate time frame.
Whilst the process of exit is ongoing, and as such the full financial effect of it is yet to be fully determined, we have written down the assets of the business and booked provisions for future liabilities which together have impacted profit after tax by 1 billion.
Fundamentally, we invest overseas because we have the opportunity to generate returns by using our skill and scale in high-growth economies, where retailing is less mature, to build substantial market positions and strong consumer franchises.
This opportunity is unchanged and exploiting it remains an important element of our strategy.
We have had success 32% of our sales and 29% of our profit now comes from outside the UK, and we have market-leading businesses in eight of our 11 international markets.
Over two decades of international development we have learned a huge amount about what works and what doesnt getting the pace and scale of expansion right for local conditions, getting the balance right between local front-end, global skills in sourcing and logistics and being ready to partner where appropriate.
Utilising this knowledge is critical to driving future returns from our international business.
Looking forward, these lessons will guide our approach to internationalisation.
We will stay We will stay focused for the focused for the foreseeable future on our existing markets, and on allocating significant foreseeable future on our capital only where we see very good prospects of strong investment returns.
And where we do invest, it will be with a clear emphasis on lower capital intensity routes to growth existing markets, and on such as convenience and online.
allocating significant capital I have categorised our countries into three groups to explain what this approach means only where we see very in practice: good prospects of strong In Thailand, South Korea and Malaysia, where we have strong market positions and economic growth remains more robust, our businesses have substantial further investment returns.
These markets continued to deliver excellent performance in 2012 13, although the headline growth was obscured by the c. 100 million profit impact of legislation to restrict large store shopping hours in South Korea.
Looking forward, the opportunities to build on our already strong positions in these fast-growing economies remain compelling and are therefore our highest international priority.
In the European markets where we have solid, in some cases, market-leading businesses, but where the economic backdrop has been damaging to performance, our emphasis will be on holding our position, driving further benefits of skill and scale and making targeted investment in specific opportunities, such as online and convenience retailing.
At present, the economic context remains unfavourable with continued recession and austerity in all of our markets the Republic of Ireland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia.
Long term, these remain fundamentally attractive markets for Tesco both as growth markets and as markets where multichannel retailing is still in its infancy.
In China, Turkey and India, which are exciting long-term growth opportunities, we will push on but carefully adopting a steadier pace of growth that is, importantly, more cautious about capital allocation.
Our model in India is to work with the Tata Group, and we are unable to commit our own capital under current regulations.
However, the model works, we like our partner and we are learning a lot about the market.
We will commit new capital to China and Turkey, but only for those opportunities that pass our rigorous investment appraisal targets.
We will be committing less capital in the coming years than we have done in the past at least until we can demonstrate a significant step forward towards our objective of stronger returns.
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 9 Capitalising on the multichannel opportunity in all these markets will be a core part of our long-term planning.
We are already moving much faster to roll out grocery home shopping which is now in eight international markets and we plan to launch in China later this financial year.
Culture For a consumer business above all, what you represent is critical and it is right that we should be responsive and open about our Values and what we stand for.
We should actively manage them just as we manage other parts of our business.
We have completed a thorough review, looking at whether our Core Purpose and Values are all that we need in this new world and at a time of change.
We have concluded that we need to encourage some changes to ensure it is clear to everyone at Tesco and beyond that we will put more back into society than we take out.
You will find a lot more about this over the page and in the Tesco and Society Report.
Today, our brand must be about more than simply function.
Its about the way we work, the values we live by, the legacy we leave.
We cant solve the worlds problems but we want Tesco to always do the right thing, to inspire and to earn trust and loyalty from all our stakeholders.
And we are putting some clear ambition into changing things for the better in areas where we can make a difference because of who and what we are: First, we are going to focus our attention on young people wherever we are in the Today, our brand must be world.
We are a major global employer, which means we understand how to provide opportunities for people in their working lives.
So we want to use that to help millions about more than simply of young people who are worried about their future and are uncertain how to get function.
Its about the way a foothold in the world of work.
we work, the values we live Second, were going to help and encourage our colleagues and customers to live healthier lives and through this help to tackle the global obesity crisis.
Third, were going to lead on the challenge of reducing food waste globally.
Waste not, want not is at the heart of Every Little Helps.
So it is natural for us to want to take a leading role in preventing the enormous quantities of food going to waste every day around the world.
I believe that by applying our skills and resources our scale to these areas, Tesco can make a difference and make things better.
Management I am delighted to say that underpinning all of our drivers of growth UK, multichannel and international is the strength of the new management team we have created.
Our new Executive Committee draws on the potential of the strongest, most experienced leaders within Tesco, complemented by some first-class external appointments in key disciplines.
I am confident that the team we now have in place has the skills, experience, creativity and drive to deliver our ambitions.
All of these changes are the result of my determination to ensure that Tesco is a company that delivers shareholder value but one that does so by delivering what matters to all our stakeholders.
Philip Clarke Chief Executive 10 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Core Purpose and Values Our Core Purpose is a clear and simple statement of what we do and what we stand for: We make what matters better, together Our Core Purpose needs to reflect how much society has Our Core Purpose is a clear and simple changed in recent years more scepticism about corporations, statement of what we do and what we stand more desire to see business demonstrate it has a purpose beyond profit, a sense that large companies should be for.
It has been the same for many years contributing more to tackling some of the big challenges.
but the time has come to update it.
The world has changed from a culture of more is better to making what matters better.
Thats why weve changed our Core Purpose this profound shift in society must be reflected in the way we think and behave as a business.
We cant solve the worlds problems but we want Tesco to always do the right thing, to inspire and to earn trust and loyalty from all of our stakeholders.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 11 Our Values help us to understand how to put this into practice: No one tries harder 1 for customers Understand customers Be first to meet their needs Act responsibly for our communities Understanding people customers, colleagues, communities and what matters to them, and then trying to make those things better, is at the heart of Tesco.
Its about listening to people and talking to them using all the tools at our disposal from Clubcard data to social media and then acting by changing and innovating to meet their needs.
We treat everyone how 2 we like to be treated Work as a team Trust and respect each other Listen, support and say thank you Share knowledge and experience We know that looking after our colleagues in a culture of trust and respect is essential to the success of Tesco.
Where colleagues feel recognised and rewarded for the work they do together, where they have the opportunity to get on and where they are supported in their development as they move through their careers in the business they in turn try their hardest for customers.
We use our scale 3 for good Creating new opportunities for millions of young people around the world Helping and encouraging our colleagues and customers to live healthier lives and through this helping to tackle the global obesity crisis Leading in reducing food waste globally Our scale means that we can provide affordable, high-quality food to people around the world and create value for customers.
We want to use this scale to create greater value for society as a whole.
In many ways we do this already, whether its by creating thousands of jobs or working with thousands of farmers to provide world-class products.
But now we want to scale up our efforts and make a positive contribution to some of the most pressing challenges facing the world.
Our new Core Purpose is: We make what matters better, And as with our Core Purpose, we have had a hard look at together.
It is true to where we came from but more relevant whether the Values are all that we need in this new world and to today and to the kind of company we want to be.
at a time of change and weve concluded that we need a new Value, one that makes it clear to everyone at Tesco and beyond Since we first introduced our Tesco Values more than a decade that we will put more back into society.
ago, they have become a vital part of our culture and an essential underpinning of our growth and success.
They ensure Our new Value is: We use our scale for good.
Tesco is now that every person at Tesco understands what is important a large company, touching millions of peoples lives every day.
about how we work together as a team and how customers are This scale gives us an opportunity to make a positive difference at the centre of what we do.
They are universal values, which to some of the biggest challenges facing the world.
Weve have helped guide our people as Tesco has grown into new set three big ambitions in areas where we can make a real markets and new countries.
contribution and create value for society as a whole.
Our new Value is also about building on the essential work we already do as a responsible corporate citizen.
12 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Vision and Strategy Wanted and needed A growing business, around the world full of opportunities We see it as essential not only to be the shop of choice Whether its food or general merchandise, books for customers but also the place people want to work, or digital entertainment, banking or eating out, our a business that communities welcome and the retailer business is full of opportunities for both customers in which every shareholder wants to invest.
We want our business to offer something new every time.
Our Vision sets out what we want to be: In any business, clear direction is vital.
Our Vision guides the direction and the decisions we take as an organisation.
Tesco is a company built around customers and colleagues, high-quality assets around the world and multiple opportunities for growth and these characteristics are central to our Vision for the business.
We want Tesco to be the most highly valued business by: the customers we serve, the communities in which we operate, our loyal and committed colleagues and of course, our shareholders.
For these things to be possible, our Vision for the business has five elements each of them describes the sort of company Tesco aspires to be.
Modern, innovative Winners locally whilst and full of ideas applying our skills globally Tescos success has always been based on trying to Retail is local because cultures, tastes, climates, regulations are understand customers needs better than anyone all different.
But the core skills that we have learned in one place else and then innovating to make their lives that little can be applied in others.
For example, setting up our grocery bit easier.
This attitude, which brought online grocery home shopping operations from scratch in eight international shopping, extended shopping hours, Finest, Everyday markets across the Group wouldnt have been possible without Value, a range of formats from Express to Extra and all what weve learned in the UK.
the other things that make us who we are is as central to our Vision now as it ever has been.
Inspiring, earning trust and loyalty from customers, our colleagues and communities We want Tesco to be a company that earns trust, not just respect, through everything we do be it our in-store shopping trip, our Price Promise, or our determination to assure customers on food quality.
We want to be a business that customers, colleagues and communities trust and are loyal to.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 13 Our Strategy reflects our priorities as the business grows and customers needs change: We have a well-established and consistent seven-part strategy for growth, which reflects the way consumer needs are changing and the increasingly global nature of our business and of course driving it forward is critical to our success over the coming years.
To grow the UK core, the largest business To grow the UK core in the Group and a key driver of sales and profit, is a priority.
Our Building a Better Tesco plan has been restoring growth to the business through a comprehensive series of improvements for customers.
We have established profitable businesses To be an outstanding in Asian and European markets.
Today, 32% of our Group sales and 29% of profits are international retailer made internationally and our goal now is in stores and online to take the performance of these businesses to higher levels.
Food is our heritage but as the business To be as strong in has grown and diversified over recent years, we have added an ever-wider range of everything we sell products and services in-store and online, as we are in food bringing Tesco value and quality to many more categories.
Consumers are increasingly spending To grow retail services a bigger proportion of their income on services whether it is in telecoms, eating in all our markets out or financial services.
In the UK, we have built some strong, successful new businesses and our ambition now is to take that experience to all of our markets.
The changes we have made to our Core To put our responsibilities Purpose and Values to reflect Tescos wider social purpose are clear signals that we put to the communities we our responsibilities to the communities we serve at the heart of serve at the heart of what we do.
what we do Brands are about giving customers To be a creator of confidence in the quality, value and reliability of the things we sell.
We aim to be a creator highly valued brands of highly valued brands across our offer, whether it is Finest, F&F or Tesco Bank.
As Tesco continues to grow and diversify we To build our team need more leaders to run the broad range of businesses, operations and support functions.
so that we create We are investing in the development of more more value leaders and a bigger, more diverse talent pool to support the growth of the Group.
S O e p p l u e e l r l o m a a r t c G i o s n r g g d e n r i n e g a s a p l r l i e o k v n s e s i L b l y e l a c s C d r n f e a o a r t b i s n o e g c i s v e m a T l u o e 14 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Business Model Our Business Model is how we put our Strategy into action: Insight Buy Core Purpose: We make what matters better, together Sell Move a n h b t l o e g c n p i e r d o l i p p u e B o r t l y e I v n e v D e s t i n o u r o f D f r e e e r v f f e f l o o o r p r u i o n c g g u n o i s u t r a t v p o o e n o m n p I l e e r s OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 15 Our core activities Like all retailers, we buy, move and sell products and services for our customers.
They rely on us to do these things consistently well and we strive to do them better, more simply and more efficiently each time.
We have convenient, well-invested store and distribution networks, with a skilled and experienced team and modern systems designed to help us do this reliably as well as growing capability and scale online.
This operational effectiveness is at the core of the Tesco business model.
Winning loyalty is also about looking constantly at ways to do things differently and innovating for customers so that our offer doesnt stand still.
Innovation comes from insight and insight starts with listening.
We try to work out what matters to customers by talking to them and the conversation goes on all the time, in all our businesses, in stores and online, whether it is through our regular customer question time sessions or social media feedback.
Customers tell us whats important to them when were doing well and, even more importantly, when were not.
Coupling that feedback with the data we get from Clubcard and the analysis we apply from dunnhumby and then acting on the result is what Tesco is all about.
The virtuous circle Striving for continuous improvement in operations and in the shopping trip, as well as staying close to customers, are fundamentals but the engine of the Tesco business model has always been a combination of scale and growth.
This remains just as true today in an environment where growth across many markets is harder to come by.
Tesco may only be as successful as a customers last shopping trip but our scale and how we use it are very important to how we create value.
Buying well and selling efficiently are essential in order to be competitive for customers.
When we combine these really well, we deliver a great offer and customers reward us with more of their business.
The more we sell, the more we are able to work with our suppliers to achieve mutually beneficial economies of scale, which in turn creates room to invest more for customers in products, categories and businesses.
This has served the business well over many decades but in our business in the UK we stepped off the virtuous circle when the recession hit.
We didnt put enough back in for customers at a time when they were under pressure and our performance and reputation felt the effect.
We recognised the need to change, and last year we chose to reduce and reset our own margin to fund substantial investment in improving the shopping trip for customers and to move the business towards stronger growth.
The key enablers The core elements of the business model have six key enablers including, for example, leveraging Group skill and scale and innovating our offer which maximise the potential of the core activities and ensure that what we do is sustainable.
Transferring know-how, new systems and processes around the Group has become a regular part of how we do things based on the principle of invent once, deploy everywhere.
As our leadership group which numbers over 500 directors gains even more experience in multiple markets, new technologies and approaches can be introduced quickly and cost-effectively.
Loyalty and own-label programmes, format expertise and online trading platforms are all current examples of Tesco leveraging Group skill and scale.
As keeping pace with changing consumer shopping patterns what they buy, how, where and when they shop becomes ever more demanding, staying close to our customers means that we are well-placed to see and to grasp the opportunities to innovate.
For example, we spend a lot of time applying new technology in-store so that we can improve the shopping experience for customers.
A good example is Scan as you Shop now in 100 stores which allows customers to scan products as they put them into the trolley, see how much they are spending as they go, and reduce their waiting time at the checkouts.
16 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Key performance indicators Group performance Growth in underlying profit before tax Return on capital employed ROCE Growth in underlying diluted earnings per share at a constant tax rate 14.5 % 12.7% 14.0 % 14.7% 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 12.7% 8.7% 12.3% 2.1% 14.5 % 7.7% 10.8% 2.6% 14.0 % Definition Definition Our underlying profit provides information Underlying diluted earnings per share EPS on the underlying trend and performance of the is the amount of underlying profit, adjusted business.
It is adjusted for a number of non-cash 11 12 12 13 for the number of shares in issue.
accounting adjustments and one-off costs.
Performance Definition Performance The fall in underlying diluted EPS reflects ROCE is a relative profit measurement that Our year-on-year performance in underlying the reduction of earnings this year.
We have demonstrates the return the business is profit before tax reflects a number of factors maintained the proposed full year dividend generating from its gross assets.
mainly our planned investment into the UK per share despite this, demonstrating our Performance business, the regulatory changes in South Korea confidence that the steps we have taken ROCE decreased during the year, reflecting and the impact of challenging economic conditions in 2012 13 will set the Group on track to our trading profit performance.
The 2011 12 figure including the US was 13.3%.
The 2011 12 figure including the US was 2.1%.
The 2011 12 figure including the US was 1.6%.
Group financial ratios Total shareholder return TSR Net indebtedness Gearing Times 4 39.6% 22.5% 2.1% 1 year 5 year 3 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 2 54.0% 40.8% 38.4% 39.6% 1 year 30.4% 0.2 % 18.7% 22.5% 1 Definition 5 year 9.5% 6.7% 3.0% 2.1% The proportion of net assets financed through Definition 07 08 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 debt rather than equity, calculated as net debt TSR is the notional annualised return from a share: divided by total equity.
Definition the percentage change in the share price, plus Net indebtedness shows debt in relation to Performance the dividends paid and reinvested.
For example, operating cashflow EBITDAR.
Debt is adjusted Our gearing remained relatively flat reflecting our five-year TSR for 2012 13 is the annualised growth net debt, calculated as net debt, the pension deficit stable debt position and our growing investment in the share price from 2007 08 and dividends paid and the net present value of lease obligations.
and reinvested in Tesco shares, as a percentage of the 2007 08 share price.
Performance Fixed charge cover Net indebtedness has risen despite a reduction Performance in net debt, due mainly to the decline in EBITDAR TSR increased this year, reflecting the effect on Times driven by our investment in the UK, the regulatory our share price of increased investor confidence impact in South Korea and challenging economic 8 since last years decision to invest significantly conditions, particularly in Central Europe.
in our customer offer in the UK.
6 4 Capital expenditure capex as % of sales Definition 2 Capex is the investment in property, plant and equipment, investment property and intangible 4.1% assets.
This is divided by Group sales inc. VAT, 07 08 08 09 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 inc. petrol to show a relative investment to sales.
Definition % Performance The number of times that our operating cash flow 8 This year we continued to reduce our rate of capital EBITDAR covers our debt obligations largely 6 investment, focusing on less capital-intensive rent and interest payments.
investments with higher returns, most notably online Performance 4 and convenience.
Our fixed charge cover decreased slightly due 2 This year our capex was 3 billion or 4.1% of sales and to the decline in EBITDAR and rent increases.
fell year-on-year in every one of our reporting segments.
0 Going forward, we intend to carefully and appropriately 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 allocate capital within a range of 3.5% to 4% of sales.
More detailed definitions for our Group performance and Group financial KPIs can be found in the glossary on the inside back cover.
All KPIs on pages 16 to 19 apart from Gearing and TSR where it is not appropriate exclude the results from our operations in Japan and the United States for 2011 12 and 2012 13, with the exception of Supplier Viewpoint, Donation of pre-tax profits to charities and good causes, and our Greenhouse gas GHG emission reporting.
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 17 Group strategy 1.
To grow the UK core UK like-for-like inc. VAT, exc.
petrol UK trading profit Definition The profit generated from the UK business in its retail operations.
2,504m 2,478m 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 2,413m 2,272m Performance 2.6% 1.0% 0.0% 0.3 % UK profits declined, reflecting the 1 billion investment into the UK business to improve Definition the shopping trip for customers.
The growth in sales from stores that have been open for at least a year.
Performance 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 We aim to continue improving like-for-like sales in 2013 14 through our Building a Better Tesco plan.
We expect the plan to continue delivering stronger like-for-like sales in 2013 14.
Customer rating of overall Definition Growth in UK online sales Definition shopping experience as Percentage of customer ratings, The year-on-year sales growth from total excellent or good measured in exit interviews.
10% Performance Performance 79% of customers find their shopping Our online businesses are performing 79% experience excellent or good, and 98% well and we are pleased with the UK sales 3% improvement find it reasonable, good or excellent.
Our largest online business, on last year Through our UK Plan we have been grocery home shopping, saw increased improving customers shopping sales growth of 12.8%, driven in part by Source: Marketing Sciences.
experiences and this focus will continue the success of our Grocery Click & Collect in 2013 14. roll-out and the launch of our Delivery Saver subscription scheme.
To be an outstanding international retailer in stores and online International trading profit Proportion of customers pleased with their Growth in international shopping trip online sales 1,266m 95% 46.5% 990m 946m in 6 markets 749m Definition The year-on-year sales growth from our Definition international online businesses.
The number of markets where at least 95% of customers asked were very or fairly satisfied Performance 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 with their overall shopping experience the We are pleased with the growth in online sales top two ratings.
We now have online grocery Definition businesses in eight of our international markets, Performance The profit generated from our international so would expect to see sizeable growth.
We In six of our markets at least 95% of customers businesses in their retail operations.
generated over 3 billion sales online for the are very or fairly satisfied with their overall Performance Group as a whole for the first time.
shopping experience, compared to eight International trading profits declined, due to the markets last year.
We have seen a dip in some c. 100 million impact of regulatory restrictions of our Central European markets and we have in South Korea and challenging economic customer plans in place to improve the shopping conditions, particularly in Europe.
Re-presented to exclude the US.
The 2011 12 figure including the US was Source: Country customer satisfaction tracker and 1,113 million.
18 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Key performance indicators continued 3.
To be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food UK general merchandise, Definition Proportion of Definition clothing and electricals Our relative position among competitors, UK customers The average weekly proportion of UK Clubcard range image as rated by customers.
buying general customers who bought a general merchandise, merchandise, clothing or electricals item.
Performance clothing and We have maintained our leading position amongst Performance 1st electricals our supermarket peers, reflecting our efforts to The proportion of customers buying general supermarket create a compelling general merchandise range merchandise, clothing and electricals has remained in-store, combined with the strengths of our online broadly similar to last year.
We continue to see Source: Marketing Sciences.
subdued demand for discretionary items.
International general Definition Proportion Definition merchandise, clothing and The number of international markets where we of general The proportion, by sales, of general merchandise, electricals range image are ranked first or second by customers for our merchandise, clothing and electricals we buy together, through general merchandise range.
clothing and our Group Commercial function.
electricals sourced Performance Performance as a Group We are ranked first, or joint first, for our general Our performance on this measure is similar 9 merchandise range image in eight of these nine to last year, despite challenging economic markets 1st markets.
This is an improvement on 2011 12 conditions holding back general merchandise 26% or 2nd place when customers ranked us first, or equal first, and electricals sales.
in six markets, and reflects the strength of our Source: Country image tracker.
clothing and general merchandise offers.
To grow retail services in all our markets Bank profit Definition Trading profit Profit excluding legacy Trading profit measures the profit generated by Tesco Bank in its operations.
It excludes income and fair value the one-off impact of an increasing provision for customer redress payments including releases 264m Payment Protection Insurance PPI.
225m Performance 191m Trading profit fell by 15 % impacted by the unwinding of the fair value provision an 158m 140m accounting adjustment made at the time of acquisition in 2008 and the run-off in legacy income from the Banks insurance distribution arrangement with Direct Line Group, which terminated last year.
Before these items, profits grew well and are up 13%, with a particularly pleasing performance in customer lending.
To put our responsibilities to the communities we serve at the heart of what we do Reduction in CO2e emissions from existing stores Greenhouse gas GHG emission reporting This is a new addition to our Annual Report ahead of the upcoming UK legislation on mandatory 09 10 10 11 11 12 12 13 greenhouse gas GHG emission reporting that we expect to come into force later this year.
This year our carbon footprint was 5.75 million tonnes of CO2e.
Our overall carbon intensity 8.5% 4.6% 3.9% 4.9% has decreased by 30% since 2006 07.
For more information on our carbon targets, see the Tesco and Society Report, available online at www.
Definition The year-on-year reduction in greenhouse gas emissions GHG emissions data for period 25 February 2012 to 23 February 2013 per square foot of sales area from existing stores built before Global tonnes of CO2e 2006 07.
Base year 2006 07 2011 12 2012 13 Performance Scope 1 1,390,756 1,465,494 1,418,798 We reduced the CO2e emissions from our stores built before March 2006 by 4.9% compared to last year, exceeding our target Scope 2 2,790,259 3,587,747 3,764,068 of 3.5%, helped by our continued focus across the Group on Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity kg CO2e sq ft 51.66 36.47 35.12 reducing refrigerant gas leakage.
Last year, this KPI included of stores and DCs distribution centres DCs in addition to existing stores.
Using Scope 3 320,510 524,639 566,941 this definition, our performance this year is a 4.5% reduction.
Total gross emissions 4,501,525 5,577,880 5,749,807 From next year, we will be measuring the cumulative reduction in CO2e across all of our stores and DCs against a 2006 07 Renewable energy exported to the grid 829 baseline no matter when they were built.
This will simplify our Total net emissions 4,501,525 5,577,880 5,748,978 target and is consistent with our 2020 goal to achieve a 50% Overall net carbon intensity total net emissions 55.62 40.25 38.96 reduction in emissions per square foot.
At the end of 2012 13, kg CO2e sq ft of stores and DCs we had achieved a reduction of 32.5% towards this goal.
We have calculated our carbon footprint according to the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol.
These figures have been restated to exclude emissions from existing We follow the operational control approach and use emission factors from Defra DECCs GHG Conversion DCs and from our US operations.
For more information on our carbon targets and how we calculate This change was set out in the 2011 12 CR report and the previous our carbon footprint, including reporting standards, the definition of Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, and ERMs years figures are adjusted accordingly.
Additional information can be independent carbon assurance statement, see www.
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 19 Supplier Viewpoint Definition Donation of pre-tax profits Definition The percentage of positive scores from to charities and good causes Our contribution to charities and good our annual survey of suppliers, Supplier causes through direct donations, cause-related 71% Viewpoint, when we ask whether Tesco marketing, gifts-in-kind, staff time and treats them with respect.
Performance Performance We were just behind our stretching target We have donated 78.1 million to charities and of 74% and we are confident that we good causes this year, compared to 74.6 million have good plans in place to improve our in 2011 12. performance in 2013 14 and beyond.
As a proportion of statutory profit before tax We know that we will only succeed our donations represent 4.0% an increase if we have strong relationships with on last years figure of 1.9% reflecting the decline our suppliers.
We are launching a new in profits this year.
This equates to 2.2% of Commercial Food Support Office and underlying profit before tax, similar to 1.9% on simplifying our systems to make it easier the same basis last year.
We expect to maintain for suppliers to do business with us.
a broadly similar level of contributions going We will work more closely with suppliers forward with the percentage proportion returning to develop joint business plans and to our usual historical levels in the coming years.
recognise success through our Supplier Total cash donations for 2012 13 were Values Awards.
To be a creator of highly valued brands Customer loyalty Definition Group-wide own-label Definition The number of markets where we are participation Own-label sales as a proportion of total Group placed first or second for the proportion sales.
Own-label sales include Tesco brands such 8 of customers who do over 50% of their as F&F, Finest or Venture brands and unbranded shopping with a single retailer.
Tesco Bank and Tesco markets 1st Mobile are not included.
Tesco own-label or 2nd place Performance Building customer loyalty is at the heart brands Performance of Tesco and we are already ranked Group own-label participation was stable in the first in seven of our markets.
Improving the range and quality of our Source: Market research GFK, Ipsos, Kantar.
important indicator of the strength of own-label products is an important part of our plan the Tesco brand.
We earn our customers to improve the shopping trip for customers in the loyalty by delivering a great shopping UK.
We built on the Everyday Value relaunch early experience and rewarding them for their in 2012 13 with range additions in September and custom.
We now have loyalty schemes made significant improvements in the core Tesco in each of our markets.
own-label range of products throughout the year.
The strategy of improving our Tesco brands will continue in 2013 14.
To build our team so that we create more value Colleague retention Definition Colleagues being trained Definition The proportion of colleagues with over for their next role The proportion of colleagues who are on one years service who have worked for development programmes training for their 91% Tesco in the UK throughout the year.
5.8% in the UK Performance Performance across the Group Our retention rate in the UK remains Giving our colleagues the opportunity to get strong, up from 90% in 2011 12.
This on at Tesco is very important to us and we are reflects our focus on creating good jobs proud of our commitment to this area.
This KPI and long-term careers, with excellent measures the number of colleagues being trained benefits and career development for their next job through our dedicated Options opportunities.
It is also a reflection of programme and we narrowly missed this years our determined and ongoing efforts increased target of 6% of colleagues.
This measure to make what matters to our colleagues doesnt include other development activities such better.
For example, through our as apprenticeships, A-level Entry Programmes and UK Plan we have made significant our Advanced Leadership Programme.
Including investments in training and equipment these opportunities, almost 7% of colleagues for our colleagues, supporting them across the Group benefited this year.
In addition, to do their jobs.
we have also heavily invested in our colleagues in the UK this year through our Building a Better Tesco plan.
More than 250,000 colleagues in-store have received customer service training, with additional technical training for 36,000 colleagues.
20 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Financial review As we adapt to ensure we deliver on our objective to be the best multichannel retailer for our customers, we are realistic in our approach to growth and returns.
We can therefore offer clarity to shareholders about how we intend to deliver an appropriate balance of growth and returns in the years ahead.
Group results 2012 13 on a continuing operations basis Growth actual Growth constant 52 weeks ended 23 February 2013 2012 13 exchange rates exchange rates Group sales inc. VAT 72,363m 1.3% 2.5% Sales growth exc.
VAT, inc. IFRIC 13 Group trading profit 3,453m 13.0 % 12.3 % UK 2,272m 8.3 % 8.3 % Asia 661m 10.3 % 9.8 % Europe 329m 37.8 % 33.3 % Tesco Bank 191m 15.1 % 15.1 % Laurie McIlwee Chief Financial Officer Underlying profit before tax 3,549m 14.5 % 14.0 % Underlying diluted earnings 35.97p 14.0 % n a per share ROCE adjusted for one-off items 12.7% 200 bp n a Capex 3.0bn down down 72.4bn 19.0% 18.1% Group sales Statutory profit before tax includes the following one-off items: UK property write-down 804 m Goodwill impairment Poland, Czech Republic, Turkey 495 m Increased provision for PPI Tesco Bank inc. H1 30 m 115 m Statutory profit before tax 1,960m 51.5 % n a 3.5bn United States treated as discontinued, with restructuring and other one-off costs of 1.0 billion.
Group trading profit Group sales inc. VAT exclude the accounting impact of IFRIC 13.
Underlying diluted EPS growth calculated on a constant tax rate basis: 10.8 % at actual tax rates.
Group results and strategic update It has been a year in which we have taken decisive action 35.97p to focus our efforts on those markets where we can have a Underlying diluted earnings leadership position.
We exited Japan and launched our strategic per share review of the United States, while at the same time taking a more measured approach to our growth in China.
We also set an appropriate pace of migration for the Bank, keeping it focused on the needs of our most loyal customers.
Most 14.76p importantly, we have begun the essential process of getting Full year dividend per the UK business back on track, making sure we protect and build share maintained on one of the most important leadership positions we have.
Group trading profit declined by 13.0 %, reflecting our investment in the UK, the impact of regulatory changes in South Korea and the challenging economic conditions in Europe.
This trading performance coupled with reduced JV income and higher net finance costs led to a decline in Visit www.
com ar2013 to hear more Group underlying profit before tax of 14.5 %.
from Laurie McIlwee and other members of the leadership team.
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 21 Group statutory profit before tax declined by 51.5 % to is appropriate for the foreseeable future and any 1,960million due to the impact of three main one-off charges: outperformance will be reinvested in driving additional improvements in our customer offer.
UK property write-down of 804 million, following an in-depth review of our property pipeline in the context of Asia our fundamentally different approach to new space and Our Asia performance was in line with expectations and was our announcement in April 2012 that we would be reducing dominated by the South Korean regulatory changes concerning the level of new space growth in the UK going forward: trading hours.
These changes held back headline numbers, and the impact on trading profit was broadly in line with our Goodwill impairment of 495 million, reflecting the impact 100 million guidance, with significant levels of Sunday store of differing growth prospects in todays environment for the closures throughout the second half and considerable uncertainty businesses we acquired in Poland, the Czech Republic and in the market about exactly which stores would be closed and Turkey in the mid 1990s to early 2000s: and when, impacting operations even when stores were able to Increase of 115 million in our provision for potential open.
Following the passing of the legislation in January this Payment Protection Insurance claims against Tesco Bank.
year, the situation seems more certain, with more consistent store closures expected on alternate Sundays.
As such, we Based on our progress so far with our strategic review of Fresh expect the full-year effect of the regulations, combined with the & Easy, we have confirmed that the outcome of the review will extension of 24-hour trading restrictions to between midnight be an exit from the United States.
The results of our business and 10am, to lead to an incremental impact of around there, in addition to those of our business in Japan, have been 40 million in 2013 14. classified as discontinued operations in these results.
Asia results 2012 13 Segmental results UK Actual rates Constant rates It is a year since we unveiled our six-part plan to get the UK m % growth % growth business back on top form.
The UK is absolutely fundamental to Asia sales 12,317m 5.9% 6.1% the success of the Group, which is why this was our number one Asia revenue exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 11,479m 6.0% 6.2% priority for the year, and Im pleased to say the plan is very much Asia trading profit 661m 10.3 % 9.8 % on track.
Trading margin trading profit revenue 5.76% 105 bp 102 bp We have made the investment as planned and it has led to a Exc.
Japan clear improvement in performance, both in absolute terms and In Thailand, like-for-like sales grew by 3.1% and we continued relative to the market.
Total sales rose by 2.6% excluding petrol, and like-for-like performance improved during the course of the to gain market share.
We benefited from a strong opening year, with a particularly encouraging result at Christmas.
programme, including almost 300 Express stores and we launched our first dotcom grocery operation in Bangkok in February.
UK results 2012 13 We have adopted a more cautious stance in China.
We still see m % growth an excess amount of new space being opened in the market UK sales 48,216m 1.8% ahead of customer demand and we have moderated our pace of development accordingly, opening just 12 new stores this year UK revenue exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 43,579m 1.8% and closing five underperforming stores as part of our increased UK revenue exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 2.6% focus on our three strongest regions.
UK trading profit 2,272m 8.3 % Trading margin trading profit revenue 5.21% 58 bp Europe Whilst our markets in Europe remain fundamentally attractive, When we laid out our plans last year, we described the impact our performance this year was disappointing.
of the investment in terms of a rebasing of our trading margin Clearly, we faced significant headwinds throughout the year, as to 5.2% and the progress we have made in the UK has been achieved whilst delivering a margin absolutely in line with macroeconomic uncertainties continued to impact businesses.
This had a particularly marked impact on our general merchandise businesses across the region, holding back our overall like-forThe most important judge of progress is the customer and we like sales performance.
introduced a new way of measuring customer perceptions back in July our customer viewpoint.
This measures real customer Europe results 2012 13 feedback in all of our stores on a regular and frequent basis, across Actual rates Constant rates 12 aspects of their shopping trip.
Pleasingly, every one of these m % growth % growth aspects improved throughout the second half of the year.
This underpins our confidence that the underlying improvement we Europe sales 10,809m 4.9 % 2.1% have seen in our trading performance is driven by the changes Europe revenue 9,319m 5.5 % 1.4% exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 we have made for customers.
Europe trading profit 329m 37.8 % 33.3 % While there are a number of drivers that could enable us to Trading margin trading profit revenue 3.53% 183 bp 183 bp improve overall UK margins, we believe the new base of 5.2% 22 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Financial review continued Our performance in Hungary and Slovakia, where we enjoy of this contact, it has become necessary to increase our provision two of our strongest positions, has proved more resilient to for compensation by 85 million in the second half.
In addition the economic headwinds.
While our profits in Hungary to the 30 million provision in the first half, this takes us to continued to be held back by the crisis tax this year, this will a 115 million one-off charge.
no longer be applied from the start of our new financial year.
Group balance sheet In some markets such as the Czech Republic and Poland, we Net debt reduced by 0.2 billion year-on-year, despite the saw increased competitive activity, with those retailers focused trading profit impact and increased working capital, mainly due on discount small formats faring much better than those like to significantly reduced capital expenditure and a small increase us with a greater proportion of larger stores.
Our own smaller in property proceeds.
The working capital increase was largely format stores have performed better than the business as a as a result of regulatory impacts in a number of markets and the whole, and our dotcom operations now in 13 cities in these shortening of order lead times for general merchandise which markets alone have grown strongly since launch.
We have faced particularly intense competition in Turkey, in a Our return on capital employed, on a continuing operations year in which we have retrenched from our strategy of pursuing basis and prior to the impact of one-off charges, is 12.7%.
This large store expansion to the east of our existing business.
Like is a 200 basis point decline on returns calculated on a similar many other businesses in the country, we faced intense cost-price basis for last year, mainly reflecting the trading profit performance.
inflation and the impact of this was exacerbated by a number We continued to see strong investor demand for our property of one-off, historic issues.
The resulting losses contributed to during the year.
We launched the Tesco Lotus Retail Growth our shortfall versus expectations for European performance.
Freehold and Leasehold Property Fund along with a number All of our businesses undertake a value in use test each year to of transactions in the UK and South Korea, contributing to profits justify the carrying value of goodwill.
Those businesses acquired arising on property-related items of 370 million.
The market inEurope in the 1990s and early 2000s unfortunately face a more value of our property across the Group currently exceeds difficult market today and different growth prospects as a result.
This led to a write-down in the value of acquired goodwill for Since becoming Chief Financial Officer I have made it a priority our businesses in Poland, the Czech Republic and Turkey.
to improve our debt metrics.
Resetting the UK margin, regulatory Our priority in all of these markets is to get the businesses challenges in South Korea and a disappointing profit performance focused on driving underlying performance and it is for this in Europe have stalled the improvements we have made to date.
reason that we will only open 400,000 sq ft of net new selling It is a high priority for the Group to maintain a strong investment space in the year ahead.
Our target on net indebtedness remains Tesco Bank unchanged and it should be achieved within the next couple We were pleased to complete the final stages of migration of of years.
Tesco Bank early in the financial year and to be able to get back Fixed charge cover is more challenging because our gross debt to focusing on marketing our existing products.
Our programme has long maturity periods.
We have 2 billion of debt that we of new products resumed in August with mortgages and more can potentially retire over the next three years.
Our lower level recently, our ISA range.
of sale and leasebacks will help slow down the rising rent bill.
We made progress through the year in banking products, with Both of these will benefit fixed charge cover.
Our improved cash good growth in both customer accounts and balances.
Our flow growth will help improve retained cash flow to adjusted insurance business was held back by a very challenging market, net debt, a key credit rating measure, underpinning our with strong downward price pressure in motor insurance.
commitment to maintain a strong investment grade rating.
Throughout this period, we focused on ensuring we offer the Looking forward our approach to growth and returns best products and prices to our loyal Clubcard customers.
The actions we have taken over the last two years have removed a number of significant barriers to progress and underpin our Tesco Bank results 2012 13 more disciplined approach to capital allocation.
m % growth As we adapt to ensure we deliver on our objective to be the best Tesco Bank revenue exc.
impact of IFRIC 13 1,021m 2.2 % multichannel retailer for our customers, we are realistic in our Tesco Bank trading profit 191m 15.1 % approach to growth and returns.
We can therefore offer clarity Trading margin trading profit revenue 18.71% 284 bp to shareholders about how we intend to deliver an appropriate balance of growth and returns in the years ahead.
In recent years, the Banks profit has been impacted by a couple We are managing the business in order to: of non-trading factors the first, fair value releases and the second, the run-off of our legacy insurance agreement with Direct Line Generate positive free cash flow Group.
Before these, profits grew well and are up 13% with Ensure a disciplined allocation of capital within a range a particularly pleasing performance in customer lending.
of 3.5% to 4% of sales Maintain a strong investment grade credit rating In line with the rest of the industry, we have been proactively consulting more widely with our customers on PPI.
In light BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 23 We are therefore allocating our capital to achieve three We are determined to achieve this growth in a balanced way clear priorities: and we see the application of our financial disciplines as an important part of ensuring it is delivered in a way that supports 1.
Continuing to invest in a strong UK business strong, sustainable and attractive returns going forward.
Establishing multichannel leadership in all of our markets 3.
Pursuing disciplined international growth We will tightly control our capex.
There will likely be a very small increase in 2013 14, as we push on at pace with our refresh plans This means that, in the current economic environment, investors in the UK.
Following this, we will move quickly into and then can expect us to deliver: down through the range we have set out of 4% down to 3.5% of Mid-single digit trading profit growth sales.
Importantly this will enable us to move to a position where Return on capital employed within a range of 12% to 15% we can produce free cash flow without the historic requirement Dividend growth, broadly in line with underlying earnings, for property proceeds.
with a target cover of more than 2 times This is clearly a significant change from our historic cash flow shape.
For a number of years, we relied on property proceeds to fund our investment, as capex exceeded available cash.
We are Our approach to growth and returns getting close to a position where capex is broadly equivalent to available cash, removing our reliance on these proceeds.
From Financial disciplines Guiderails then on, available cash grows and exceeds capex, giving us much Trading profit growth greater flexibility from a cash point of view.
Generate positive free Mid-single digit cash flow Protecting our strong position in the UK is still one of our highest priorities.
The best returns now are from refreshing our existing Sustainable ROCE Allocate capital within range stores and investing in the broader multichannel opportunities 12% to 15% range of 4% down to 3.5% of sales of convenience and online.
We will not invest in those large-store schemes where we see unacceptable returns.
We will, of course, Dividend growth Maintain a strong investment continue our process of making our existing large stores even In line with underlying EPS grade credit rating Target cover of more than 2 times more compelling destinations with the repurposing of space.
Our next priority is Asia where modern retail is still very We will update on our progress in the context of these objectives underdeveloped.
We will continue to strengthen our positions as part of our future results announcements.
in Thailand, Malaysia and South Korea.
In China, we still see a huge opportunity, although our approach going forward is more As we described earlier, the fundamental change in our approach measured, focused on stand-alone retail sites in the three regions to new space also has implications for our sale and leaseback where we have critical mass and good margins.
We will build out programme.
Two years ago, we reviewed the programme and the remaining 13 Lifespace malls, but are not committing capital announced a steady reduction in the level of divestments, in to any new freehold investments beyond these.
order to ensure that any property profits released were matched to the level of new profit created by development activities.
Finally, in Europe, our large-store networks are largely complete Given that we have significantly reduced the amount of these and we are effectively at a maintenance level of capex.
Specific activities going forward, we believe that it is appropriate to capital investments will be considered, but these will be about accelerate the scaling back of the sale and leaseback programme, improving the assets we have and expanding in low capital such that it is unlikely to make a material contribution after the formats such as the internet and convenience.
More of our capital will be going into already high-returning Our reported underlying profit measure currently includes these businesses and into driving forward returns in our immature property profits and related items, and therefore its growth businesses.
over the next few years would be held back by this accelerated This allocation will enable us to produce a steady improvement reduction.
We will therefore disclose and adjust for this impact in return on capital employed from the current base, within when using underlying earnings per share as the basis for our a range of 12% to 15%.
In doing so, we will better align dividend growth The approach I have laid out above provides appropriate and to the key targeted profit performance measure for the business.
realistic objectives for the business.
As we deliver our objective Growth has always been a central part of the investment case of being the leading multichannel retailer, we are determined for Tesco.
To be clear, it is still at the core of the investment to do even better for customers and for shareholders.
case, but it is now a sustainable level of growth a growth that enables us to deliver improving returns and a much stronger level of cash generation.
The guidance we are sharing is for mid-single digit trading profit growth.
This takes into account the structurally changing retailing environment and the lower growth outlook for economies and consumer spending around the world.
Laurie McIlwee Chief Financial Officer 24 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Board of Directors 1 Sir Richard Broadbent 2 Philip Clarke 4 Patrick Cescau Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Sir Richard Broadbent joined the Board of Philip Clarke was appointed to the Board on Patrick Cescau was appointed a NonTesco PLC on 2 July 2011 and was appointed 16 November 1998.
Prior to his appointment executive Director on 1 February 2009 and Chairman on 30 November 2011.
He started as CEO in March 2011 he was Asia, Europe became Senior Independent Director in July his career at HM Treasury before joining & IT Director.
Philip began his career with 2010: he is also a member of the Audit, Schroders in 1986.
In 2000, Sir Richard Tesco in-store during 1974 and continued Nominations and Corporate Responsibility was appointed Executive Chairman of HM to work part-time through school and Committees.
Patrick was Group Chief Customs and Excise.
He also joined the university.
After graduating with a degree Executive of Unilever from 2005 to 2008, Management Board of the UK Civil Service, in Economic History, he joined the Tesco and prior to this he was Chairman of Unilever serving in both roles until 2003.
In 2003 he Management Training Programme and plc, Vice Chairman of Unilever NV and Foods was appointed to the Board of Barclays plc, then spent nine years in store management Director.
He was also a Non-executive becoming Senior Independent Director in before holding a number of roles in commercial Director of Pearson plc from 2002 until 2012 September 2004 and Deputy Chairman in and marketing.
In 1994 he was appointed and became Senior Independent Director in 2010.
He stepped down from the Board of Stores Director and a year later promoted 2010.
Patrick was appointed Non-executive Barclays on 30 September 2011.
Sir Richard to Regional Managing Director, before Chairman of InterContinental Hotels Group joined the Board of Arriva plc in July 2004 joining the Tesco PLC Board as Supply Chain on 1 January 2013 and is also a Nonand served as Chairman from November Director and a year later adding Information executive Director of International Airlines 2004 until 2010.
He is also a trustee of the Technology to his responsibilities.
He was appointed a Chevalier fide la charity Relate.
He is a trustee 3 Laurie McIlwee of the Leverhulme Trust and Chairman of Chief Financial Officer the St Jude India Childrens Charity, and Laurie McIlwee was appointed to the Board Committee membership was formerly a Director at INSEAD.
on 27 January 2009 as Chief Financial from 23 February 2013 Officer.
He began his career with Tesco in 5 Gareth Bullock Nominations Committee 2000 as UK Finance Director and after four Non-executive Director Audit Committee years, became Distribution Director.
Prior to Gareth Bullock was appointed a NonRemuneration Committee Tesco, Laurie worked for PepsiCo in a variety executive Director on 3 July 2010 and was Corporate Responsibility Committee of roles including Vice President of Business appointed to the Board of Tesco Bank as Planning at Frito-Lay International, Chief a Non-executive Director effective from Financial Officer and Business Change 17 July 2012.
He is also a member of the Director at Frito-Lay Europe, Chief Financial Audit Committee.
Gareth was Group Officer of Walkers Snack Foods and Finance Executive Director of Standard Chartered plc Director of PepsiCo Eastern Europe.
Laurie until his retirement in April 2010 and was also is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of responsible for the Groups risk and special Management Accountants and a member asset management function.
He is Senior of The Hundred Group of Finance Directors.
Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc, a Non-executive Director of Global Market Group Ltd and a member of the Advisory Council of Good Governance Group G3.
Gareth has been a trustee of the British Council since October 2012.
2 4 6 9 5 10 BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 25 6 Stuart Chambers 8 Ken Hanna 10 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Stuart Chambers was appointed a NonKen Hanna was appointed a Non-executive Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker was executive Director and Chairman of the Director on 1 April 2009.
He is a member appointed a Non-executive Director on Remuneration Committee on 3 July 2010 of the Nominations and Remuneration 1 January 2009 and is also a member of the and was appointed to the Board of Tesco Committees and became Audit Committee Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration Bank as a Non-executive Director effective Chairman on 5 October 2012.
She was a Director General at from 17 July 2012.
He is also a member of the previously Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury the Ministry of Transport in the Netherlands Nominations Committee.
He was Group Chief plc from 2004 until 2009 and prior to that an from 2001 to 2007 and a Non-executive Executive of NSG Group from 2008 to 2009.
Operating Partner of Compass Partners and Director of the Dutch Land Registry and Prior to NSGs acquisition of Pilkington plc in CFO and then CEO of Dalgety plc.
Ken has Ordnance Survey from 2008 to 2012.
Prior 2006, Stuart was Group Chief Executive of also been CFO of United Distillers and Avis to this, she held senior positions at Quest Pilkington plc.
Previously he held a number Europe plc.
He is currently Chairman of International and McKinsey & Co. Jacqueline of senior roles at Pilkington plc, the Mars Inchcape plc, Aggreko plc and Shooting Star is a trustee of the Van Leer Group Foundation Corporation and Royal Dutch Shell.
Ken is a fellow of the Institute of and the Vice Chair of the Advisory Board to 2006 to 2013 he was a Non-executive Chartered Accountants.
the Rotterdam School of Management and Director of Smiths Group plc and from was appointed a Chevalier fide la Lgion 9 Deanna Oppenheimer 2010 to 2013 a Non-executive Director of dhonneur in 2006.
Jacqueline is also a NonNon-executive Director Manchester Airport Group plc.
Stuart was executive Director of Vivendi and Fiat Industrial.
Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed a appointed a Non-executive Director of Rexam Non-executive Director on 1 March 2012 11 Jonathan Lloyd plc on 1 February 2012 and Non-executive and was appointed to the Board of Tesco Company Secretary Chairman effective from 22 February 2012.
Bank as a Non-executive Director effective Jonathan Lloyd was appointed Company 7 Olivia Garfield from 17 July 2012.
She is also a member Secretary to the Board in December 2006.
Non-executive Director of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
He joined Tesco as Deputy Company Olivia Garfield Liv was appointed a NonDeanna held various senior roles between Secretary and Corporate Secretariat Director executive Director on 1 April 2013.
She has 2005 and 2011 at Barclays, initially as in April 2005 from Freshfields Bruckhaus worked for BT since 2002 and has been CEO Chief Executive of UK Retail and Business Deringer.
Jonathan is also Company of Openreach since 2011.
Prior to that she Banking, Vice Chair of Global Retail Banking Secretary of Tesco Bank.
carried out a range of senior strategic and and also as Chief Executive of Europe Retail operational roles, including Group Director and Business Banking.
Prior to this, she was Strategy, Portfolio and Regulation, Marketing Director and later President of Managing Director Commercial and Brands, Consumer Banking of Washington Mutual.
Global Services and Vice President UK She has also served as a Non-executive Customer Services, Global Services.
From Director of Catellus and Plum Creek Timber.
1998 to 2002 Liv worked for Accenture as Deanna is currently CEO of CameoWorks a consultant in the Communications and LLC and a Non-executive Director at NCR High Tech Market Unit, designing and Corporation and at AXA.
implementing business change solutions across a number of industry sectors.
3 7 1 8 11 26 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Executive Committee Our Executive Committee oversees the implementation of the strategy set by the Board.
Over the past year we have strengthened the Committee, building a team with extensive UK, international and digital experience.
1 2 3 4 5 6 8 7 1 Philip Clarke 6 Gordon Fryett Group Chief Executive Group Property Director See page 24 for biography.
Gordon joined Tesco in 1969 and has held a number of roles including Operations Director, International Support Director, 2 Laurie McIlwee CEO of Republic of Ireland and UK Property Director.
He is Chief Financial Officer a Non-executive Director of Severn Trent PLC.
7 Kevin Grace 3 Matt Atkinson Group Commercial Director Chief Marketing Officer Kevin joined Tesco in 1982 and has held a number of roles Matt joined Tesco in 2011 as Group Marketing and Chief including Support Office Director, COO of South Korea, Digital Officer.
Before joining Tesco, Matt was the Global CEO of Poland and UK Property Director.
Kevin joined the CEO of Havass digital and data businesses.
Prior to this, Executive Committee in 2011 and has responsibility for Matt had a diverse background in marketing, brand and commercial practice across our markets and sourcing from agency management.
4 Chris Bush 8 Benny Higgins Managing Director UK CEO Tesco Bank Chris joined Tesco in 1982 and has held various positions Before joining Tesco Bank, Benny served as Chief Executive including Store Manager, Store Director and International Officer of Retail Business at HBOS PLC.
Between 1997 and Support Office Director.
In 2004 he relocated to South Korea 2005 Benny was Chief Executive of Retail Banking at the Royal as COO of Tesco Homeplus and later became CEO of Tesco Bank of Scotland.
He has been Chief Executive of Tesco Bank Malaysia.
In June 2010, Chris was appointed CEO of Thailand since 2008. and returned to the UK in March 2012 to take up the role of Chief Operating Officer UK.
Chris was appointed UK Managing 9 Alison Horner Director in January 2013.
Group Personnel Director Alison joined Tesco in 1999 as a Personnel Manager and 5 Jill Easterbrook was later promoted to Personnel Director for Tescos UK Managing Director Developing Businesses operations.
After eight years in stores and general management Jill joined Tesco in 2001 and has held leadership roles across roles she joined the Executive Committee in 2011 as Group a range of business areas including Retail Operations, Group Personnel Director.
Strategy, Corporate Affairs and Clothing stores and online.
In January 2013 she took up her current position as Managing Director DevelopingBusinesses.
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 27 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 10 Trevor Masters 14 Rebecca Shelley CEO Asia Group Corporate Affairs Director Trevor joined Tesco in 1979 and has held a number of roles Rebecca joined Tesco on 1 May 2012 as Group Corporate including Store Manager, Store Director, Operations Director Affairs Director.
Before joining Tesco, Rebecca was a partner at for Extras, and CEO of Central Europe.
He became CEO Brunswick LLP, where she advised a wide range of companies of Asia in 2011. on financial and corporate reputation issues.
From 2000 to 2007, Rebecca worked at Prudential, most recently as Group 11 Mike McNamara Communications Director and before that as Group Investor Chief Information Officer Relations Director.
Mike has been with Tesco since 1998, having previously worked at Accenture and BT.
He was on the Board of tesco.
com from 15 Robin Terrell its inception in 1999 through to 2006, during which time he Group Multichannel Director led the transition of tesco.
com onto a fully online platform, Robin joined Tesco in February 2013 as Group Multichannel as well as the national roll-out of the service.
Director, having worked in online retailing nearly since its inception.
From 1999 Robin worked at Amazon, ultimately as 12 Adrian Morris VP & Managing Director, with responsibility for Amazons UK Group General Counsel and French businesses.
After leaving Amazon, Robin held Adrian joined Tesco in September 2012 as Group General senior e-commerce and multichannel roles at Figleaves.
Prior to Tesco, Adrian worked at BP plc as Associate John Lewis and House of Fraser.
General Counsel for Refining and Marketing.
From 2002 to 2009, Adrian was with Centrica PLC, initially as European 16 Ken Towle General Counsel and then as General Counsel for British Gas.
Managing Director Central Europe and Turkey Ken joined Tesco in 1985 and has held a number of roles 13 Bob Robbins including various UK operations roles and CEO of Tesco China.
Group Business Improvement Director Ken joined the Executive Committee as Internet Retailing Bob joined Tesco in 1975 and has held a number of roles Director in 2011, before taking up his current role as Managing including CEO of Asia, CEO of Central Europe, Strategy and Director of Central Europe and Turkey in February 2013.
Development Director Asia and various retail, marketing and general management roles.
Prior to taking up his current 17 Jonathan Lloyd position as Group Business Improvement Director, Bob held Company Secretary the role of Chief Operating Officer UK.
28 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Summary report of the Directors Principal activity and business review The main governance challenges of the past year have been: The principal activity of the Group is retailing and associated to bed in the substantially new governance framework we activities in the UK, China, the Czech Republic, Hungary, the put in place in February 2012: Republic of Ireland, India, Malaysia, Poland, Slovakia, South to manage a significant transition in balance and size of the Korea, Thailand and Turkey.
The Group also provides retail Board, increasing its Non-executive representation relative banking and insurance services through its subsidiary, Tesco to Executive within an absolutely smaller Board: and Bank.
Following a strategic review, the Group has decided to dispose of its US operations.
The summary of the Group to judge and oversee the execution of a number of significant financials can be found on pages 33 and 34. business initiatives.
Dividends The governance framework, and perhaps more importantly The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend the corporate culture and human relationships that underpin of 10.13p per ordinary share, to be paid on 5 July 2013 to all governance frameworks, are operating as we hoped and members on the Register at the close of business on 26 April we do not judge that any further material changes are needed.
Together with the interim dividend of 4.63p per ordinary The Board now comprises ten Directors, seven of whom share paid in December 2012, the full year dividend will be excluding the Chairman are Non-executive.
This change in both maintained at 14.76p per ordinary share 2011 12: 14.76p size and balance is supporting the Board to bring a substantial Directors focus on strategic and longer-term issues.
We do not anticipate Details of the current members of the Board are shown further substantial changes in size in the foreseeable future on pages 24 to 25.
Deanna Oppenheimer and Olivia Garfield although the exact number of Directors may rise or fall slightly joined the Board as Non-executive Directors on 1 March 2012 in line with the normal process of Board development and and 1 April 2013 respectively.
Andrew Higginson and Lucy succession planning.
Neville-Rolfe retired from the Board as Executive Directors The Board is the custodian of the Companys Values and of its on 1 September 2012 and 2 January 2013 respectively.
long-term vision, and provides strategic direction and guidance Karen Cook and Ken Hydon retired from the Board as Nonfor the Company.
The Board delegates to the Group Chief executive Directors on 23 February 2013.
Richard Brasher Executive CEO the management of the day-to-day operation and Tim Mason stepped down from the Board on 15 March of the business, in accordance with appropriate risk parameters.
The Board is supported in its work by the committees noted Corporate governance in the diagram below.
The Group Executive Committee, which Our approach to governance remains unchanged from last year.
the CEO chairs, supports the CEO in carrying out his role and It begins with the recognition that it is not a set of rules but the manages the day-to-day operation of the Groups businesses.
framework supporting the core values which defines what is and The Group Executive Committee has established a number what is not acceptable.
It is an expression of the way we want to of sub-committees as noted in the diagram below which assist conduct ourselves which informs actions and decisions whether it in its work.
or not there is a specific rule for the situation, and which supports the culture and behaviours that we wish to foster.
Governance structures Board Chairman Tesco PLC Board Corporate Nominations Audit Remuneration Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee Property Social Commercial Compliance Digital Retailing People Matters Technology Strategy Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Group Committee Committee Committee BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 29 To support the governance structure there are a number of As set out in more detail in the Annual Report and Financial Group policies and processes in place.
Statements 2013, we have clearly articulated our business priorities for the foreseeable future and the financial The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring the Group has performance that shareholders can expect us to deliver in appropriate risk management and internal controls in place and the current economic environment.
We have consequently that they continue to work effectively.
The key arrangements amended the management incentives for 2013 14 to align put in place to enable the Board to discharge its responsibility them with the new strategic priorities and financial parameters.
and for all the members of the Board to satisfy themselves with the integrity of the Groups financial information, financial The changes for 2013 14 are summarised below.
controls and risk management systems are detailed in the Annual bonus corporate governance section of the Annual Report and The annual bonus will be less heavily weighted towards shortFinancial Statements 2013. term profits but linked to a more balanced scorecard of financial, We continue to be committed to having a constructive dialogue strategic and operational measures.
However, bonuses will only with shareholders to ensure that we understand what is important be paid if profits have grown.
to them and enable clear communication of our position.
The profit measure used will be based on Trading Profit rather We also engage with other stakeholders, including colleagues, than Underlying Profit.
Trading Profit does not include property NGOs, charities, leading academics, politicians and activists profits, which reflects our fundamentally different approach to give us valuable insight into how we are currently perceived.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out We have replaced UK ROCE with Group Working Capital.
principles and specific provisions on how a company should be The Committee feels that ROCE is an important capital directed and controlled to achieve standards of good corporate efficiency measure but is better suited to long-term incentives.
The Code was revised in September 2012, with Management have more line-of-sight and control of Working minor changes including a greater focus on a companys Capital over the short term.
For the 2012 13 financial year, the The measures for customer service and colleague engagement Company is required to report against the 2010 version of will reflect overall Group performance rather than just the UK the Code.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
as used in previous years.
The Board considers that Tesco PLC has complied in all material Long Term Performance Share Plan respects with the 2010 version of the Code for the whole of the We have amended the performance targets on the long-term financial year ended 23 February 2013.
Performance Share Plan to align with the new financial A full corporate governance statement is contained in the parameters described in the Annual Report and Financial Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013.
To reflect the lower performance threshold Remuneration at which awards may vest, we have also lowered the amount In an important year for Tesco, the Remuneration Committee of the award that vests.
This ensures incentives remain aligned with the strategy while striking a balance between creating longhas sought to ensure that the Companys remuneration term value for shareholders and rewarding management fairly.
arrangements continue to support the strategic direction of the business, and that the remuneration decisions we have The calculation of underlying Earnings Per Share used to assess made are fair and comprehensible to the outside world.
performance will exclude property profits to reflect our different approach to space.
The year just ended was a challenging one.
A number of important decisions were taken during the year, such as Whilst it has been a difficult year, we are making progress against reinvesting profits back into the UK business to improve the our plan to Build a Better Tesco.
The Remuneration Committee shopping experience for customers, and deciding to exit the US is confident that the changes above will better support the and write down the value of the Fresh & Easy business.
These business strategy leaving the management team to get on decisions have had financial consequences this year but were with the job at hand and make what matters better, together.
necessary to set the business on the right track to deliver realistic, In carrying out its duties, the Remuneration Committee gives full sustainable and attractive returns over the long term.
We also consideration to best practice.
The Committee was constituted faced external challenges which impacted our performance, most and operated throughout the period in accordance with the notably the regulatory restrictions on opening hours in South principles outlined in the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Korea and the difficult economic conditions in Central Europe.
Authority derived from the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As a consequence, our financial performance fell short of where A summary of Directors emoluments and interests is set out we wanted it to be, which in turn resulted in no annual bonus on pages 30 and 31.
Further details can be found in the full being paid to the senior management team for 2012 13.
The Directors Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and long-term incentives that were due to vest this year also lapsed Financial Statements 2013. as performance targets were not met.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this demonstrates that our remuneration policy is effective in aligning pay with performance.
30 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Summary report of the Directors continued Directors emoluments Fixed emoluments Performance related emoluments Loss of office Short-term Short-term Total Total 2 Salary Benefits cash deferred shares 2012 13 2011 12 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 1 Richard Brasher 1,302 1,302 1,138 Philip Clarke 1,114 57 1,171 1,155 1 Andrew Higginson 459 29 488 1,149 1, 2 Tim Mason 691 400 1,682 2,773 1,634 Laurie McIlwee 863 54 917 1,137 1 Lucy Neville-Rolfe 613 67 680 895 Non-executive Directors Sir Richard Broadbent 625 57 682 281 3 Gareth Bullock 141 141 82 Patrick Cescau 132 132 120 3 Stuart Chambers 171 171 100 1 Karen Cook 82 82 82 Ken Hanna 112 112 94 1 Ken Hydon 100 100 100 1, 3 Deanna Oppenheimer 138 138 Jacqueline Tammenoms 94 94 82 Bakker Total 5,335 664 2,984 8,983 8,049 Appointments and leavers 1 The figures in this table are from the date of appointment or until the date that each Director ceased to be a Director of Tesco PLC, including any payments receivable in connection with the termination of qualifying services.
Sir David Reid retired from the Board in 2011 12.
He continued to have the ongoing benefit of health insurance and the use of a company car and chauffeur for one year after leaving with a net value of 66,000.
The gross value of these benefits is 132,000.
David Potts stepped down from the Board in 2011 12.
He did not receive any payments or benefits outside his normal contractual arrangements but continued to be employed by the Group until 30 June 2012 and was paid a salary of 346,000 and received benefits of 15,000 during this period.
Richard Brasher stepped down from the Board on 15 March 2012.
He did not receive any payments or benefits outside his normal contractual arrangements but continued to be employed by the Group until 31 July 2012 and was paid a salary of 386,000 and received benefits of 49,000 during this period.
In line with his contract Richard Brasher was paid liquidated damages of 1,302,000 which are shown in the table above.
Andrew Higginson retired from the Board on 1 September 2012.
He did not receive any payments or benefits outside his normal contractual arrangements.
Tim Mason stepped down from the Board on 5 December 2012.
In line with his contract Tim Mason was paid liquidated damages of 1,682,000 as shown in the table above.
Lucy Neville-Rolfe retired from the Board on 2 January 2013.
She did not receive any payments or benefits outside her normal contractual arrangements.
Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed on 1 March 2012.
Karen Cook and Ken Hydon retired from the Board on 23 February 2013.
Benefits 2 Benefits are made up of car benefits, chauffeurs, disability and health insurance, staff discount and membership at clubs.
T im Masons benefits comprise a pro rata net expatriate allowance of 204,000, the gross value of which is 400,000.
The Company will also pay repatriation costs up to a total value of 100,000.
NED fees 3 The figures in this table include fees paid to Gareth Bullock, Stuart Chambers and Deanna Oppenheimer in respect of their membership of the Board and Committees of Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited.
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 31 Disclosable interests of the Directors, including family interests 23 February 2013 or at date of 25 February 2012 retirement resignation if earlier or on appointment if later Options Options to acquire to acquire Ordinary ordinary Ordinary ordinary 1 2 1 2 shares shares shares shares Executive Directors 3 Richard Brasher 1,258,619 3,501,665 1,258,585 3,501,665 Philip Clarke 1,829,467 5,251,600 1,832,007 4,352,977 3 Andrew Higginson 572,174 3,978,855 707,081 4,076,589 3 Tim Mason 1,082,208 1,154,281 1,975,704 1,545,587 Laurie McIlwee 76,390 2,731,881 75,506 2,144,448 3 Lucy Neville-Rolfe 456,466 2,472,447 458,036 2,516,326 Non-executive Directors Sir Richard Broadbent 53,996 53,996 Gareth Bullock Patrick Cescau 18,340 18,340 Stuart Chambers 25,000 5,500 3 Karen Cook Ken Hanna 25,000 25,000 3 Ken Hydon 60,093 60,093 3 Deanna Oppenheimer 52,500 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 16,472 16,472 Total 5,526,725 19,090,729 6,486,320 18,137,592 Ordinary shares 1 Ordinary shares shown in this table include shares awarded to Tim Mason under the Performance Share Plan which are subject to future performance conditions, shares held by Tim Mason under the Executive Incentive Plan which are subject to a holding period, shares held under the Long Term Incentive Plan which are subject to a holding period and shares held under the all-employee Share Incentive Plan which are subject to a holding period.
Deanna Oppenheimer holds 17,500 Tesco American Depositary Receipts which is equivalent to 52,500 Tesco ordinary shares of 5p.
Between 23 February 2013 and 30 April 2013, 88 shares were purchased by Executive Directors as part of the Buy As You Earn scheme.
Buy As You Earn is an HMRC approved share purchase scheme under which employees invest up to a limit of 110 on a four-weekly basis to buy shares in Tesco PLC at the market value.
On 25 April 2013, Olivia Garfield, a Non-executive Director appointed on 1 April 2013, purchased 4,086 ordinary shares.
There have been no other changes in Directors interests in Tesco PLC shares at the date of the publication of this report.
Options over shares 2 Options to acquire ordinary shares shown in this table comprise options held under the Discretionary Share Option Plan, Save As You Earn scheme and nil cost options held under the Performance Share Plan and Executive Incentive Plan.
Appointments and leavers 3 The figures in this table are from the date of appointment or until the date that each Director ceased to be a Director of Tesco PLC.
Full details of the Directors interests in shares can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013.
32 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Independent auditors statement to the members of Tesco PLC We have examined the Summary We also read the other information Opinion Financial Statement which comprises contained in the Annual Review and In our opinion the Summary Financial the Summary Group income statement, consider the implications for our Statement is consistent with the full Summary Group balance sheet, Summary statement if we become aware of any annual financial statements, the Group cash flow statement, Summary apparent misstatements or material Report of the Directors and the Directors report of the Directors and Summary inconsistencies with the Summary remuneration report of Tesco PLC for report of the Directors on remuneration Financial Statement.
The other the financial year ended 23 February set out on pages 28 to 31. information comprises only the 2013 and complies with the applicable Chairmans statement, Report from requirements of section 428 of the Respective responsibilities of the Chief Executive and the other Companies Act 2006, and the regulations directors and auditors items listed on the contents page.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Review and This statement, including the opinion,  LLP Summary Financial Statement in has been prepared for and only for Chartered Accountants and Statutory accordance with applicable United the Companys members as a body Auditors Kingdom law.
in accordance with section 428 of the London Companies Act 2006 and for no other 1 May 2013 Our responsibility is to report to you purpose.
We do not, in giving this our opinion on the consistency of the Notes: opinion, accept or assume responsibility Summary Financial Statement within a The maintenance and integrity of the for any other purpose or to any other the Annual Review with the full annual Tesco PLC website is the responsibility person to whom this statement is shown financial statements, the Report of the of the Directors: the work carried or into whose hands it may come save Directors and the Directors remuneration out by the auditors does not involve where expressly agreed by our prior report, and its compliance with the consideration of these matters and, consent in writing.
relevant requirements of section 428 accordingly, the auditors accept no of the Companies Act 2006 and the We conducted our work in accordance responsibility for any changes that regulations made thereunder.
with Bulletin 2008 3 issued by the may have occurred to the full annual Auditing Practices Board.
Our reports financial statements or the Summary on the Companys full annual financial Financial Statement since they were statements describe the basis of our initially presented on the website.
audit opinions on those financial b Legislation in the United Kingdom statements, the Report of the Directors governing the preparation and and the Directors remuneration report.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 33 Group financials Summary Group income statement 52 weeks 52 weeks 2013 2012 Year ended 23 February 2013 m m Continuing operations Revenue 64,826 63,916 Cost of sales 60,737 58,519 Gross profit 4,089 5,397 Administrative expenses 1,562 1,612 Profits losses arising on property-related items 339 397 Operating profit 2,188 4,182 Share of post-tax profits of joint ventures and associates 54 91 Finance income 177 176 Finance costs 459 411 Profit before tax 1,960 4,038 Taxation 574 874 Profit for the year from continuing operations 1,386 3,164 Discontinued operations Loss for the year from discontinued operations 1,266 350 Profit for the year 120 2,814 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 124 2,806 Non-controlling interests 4 8 120 2,814 Earnings per share from continuing and discontinued operations Basic 1.54p 34.98p Diluted 1.54p 34.88p Earnings per share from continuing operations Basic 17.30p 39.35p Diluted 17.30p 39.23p 52 weeks 52 weeks 2013 2012 Non-GAAP measure: underlying profit before tax m m Profit before tax from continuing operations 1,960 4,038 Adjustments for: IAS 32 and IAS 39 Financial Instruments fair value remeasurements 14 44 IAS 19 Employee Benefits non-cash Group Income Statement charge for pensions 56 17 IAS 17 Leases impact of annual uplifts in rent and rent-free periods 28 31 IFRS 3 Business Combinations intangible asset amortisation charges and costs arising from acquisitions 19 22 IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes fair value of awards 28 17 Restructuring and other one-off costs Impairment of PPE and onerous lease provisions 895 Impairment of goodwill 495 Provision for customer redress 115 57 Other restructuring and one-off costs 51 11 Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations 3,549 4,149 34 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Group financials continued Summary Group balance sheet 23 February 25 February 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets 37,033 37,918 Current assets including assets of the disposal group and non-current assets classified as held for sale 13,096 12,863 Current liabilities including liabilities of the disposal group classified as held for sale 18,985 19,249 Net current liabilities 5,889 6,386 Total assets less current liabilities 31,144 31,532 Non-current liabilities 14,483 13,731 Net assets 16,661 17,801 Equity attributable to owners of the parent 16,643 17,775 Non-controlling interests 18 26 Total equity 16,661 17,801 Summary Group cash flow statement and movements in net debt 52 weeks 52 weeks 2013 2012 Year ended 23 February 2013 m m Cash generated from operations 3,873 5,688 Interest paid 457 531 Corporation tax paid 579 749 Net cash generated from operating activities 2,837 4,408 Net cash used in investing activities 278 3,183 Net cash used in financing activities 2,365 1,366 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 194 141 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 2,311 2,428 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 26 24 Cash and cash equivalents including cash held in disposal group at the end of the year 2,531 2,311 Cash held in disposal group 19 6 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 2,512 2,305 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 52 weeks 52 weeks 2013 2012 Year ended 23 February 2013 m m Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 194 141 Other movements in net debt 47 93 Decrease increase in net debt for the year 241 48 Opening net debt 6,838 6,790 Closing net debt 6,597 6,838 NB.
The reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt note is not a primary statement and does not form part of the cash flow statement but forms part of the notes to the Group financial statements in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Dividend 2013 2012 pence share m pence share m Amounts recognised as distributions to owners in the financial year: Prior financial year final dividend 10.13 813 10.09 811 Current financial year interim dividend 4.63 371 4.63 369 Dividends paid to equity owners in the financial year 14.76 1,184 14.72 1,180 Current financial year proposed final dividend 10.13 815 10.13 815 BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 35 Financial calendar Financial year end 2012 13 23 February 2013 Final ex-dividend date 24 April 2013 Record date 26 April 2013 Q1 Interim Management Statement 5 June 2013 Annual General Meeting 28 June 2013 Final dividend payment date 5 July 2013 Half-year end 2013 14 24 August 2013 Interim Results 2 October 2013 Q3 Interim Management Statement 4 December 2013 Financial year end 2013 14 22 February 2014 Please note that dates are provisional and subject to change.
36 Tesco PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2013 Glossary Capital expenditure: the additions to property, plant and Total shareholder return: the notional return from a share, equipment, investment property and intangible assets measured as the percentage change in the share price, plus excluding assets acquired under business combinations.
the dividends paid with the gross dividends reinvested in Tesco shares.
This is measured over either a five-year or a one-year Capex % of sales: capital expenditure as defined above, period.
For the latter, TSR represents the movement for the divided by Group sales including VAT and excluding IFRIC 13. current financial year.
Constant tax rate: using the prior years effective tax rate.
Underlying diluted earnings per share: underlying profit less EBITDAR: operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, tax at the effective tax rate and minority interest divided by rent and movements in impairments of property, plant and the diluted weighted average number of shares in issue during equipment, investment property and intangible assets.
Fixed charge cover: the ratio of EBITDAR excluding Tesco Bank Underlying profit before tax: underlying profit before tax EBITDAR divided by financing costs net interest excluding IAS excludes the impact of non-cash elements of IAS 17, 19, 32 and 32 and 39 impacts and pension finance costs plus operating 39 principally the impact of annual uplifts in rents and rent-free lease expenses.
periods, pension costs, and the marking to market of financial instruments : the amortisation charge on intangible assets Gearing: net debt divided by total equity.
arising on acquisition and acquisition costs, and the non-cash Net indebtedness: the ratio of adjusted net debt net debt impact of IFRIC 13.
It also excludes restructuring and other plus pension deficit and the present value of lease obligations one-off costs.
divided by EBITDAR excluding Tesco Bank EBITDAR.
Return on capital employed: profit before interest and tax less tax at the effective rate of tax divided by the calculated average of opening and closing net assets plus net debt plus dividend creditor less net assets held for resale.
The Summary Financial Statement does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results of the Group and state of affairs of the Company or of the Group and of their policies and arrangements concerning Directors remuneration as would be provided by the Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Members can obtain online, free of charge, the Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013.
The Annual Reports and Financial Statements for future financial years will also be made available online at www.
