88 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Transformation the first 365 days Governance: Other disclosures benefit of any authority, permission, licence or privilege which it, or any Share capital of its subsidiaries, holds or enjoys and which enables an air service to be The Company has the following three classes of shares in issue: operated each an Operating Right.
In particular, EC Council Regulation Number of shares in issue at 1008 2008 on the licensing of air carriers requires that anair carrier must Name 30September 2013 be majority-owned and effectively controlled byEEAnationals.
Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each 1,453,403,227 The Articles allow the Directors, from time to time, to set a Deferred Shares of 0.09 each 934,981,938 PermittedMaximum on the number of the Companys shares Deferred Shares of 1 each 50,000 whichmay be owned by non-EEA nationals at such level as they The Ordinary Shares carry the right to the profits of the Company believe is in compliance with the Operating Rights, provided that the available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding up of Permitted Maximum shall not be less than 40% of the total number the Company.
The Ordinary Shares carry the right to attend and speak at ofissued shares.
general meetings of the Company: each share holds the right to one vote.
The Company maintains a separate register the Separate Register of The Ordinary Shares are admitted to trading on the Official List of the shares in which non-EEA nationals, whether individuals, bodies corporate London Stock Exchange.
Both classes of Deferred Shares carry no right to or other entities have an interest such shares are referred to as Relevant the profits of the Company.
On a winding up, the holders of the sterlingShares in the Articles.
An interest in this context is widely dened see denominated Deferred Shares would be entitled to receive an amount below.
The Directors may require relevant members or other persons equal to the capital paid up on each sterling-denominated Deferred toprovide them with information to enable them to determine whether Share and the holders of the euro-denominated Deferred Shares would shares are, or are to be treated as, Relevant Shares.
If such information be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each isnot provided, then the Directors will be able, at their discretion, to euro-denominated Deferred Share only after the holders of the Ordinary determine that shares to which their enquiries relate be treated as Shares and sterling-denominated Deferred Shares have received, in Relevant Shares.
Registered shareholders will also be obliged to notify the aggregate, the amounts paid up thereon.
The holders ofboth classes Company if they are aware either a that any share they hold ought to of Deferred Shares are not entitled to receive notice, attend, speak or betreated as a Relevant Share for this purpose or b that any share they vote whether on a show of hands or on a poll atgeneral meetings of hold which is treated as a Relevant Share should no longer be so treated.
In this case, the Directors shall request such information and evidence as As part of the 200 million bank facility announced on 25 November they require to satisfy themselves that the share should not be treated 2011, the Company issued Warrants to certain of its lenders, giving as a Relevant Share and, on receipt of such evidence, shall remove holders the right, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe for up to an particulars of the share from the Separate Register.
If the Directors aggregate of 42,914,639 Ordinary Shares representing approximately determine that such action is necessary to protect any Operating Right 4.9% of the issued share capital of the Company atthedate of issue at a due to the fact that an Intervening Act an Intervening Act being the subscription price per share of19.875 pence.
refusal, withholding, suspension or revocation of any Operating Right or the imposition of materially inhibiting conditions or limitations on any On 10 May 2012, the Company issued Warrants as part of the bank Operating Right ineither case, by any state or regulatory authority has facility amendment announced on 5 May 2012 to certain of its lenders, taken place or iscontemplated, threatened or intended, or the aggregate giving holders the right, at any time until 22 May 2015, to subscribe number ofRelevant Shares is such that an Intervening Act may occur for up to an aggregate of 43,749,517 Ordinary Shares, representing or the ownership or control of the Company is such that an Intervening approximately 5.0% of the issued share capital of the Company at Actmay occur, the Directors may, among other things: the date of issue, subsequently increased by 4,440,376 Ordinary identify those shares that give rise to the need to take action and treat Shares to reect the Companys Rights Issue and Placing in June 2013 such shares as affected shares Affected Shares see below : or at a subscription price per share of 0.10 subsequently adjusted to set a Permitted Maximum on the number of Relevant Shares that may 0.0857282 to reect the Companys Rights Issue and Placing in June subsist at any time which may not, save in the circumstances referred 2013.
In addition, the Warrants issued as part of the bank facility to below, be lower than 40% of the total number of issued shares announced in November 2011 werere-priced to the same exercise and treat any Relevant Shares in excess of this Permitted Maximum price.
As at 26 November 2013, 17 Warrantholders had exercised their as Affected Shares see below.
The Directors may serve anotice an Subscription Rights in respect of 81,974,478 Warrants exercised into Affected Share Notice in respect of any Affected Share.
An Affected Ordinary Shares on a one-for-one basis.
Share Notice can, if it so species, have the effect of depriving the registered holder of the right to attend, vote and speak at general Articles of Association meetings which they would otherwise have had as a consequence The Companys Articles of Association the Articles may only be of holding such shares.
Such an Affected Share Notice can, if it so amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of Shareholders.
species, also require the recipient to dispose of the Affected Shares The Articles are available on the Companys website at so that the Relevant Shares will then cease to be Affected Shares www.
within 21 days or such longer period as the Directors may determine.
The Directors are also given the power to sell such Affected Shares Authority to purchase shares themselves where there is non-compliance with an Affected Share Notice at the best price reasonably obtainable at the relevant time on The Company currently does not have authority to purchase its behalf of the shareholder.
In deciding which shares are to be dealt with as Affected Shares, the Share transfer restrictions Directors, in their sole opinion, will determine which Relevant Shares may The Articles are designed to ensure that the number of the Companys give rise to the fact of risk of an Intervening Act occurring and, subject shares held by non-EEA nationals does not reach a level which could to any such determination, will have regard to the chronological order jeopardise the Companys entitlement to continue to hold or enjoy the in which particulars of Relevant Shares have been, or are to be, entered Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 89 in the Separate Register unless to do so would, in the sole opinion of the terms for continuing the facilities but, where agreement on new Directors, be inequitable.
If there is a change in any applicable law or the terms cannot be reached, any such Lender is entitled to: i receive a Company or any subsidiary receives any direction, notice or requirement repayment of amounts owing to such Lender: and or ii cancel all of its from any state or regulatory authority, which, in either case, necessitates commitments under the Agreement.
such action to overcome, prevent oravoid an Intervening Act, then the The Companys subsidiary, Thomas Cook Finance plc, has outstanding Directors may either: 1 525 million 7.75% guaranteed notes due 2020.
On the occurrence of lower the Permitted Maximum to the minimum extent that they certain change of control events relating to the Company, each holder consider necessary to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act: has the option to require Thomas Cook Finance plc the issuer of these or bonds to repurchase allor any part of the holders notes at a purchase resolve that any Relevant Shares shall be treated as Affected Shares.
price in cash equal to101% of the principal amount plus accrued and The rights of the Directors referred to above apply until such time as unpaid interest.
the Directors resolve that grounds for the making of a determination have ceased to exist, whereupon the Directors must withdraw such The Company also has outstanding 400 million 6.75% guaranteed determination.
The Permitted Maximum is set at 40%.
This Permitted notes due 2015 and 300 million 7.75% guaranteed notes due 2017 Maximum may be varied by the Directors.
If the Directors resolve together, the Notes.
Upon the occurrence of certain change of control to vary the Permitted Maximum to deal with shares as Affected events relating to the Company and then only if certain rating conditions Shares or relax the ownership limitations, they shall publish in at in respect of the relevant Notes are met, each holder has the option to least one national newspaper in the UK and in any other country in require the Company to redeem or at the option of the Company to which the shares are listed notice of the determination and of any purchase the Notes of such holder at par value plus accrued interest.
Political donations The Directors shall publish, from time to time: information as to the number of shares particulars of which have been The Company did not make any political donations during the financial year 2012: nil.
entered on the Separate Register: and any Permitted Maximum that has been specified.
2 Major shareholdings As at 25 November 2013, 340,658,793 Ordinary Shares 23.44% were As at 26 November 2013, the Company had been notied, in accordance held on the Separate Register.
with rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the UK The Directors may not register any person as a holder of shares unless Listing Authority, of the following major shareholdings in the Ordinary such person has furnished to the Directors a declaration, together with Share capital of the Company: such evidence as the Directors may require, stating a the name and Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of nationality of any person who has an interest in any such share and, if the shares held issued capital shares held issued capital asat % as at as at % as at Directors require, the nature and extent of such interest or b such other Name 26 11 2013 26 11 2013 26 12 2012 26 12 2012 information as the Directors may from time to time determine.
Invesco Ltd 156,195,950 10.74 149,209,379 16.75 The Directors may decline to register any person as a Shareholder if BlackRock Inc 72,899,276 5.02 42,946,657 4.82 satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming.
Existing holders Marathon Asset of shares will be recorded on the Special Register unless and until Management LLP 69,384,130 4.
77 59,283,472 6.65 they have certied, to the satisfaction of the Company, that they are Kames Capital 58,370,332 4.02 EEA nationals.
A person shall be deemed to have an interest in relation to Thomas Cook Independent auditors Group plc shares if:  LLP have expressed their willingness to be such person has an interest that would subject as provided below re-appointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation be taken into account, or which they would be taken as having, in 3 ofthe Audit Committee, resolutions to re-appoint them as the determining for the purposes of Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their whether a person has a notiable interest: or remuneration will be proposed to the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
they have any such interest as is referred to in Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, but shall not be deemed to have an interest inany shares in The Strategic Report and Directors Report comprising pages 8 to 89 have which their spouse or any infant, child or stepchild or, in Scotland, pupil been approved and are signed by order of the Board by: or minor of theirs is interested by virtue of that relationship or which they hold as a bare or custodian trustee under the laws of England, or as a simple trustee under the laws of Scotland, and interest shall be Derek Woodward construed accordingly.
Group Company Secretary 27 November 2013 Provisions of change of control The Company has a facilities agreement the Agreement in place Registered office which consists of 300 million revolving credit facility and 200 million 3rd oor, South Building bilateral bonding and guarantee facilities and a euro-equivalent of 200 Aldersgate 191 million additional facility.
The Agreement provides that, on any London change of control of the Company, the Lenders under the Agreement EC1A 4HD are obligated to negotiate for a period not exceeding 30 days, unless extended by agreement for a further period not exceeding 30 days Registered number 6091951 Financial statements Directors report Strategic report
