NOTICE OF ANNUAL 140 GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the fiftieth Annual General may consider appropriate to take account of meeting of Travis Perkins plc will be held at Northampton the requirements of best practice and for the Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, implementation of the Scheme and to adopt the Northampton, NN5 5BG on Wednesday 28 may 2014 at Scheme as so modified and to do all such other 12.00 noon for the purposes set out below: acts and things as they may consider appropriate to To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following implement the Scheme: and Resolutions, of which Resolutions 1 to 15 inclusive will be b. establish further schemes based on the Scheme proposed as ordinary resolutions and Resolutions 16 to 18 but modified to take account of local tax, exchange inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions.
control or securities laws in overseas territories, 1.
To receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts provided that any shares made available under and the Auditors Report thereon for the financial year such further schemes are treated as counting ended 31 December 2013. against the limits on individual or overall 2.
To receive and approve the Remuneration Policy participation in the Scheme.
set out on pages 69 and 70 of the Directors 15.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities, the Remuneration Report contained within the Annual Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised Report and Accounts for the financial year ended in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 31 December 2013.
2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to 3.
To receive and approve the Directors Remuneration allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe Report other than the Remuneration Policy referred for or to convert any security into shares in the to in Resolution 2 above contained within the Annual Company: Report and Accounts for the financial year ended a. up to an aggregate nominal amount of 31 December 2013.
8,229,844.90 such amount to be reduced by 4.
To declare a final dividend for the financial year ended the aggregate nominal amount allotted or granted 31 December 2013 of 21 pence per ordinary share, under paragraph b of this Resolution 15 in excess of payable to shareholders on the register at the close of 8,229,845: and business on 2 may 2014. b. comprising equity securities as defined in section 5.
To appoint Christopher Rogers as a non-executive 560 1 of the Companies Act 2006 up to an director of the Company.
Biographical details of aggregate nominal amount of 16,459,689.90 such Christopher Rogers appear on page 57. amount to be reduced by the aggregate nominal 6.
To re-appoint John Coleman as a non-executive amount allotted or granted under paragraph a of this director of the Company.
Biographical details of John Resolution 15 in connection with an offer by way of a Coleman appear on page 57. rights issue: 7.
To re-appoint Andrew Simon as a non-executive i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as director of the Company.
Biographical details of may be practicable to their existing holdings: and Andrew Simon appear on page 57. ii.
to holders of other equity securities as required by 8.
To re-appoint Ruth Anderson as a non-executive the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, director of the Company.
Biographical details of Ruth as the directors otherwise consider necessary, Anderson appear on page 57. and so that the Directors may impose any limits 9.
To re-appoint Tony Buffin as a director of the Company.
or restrictions and make any arrangements which Biographical details of Tony Buffin appear on page 56. they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with 10.
To re-appoint John Carter as a director of the treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, Company.
Biographical details of John Carter appear legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the on page 56. laws of, any territory or any other matter, 11.
To re-appoint Robert Walker as a director of the such authorities to apply until the end of the Companys Company.
Biographical details of Robert Walker appear next annual general meeting after this Resolution is on page 56. passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 12.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP, Chartered Accountants, June 2015 but, in each case, so that the Company as auditor of the Company to hold office from the may make offers and enter into agreements before conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the authority expires which would, or might, require the next general meeting of the Company at which shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or to accounts are laid.
convert any security into shares to be granted after the 13.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of authority expires and the Directors may allot shares or Deloitte LLP.
grant such rights under any such offer or agreement 14.
That the rules of the Travis Perkins Share matching as if the authority had not expired.
References in this Scheme 2014 the Scheme be approved and the Resolution 15 to the nominal amount of rights to Directors be authorised to: subscribe for or to convert any security into shares a. make such modifications to the Scheme as they including where such rights are referred to as TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 equity securities as defined in section 560 1 of the 18.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and 141 Companies Act 2006 are to the nominal amount of unconditionally authorised to make one or more shares that may be allotted pursuant to the rights.
market purchases within the meaning of section 16.
That, in substitution for all existing powers and subject 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of ordinary to the passing of Resolution 15, the directors be shares of 10 pence each in the capital of the Company generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of ordinary shares, provided that: the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities a. the maximum aggregate number of ordinary as defined in section 560 1 of the Companies Act shares authorised to be purchased is 24,689,534 2006 for cash pursuant to the authority granted by representing approximately 10% of the issued share Resolution 15 and or pursuant to section 573 of the capital of the Company as at 25 February 2014 : Companies Act 2006 to sell ordinary shares held by b. the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may the Company as treasury shares for cash, in each case be paid for an ordinary share is its nominal value of free of the restriction in section 561 of the Companies 10 pence: Act 2006, such power to be limited: c. the maximum price exclusive of expenses which a. to the allotment of equity securities and sale of may be paid for an ordinary share shall not exceed the treasury shares for cash in connection with an offer higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities but in quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The the case of an allotment pursuant to the authority London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five granted by paragraph b of Resolution 15, such power business days immediately preceding the day on which shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in that ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: and connection with an offer by way of a rights issue only : ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of an i. to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as ordinary share quoted for the last independent trade may be practicable to their existing holdings: and and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary ii.
to holders of other equity securities as required by share on the trading venues where the purchase is the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, carried out: as the directors otherwise consider necessary, d. this authority unless previously renewed, varied or and so that the Directors may impose any limits revoked by the Company in general meeting expires or restrictions and make any arrangements which at the conclusion of the next Annual General meeting they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with of the Company or 30 June 2015, whichever is the treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, earlier: and legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the e. the Company may make a contract to purchase laws of, any territory or any other matter: and ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry b. to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the of such authority, which will or may be executed wholly authority granted by paragraph a of Resolution or partly after the expiry of such authority, and may 15 and or sale of treasury shares for cash in each make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to any case otherwise than in the circumstances set out in such contract.
16 up to a nominal amount of 1,234,476.70 calculated, in the case of By order of the Board equity securities which are rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, ordinary shares by reference Deborah Grimason to the aggregate nominal amount of relevant shares Company Secretary and General Counsel which may be allotted pursuant to such rights, Lodge Way House, Harlestone Road, such power to apply until the end of the Companys Northampton NN5 7UG next annual general meeting after this Resolution is 25 February 2014 passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 Registered in England No.
824821 June 2015 but so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the power expires which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power expires and the Directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
That a general meeting other than an annual general meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
