Notes to the financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEmBER 2013 Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the 1.
General information 99 financial statements of the Group.
Overview The Directors are currently of the opinion that the Groups forecasts Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and projections show that the Group should be able to operate within under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants.
The Group is given on page 149.
The nature of the Groups operations and its is, however, exposed to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 55. which could affect the Groups ability to meet managements forecast These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, and projections and hence its ability to meet its banking covenants.
the currency of the primary economic environment in which the The Directors believe that the Group has the flexibility to react to Group operates.
changing market conditions and is adequately placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Basis of accounting Detailed considerations of going concern, risks and uncertainties The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with are provided in the Corporate Governance Report and in the Strategic International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the Report on pages 61 and 62 and pages 39 to 41 respectively.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The financial After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement at the statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Basis of preparation financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis, except that derivative financial instruments are stated at 2.
Significant accounting policies their fair value.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all entities controlled by the Company The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group from the date statements are set out below.
control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company: Revenue recognition Has the power over the investee Revenue is recognised when goods or services are received by the Is exposed or has rights to a variable return from the involvement customer and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to with the investee them.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received Has the ability to use its power to affect its returns or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and As such, the results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts included in the consolidated income statement from the effective and value added tax.
For the Parent Company, revenue comprises date of acquisition.
management charges receivable and dividend income received.
In the current financial year, the Group has adopted IAS 19 as revised in June 2011 retrospectively and in accordance with the Exceptional items transitional provisions.
As the Group has always recognised actuarial Exceptional items are those items of income and expenditure that gains and losses immediately there is no effect on the prior year by reference to the Group are material in size or unusual in nature or defined benefit obligation and balance sheet disclosure arising from incidence, that in the judgement of the Directors, should be disclosed this change.
IAS 19 revised requires interest cost and return on separately on the face of the financial statements or in the notes in scheme assets calculated under the previous version of IAS 19 to be the case of a segment to ensure both that the reader has a proper replaced with a net interest amount calculated by applying a discount understanding of the Groups financial performance and that there is rate to the net defined liability or asset.
The impact of this revision is comparability of financial performance between periods.
Items of income or expense that are considered by the Directors The following new and revised Standards and interpretations for designation as exceptional items include, but are not limited have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had to, significant restructurings, onerous contracts, write-downs or any significant impacts on the amounts reported in these financial impairments of current and non-current assets, the costs of acquiring statements although disclosures have been amended to reflect new and integrating businesses, gains or losses on disposals of businesses requirements: and investments, re-measurement gains or losses arising from changes IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to the extent that IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures hedge accounting is not achieved or is not effective and pension IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements scheme curtailment gains and the effect of changes in corporation tax IFRS 11 Joint Ventures rates on deferred tax balances.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value measurements Business combinations and goodwill At the date of the approval of these financial statements, the following All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition Standards and Interpretations, which have not yet been applied in these method.
The cost of an acquisition represents the cash value of the financial statements, were in issue, but not yet effective: consideration and or the fair value of the shares issued on the date the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments offer became unconditional.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities IAS 32 amended Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under Liabilities IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and except that: Financial Liabilities Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to IAS 36 amendments Recoverable Amount Disclosures for employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in Non-Financial Assets accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 39 amendments Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of respectively Hedge Accounting Liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Improvements to IFRSs minor amendments Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured The Directors anticipate that adoption of these Standards and in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS revalued prior to the adoption of IFRS is transferred directly to Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups 100 accumulated profits.
previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is Leases recognised in the income statement.
Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks Goodwill arising on acquisition represents the excess of the cost of and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised acquisition over the share of the aggregate fair value of identifiable at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased asset net assets including intangible assets of a business or a subsidiary at or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
All material intangible fixed assets obtained on Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and acquisition have been recognised separately in the financial statements.
reduction of the lease liability to achieve a constant rate of interest Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset and allocated to cash on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged generating units or groups of cash generating units that are expected directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over to benefit from the synergies of the combination, then at least annually, the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Any impairment is recognised immediately Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed, as such, ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
goodwill is stated in the balance sheet at cost less any provisions for Operating lease rental payments are recognised as an expense in the impairment in value.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS Reverse lease premia and other incentives receivable for entering 1 January 2004 has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off into a lease agreement are recognised in the income statement on a to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and straight line basis over the life of the lease.
is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Liabilities for contingent consideration are classified as fair value Impairment of tangible and intangible assets through profit and loss.
The carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets with a definite useful life are reviewed at each balance sheet date Investments in associates to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence, an indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and but not control or joint control through participation in the financial compared to its carrying value.
Where the asset does not generate and operating policy decisions of the investee.
The results, assets, and cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit CGU to which using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater carried in the balance sheet at cost as adjusted by post acquisition of its fair value less disposal cost and its value in use the present changes in the groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any value of the future cash flows that the asset is expected to generate.
impairment in the value of individual investments.
In determining value in use the present value of future cash flows is discounted using a pre tax discount rate that reflects current market Intangible assets assessments of the time value of money in relation to the period of the Intangible assets identified as part of the assets of an acquired business investment and the risks specific to the asset concerned.
are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair value can be Where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount a provision measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are amortised for the impairment loss is established with a charge being made to the to the income statement on a straight-line basis over a maximum of 20 income statement.
When the reasons for a write down no longer exist years except where they are considered to have an indefinite useful life.
except in the case of goodwill the write down is reversed in the income In the latter instance, they are reviewed annually for impairment.
statement up to the net book value that the relevant asset would have had if it had not been written down and if it had been depreciated.
Investment properties For intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life the recoverable Investment properties, which are held to earn rental income or for amount is estimated at each annual balance sheet date.
capital appreciation or for both, are stated at deemed cost less depreciation.
Properties are depreciated to their estimated residual Inventories value on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, up to a Inventories, which consist of goods for resale, are stated at the lower maximum of 50 years.
of average weighted cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises Rental income from investment property is recognised in the income direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated Property, plant and equipment selling price less the estimated costs of disposal.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Assets are Financial instruments depreciated to their estimated residual value on a straight-line basis Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet over their estimated useful lives as follows: when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of Buildings 50 years or if lower, the estimated useful life of the the instrument.
building or the life of the lease Plant and equipment 4 to 10 years Trade receivables Freehold land is not depreciated Trade receivables are measured at amortised cost, which is carrying Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected amount less provision for irrecoverable amounts.
Allowances for the useful lives on the same basis as owned assets, or where shorter, the estimated irrecoverable amounts are made in the income statement term of the relevant lease.
when the receivable is considered to be uncollectible.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds net of Impairment of financial assets expenses and the carrying amount of the asset in the balance sheet Financial assets are treated as impaired when in the opinion of the and is recognised in the income statement.
Where appropriate, the Directors, the likelihood of full recovery is diminished by either events or attributable revaluation reserve remaining in respect of properties change of circumstance.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling or of disposal Bank and other borrowings 101 in the near future: or Interest bearing bank loans and overdrafts, loan notes and other Is a part of an identified portfolio of financial instruments that the loans are recognised in the balance sheet at amortised cost.
Finance Group manages together and has a recent actual pattern of shortcharges associated with arranging a bank facility are recognised in term profit-taking: or the income statement over the life of the facility.
All other borrowing Is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income Trade payables statement unless it is an effective cash flow relationship.
The net gain Trade payables are measured at amortised cost.
or loss recognised in the income statement incorporates any interest earned or paid on the financial asset and financial liability respectively.
Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the Loans and receivables rates ruling on the date of the transaction.
Trade receivables and other receivables that have fixed or determinable At the consolidated balance sheet date, unhedged monetary assets payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised rate of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Interest arising on translation are recognised in the income statement.
income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables, which applies to all amounts owed to the Group Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks arising from financing Other financial liabilities activities.
The Group does not enter into speculative financial Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured instruments.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.
The fair value subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest of derivative financial instruments is the estimated amount the Group method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
would receive or pay to terminate the derivative at the balance sheet The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised date, taking into account current interest and exchange rates and the cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the current creditworthiness of the counterparties.
The effective interest is the rate that exactly discounts Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments, that are estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the designated and effective as hedges of the future variability of cash financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period.
flows, are recognised in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual a hedged item, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair value rights to the cash flows from the asset expire: or it transfers the attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry in the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership income statement.
of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken to the income control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest statement as they arise.
in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
Derivatives embedded in commercial contracts are treated as If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the related to those of the underlying contracts, with unrealised gains or financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the losses being reported in the income statement.
The fair value of hedged derivatives is classified as a non-current asset The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the or non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
is more than 12 months, otherwise they are classified as current.
Foreign currency forward contracts not designated effective hedges Taxation are marked to market at the balance sheet date, with any gains or The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and losses being taken through the income statement.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Financial assets and financial liabilities Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: statement because it excludes items of income and expense that are financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, availabletaxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items, which for-sale AFS financial assets and loans and receivables.
The are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantially and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
enacted by the balance sheet date.
Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on or other financial liabilities and trade and other payables.
differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in The Group has defined the classes of financial assets to be other the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the financial assets, cash and borrowings and derivative financial instruments.
This is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised Financial assets and financial liabilities at FVTPL for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are Financial assets and financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL where recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will the financial asset or the financial liability is either held for trading or it be available against which deductible temporary differences can be is designated as FVTPL.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary A financial asset or financial liability is classified as held for trading if it: difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
