OTHER SHAREHOLDER 149 INFORMATION sharehoLder enqUiries http: hire.
co. uk hire Shareholder enquiries should be directed to the Company www.
com Secretary at the Companys registered office: www.
co. uk Travis Perkins plc www.
co. uk Lodge Way House, Lodge Way, Harlestone Road, www.
co. uk or to the Companys registrars: www.
co. uk Capita Asset Services www.
co. uk The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, www.
co. uk calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are www.
co. uk open 8.30am to 5.30pm, monday Friday www.
co. uk Email shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk finanCiaL diary www.
co. uk Ex-dividend date 30 April 2014 www.
co. uk Annual General meeting 28 may 2014 www.
com investor relations site Payment of final dividend 30 may 2014 www.
co. uk Announcement of 2014 www.
co. uk interim results 30 July 2014 www.
co. uk Interim management Statement 17 October 2014 www.
co. uk Announcement of 2014 annual results 26 February 2015 These sites allow credit account holders to order on-line through Trademate, with the exception of the Wickes, Tile annUaL GeneraL meetinG CaterinG Giant and ToolStation sites which allow on-line ordering by arranGements secure card transaction.
It has always been the Companys custom to provide a light most of the sites provide information about branch luncheon for shareholders following the AGm, and a buffet locations and allow access to prices and the product range luncheon will be available.
Customers are also able to construct their own price quotation that includes any special price arrangements internet that have been negotiated with the Group.
There are sites on the internet that carry a range of information about the Group and its principal brands, eLeCtroniC CommUniCation products and services at the following addresses: In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the www.
co. uk Companys Articles of Association, the Company is allowed www.
co. uk to use its website to publish statutory documents and www.
co. uk communications to shareholders, such as the Annual www.
com Report and Accounts and the Notice of the AGm.
co. uk therefore view or download a copy of the Annual Report www.
co. uk and Accounts and the Notice of the AGm by going to our www.
com see section called www.
If you received a hard copy of this report in www.
co. uk the post then you will not have consented to this method of www.
Should you now wish to consent to this method www.
co. uk of publication, you should contact www.
co. uk Capita Asset Services, www.
co. uk Freepost RLYX-GZTU-KRRG, SAS, www.
co. uk The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, www.
co. uk hire By reducing the number of communications sent by www.
co. uk post, it will not only result in cost savings to the Company www.
co. uk but also reduce the impact that the unnecessary printing www.
co. uk and distribution of reports has on the environment.
Please OTHER INFORmATION OTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION note that if you consent to website publication, you will 7.
T he Company reserves the right, irrespective of your 150 continue to be notified each time that the Company places election, to revert to sending hard copy documentation a statutory communication on the website.
This notification by post whenever it considers it necessary or desirable will be sent to you by post.
However, you may also choose to do so.
to receive notifications by e-mail and we would encourage you to do so.
If you wish to receive these notifications by Capita asset serviCes e-mail, you should register at www.
com, The Companys registrars, Capita Asset Services Capita, and follow the instructions see Registrars On-Line Service provide a number of services that, as a shareholder, might below.
be useful to you: Please telephone Capita Asset Services on 0871 664 0300 within the UK, calls cost 10p per minute Registrars on-line service plus network extras: lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, By logging onto www.
com the Share monday Friday or 44 20 8639 3399 Non-UK if you Portal and following the prompts, shareholders can view have any queries.
and amend various details on their account.
Please note that you will need to register to use this service for which Notes purpose you will require your unique investor code IVC, 1.
Bef ore consenting to receive documents and which can be found on your share certificate, proxy card or communications via the website, shareholders should dividend tax voucher.
ensure that they have a computer with internet access and the Adobe Acrobat reader facility.
The Adobe Dividend re-investment Plan DRIP Acrobat reader software may be obtained via the This is a scheme which allows you to use your dividends to website free of charge.
buy further shares in Travis Perkins.
If y ou elect to receive notifications of the publication of who wish to re-invest dividend payments in the Company, a the documents and communications on the website facility is provided by Capita IRG Trustees Ltd in conjunction electronically, it will be your responsibility to notify our with Capita Asset Services.
Under this facility, cash dividends registrars, Capita, of any subsequent change in your are used to purchase additional shares.
Shares are bought e-mail address or other contact details.
on the dividend payment date at the then current market 3.
If y ou are not resident in the United Kingdom, it is your price.
Any cash left over which is insufficient to purchase a responsibility to ensure that you may validly receive whole share will be carried forward and held without interest, documents and communications electronically either in a Client money bank account.
generally or in relation to any particular document or You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal by communication without the Company being required to clicking on reinvest dividends and following the on screen comply with any governmental or regulatory procedures instructions.
Any shareholder requiring further information or any similar formalities.
The Company may deny should contact Capita on 0871 664 0381 Calls cost 10p electronic access to documents and communications per minute plus any network extras from within the UK : relating to certain corporate actions in respect of those lines are open from 9.00 am to 5.30 pm monday Friday.
shareholders who it believes are resident in jurisdictions If Non-UK 44 208 639 3402.
co. uk where it is advised that to provide such access would or or visit www.
Please note that this may be a breach of any legal or regulatory requirements.
facility is only available to shareholders with an address in 4.
T he Companys obligation to provide shareholder the UK or EEA.
The value of shares and income from them documents to you is satisfied when it transmits an can fall as well as rise and you may not recover the amount electronic message.
The Company is not responsible of money you invest.
for any failure in transmission for reasons beyond its control any more than it is for postal failures.
In Duplicate share register accounts the event of the Company becoming aware that If you are receiving more than one copy of our report, it an electronic communication to you has not been may be that your shares are registered in two or more successfully transmitted, a further two attempts will be accounts on our register of members.
If the transmission is still unsuccessful, a hard intention you might consider merging them into one single copy of the relevant notification will be posted to your entry.
Please contact Capita who will be pleased to carry registered address.
Y our registration to receive electronic communications and your relevant contact address details will stand Overseas shareholders until such time as the Company receives alternative Capita has partnered with Deutsche Bank to provide you instructions from you by e-mail or in writing.
with a service that will convert your sterling dividends into 6.
T he Company takes all reasonable precautions to your local currency at a competitive rate.
You can choose ensure no computer viruses are present in any electronic to receive payment directly into your local bank account, or communication it transmits, but the Company shall not alternatively, you can be sent a currency draft.
be responsible for any loss or damage arising from the You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal by opening or use of any e-mail or attachments sent by the clicking on your dividend options and following the on Company or on its behalf.
The Company recommends screen instructions or by contacting the Customer Support that shareholders subject all messages to computer virus Centre.
Further details are available from Capita Asset checking procedures.
Any electronic communication Services: by telephone UK: 0871 664 0385 UK calls received by or on behalf of the Company, including the cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
From overseas: lodgement of an electronic proxy form that is found to 44 20 8639 3405.
Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm, contain any computer virus will not be accepted.
monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 share deaLinG serviCes 151 Capita and Stocktrade are two share dealing services that you may wish to use to buy or sell shares in Travis Perkins.
Capita Capita offers an on-line and telephone share dealing service which is available by logging on to www.
com or telephoning 0871 664 0346 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8.00am to 4.30pm, monday Friday.
For the on-line service, Capitas commission rates are 1% of the value of the deal minimum 21.00, maximum 125.00 and for the telephone service, Capitas commission rates are 1.50% of the value of the deal minimum 28.50, maximum 175.00.
Stocktrade Stocktrade offer a telephone share dealing service which is available by telephoning 44 131 240 0508 and quoting reference Travis Perkins Dial and Deal.
Stocktrades commission will be 0.5%, to deals up to the value of 10,000 and 0.2% on the excess thereafter, subject to a minimum of 17.50.
Please note that UK share purchases will be subject to 0.5% stamp duty.
There will also be a PTm Panel for Takeovers and mergers levy of 1 for single trades in excess of 10,000.
When buying shares you will be required to pay for your transaction at the time of the deal by debit card, and you should ensure that you have sufficient cleared funds available in your debit card account to pay for the shares in full.
share fraUd - warninG to sharehoLders In recent years, share fraud has been increasing, with shareholders receiving unsolicited correspondence concerning investment matters.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams: offering to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
Sometimes these individuals imply that they represent Travis Perkins, but in fact they have no connection with the Company and have no authority to claim or imply that they are.
If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the Financial Conduct Authority using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can also find out more about investment scams.
OTHER INFORmATION 152 SHAREHOLDER NOTES TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Designed by RWH Design Consultants, Photographed by Charles Ward Printed by Jones and Palmer Travis Perkins plc Lodge Way House Harlestone Road Northampton NN5 7UG Telephone 01604 752 424 www.
