DIRECTORS 68 REMUNERATION REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEmBER 2013 This report sets out the Groups remuneration policies for its The approach to basic salary increases should be directors and senior executives and how these policies will consistent across all colleagues including no pay be applied in practice.
The policy is available to view on the increases for mergers and acquisitions activity Companys website in the investor centre.
performanCe oUtComes UnaUdited information As the Chairmans report indicated, the strong business 1. remUneration Committee Chairmans performance in the second half of the year driven by the statement delivery of a number of managements strategic initiatives Dear Shareholder, resulted in very good full year results.
Adjusted EPS was 2013 was a year of transition for the reporting of up 14%, debt levels lower by 104m, and the share price directors remuneration, following the introduction of the increased from 12.52 at the time of writing last years new government regulations on executive remuneration report to 18.72 by the end of 2013.
Historically we have always sought to be our progressive dividend policy - this year declaring a full transparent in our disclosures and consulted widely with year dividend of 31.0p, a 24% increase on the previous shareholders on our remuneration proposals and we year.
Over the longer term the Groups outperformance have embraced the new regulations as we believe they has been reflected in the TSR increase from 100% to will help us to continue to deliver clear and easy to read 742% over 5 years and our move into the FTSE 100, remuneration reports.
This compares favourably to the market TSR The policy on directors remuneration will be subject to a increase from 100% to 200% over the same period.
binding shareholder resolution at the forthcoming Annual This performance is reflected in the remuneration received General meeting AGm and every three years thereafter.
by the executive directors for the year under review.
Annual The Annual Report on remuneration which describes how bonus awards for executive directors have been determined the policy has been applied during the year will be subject to by the Committee based on a rounded assessment of an advisory resolution at the forthcoming AGm.
There will be an annual In addition we are seeking support via a separate incentive payout for executive directors and central function resolution for the renewal of part of our long term incentive managers of typically 60-65% of the maximum bonus arrangements.
During consultations last year shareholders opportunity.
This reflects the fact that whilst performance were supportive of our remuneration package for directors in the second half of the year was very strong the tough and a key element of the package is our co-investment conditions in the first half meant that the EPS and ROCE share matching scheme SmS.
Participants invest in targets set for 2013 were only partially met.
These results company shares using their own funds and are eligible for are set out separately in this report on page 26. a matching grant which vests subject to achievement of As part of determining the 60-65% bonus payment cash return on capital employed targets.
It is for this scheme level the Committee reviewed managements performance renewal we seek support.
against a range of strategic objectives which account for up In this, our first report under the regulations, I want to to 20% of the maximum bonus.
These include measures explain the context of our remuneration philosophy both in relating to people and process capability, health and safety terms of our recent performance but also in relation to our improvements, market competitiveness, business quality, future business strategy.
growth potential and financial performance.
Overall the Remuneration Committee has judged these objectives as remUneration phiLosophy 75% achieved with particular success in relation to TSR and We remain committed to a remuneration policy that incremental value of investments but with some work to do balances long term shareholder value creation with the against stretching targets for customer engagement, multineed to motivate, reward and retain high calibre executives.
The principles of our remuneration policy remain unchanged Levels of bonus awarded therefore reflect actual from previous years.
performance relative to both annual and longer term Remuneration should be competitive and contribute to expectations.
the delivery of short and long-term superior financial Half of the annual bonus earned has been deferred into results for shareholders shares which are subject to forfeiture if target share prices Remuneration should contain significant performance are not achieved over the next two years.
This mechanism related incentive elements ensures that there is a meaningful deferral of variable pay Reward mechanisms ensure that a significant proportion on an at risk basis.
of variable pay is delivered in deferred shares with We are delighted that across our businesses the majority clawback provisions ensuring that executives retain a of colleagues in our merchanting divisions and central meaningful personal stake in the Groups success support functions will also receive a bonus in respect of All colleagues should be able to share in the success of 2013 performance.
the Group through participation in both annual bonus Both short and long term incentive performance schemes and longer term share plans measures are directly linked to driving and rewarding TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 DIRECTORS strategic growth initiatives, whilst efficiently managing capital directors would be performance related.
In determining our 69 expenditure, operating expenditure, costs and cash flows.
policy, all associated risks are considered, so that the overall REMUNERATION REPORT The performance measures include the following: EPS, TSR, remuneration structure and targets in incentive schemes do cashflow, ROCE and broader goals such as market share, not give rise to any undue risk taking.
sales growth, colleague engagement and health and safety We believe that it is important for all of our most senior improvements.
We believe that this balanced basket of executives to build up a shareholding in the Company measures, which management find easy to relate to, has and so we have implemented an increased requirement ensured a clear focus on the activities which have driven the for executive directors to hold shares to the value of two Groups current position as the largest supplier of building times basic salary to be built up over a five year period.
Over the last three years the share price Participation in our long term incentive schemes will be has increased from 10.58 to 18.72 with a 34% increase restricted or withdrawn if the required shareholding is not in EPS over the same time period.
This has been balanced acquired and maintained.
At 31 December 2013 both John with an investment and focus on longer term development Carter and Geoff Cooper had exceeded their target level of areas such as IT, health and safety and training where we holdings.
Tony Buffin has already built up a shareholding of plan to increase levels of investment in the future.
consistent outperformance in total returns to shareholders We take into account a number of factors when setting has been achieved through managements track record of targets for our incentive schemes.
Taken together, they successfully combining organic and acquisitive growth which represent a balance that means executives should not be is measured and rewarded through the basket of measures.
unduly rewarded for one-off, short term factors.
Instead, The Committee is delighted that this superior longer performance over and above stretching targets should term performance resulted in a maximum payment under result in greater shareholder value and, in turn, high rewards the three year individual investment linked share award for executives.
measured on CROCE and a 60.7% payout on the measures linked to the Performance Share LTIP for the awards which Shareholder consultation vested in march 2013.
Around 200 senior managers The Remuneration Committee consulted shareholders participate in at least one of these plans.
during the year on some of the key challenges it faced and Last year I referred to the Committees decision to defer was pleased to gain a high level of support for the decisions its decision in relation to the January 2013 management made in a year of major change as outlined in this report, annual pay review until July 2013 due to the market and namely: trading performance uncertainty at that time.
As a result The one off share award in relation to securing the of the stronger business performance as the business appointment of Tony Buffin as Chief Financial Officer approached the second half of the year, it was agreed that The basic salary implemented on the appointment of in line with all other management employees, the executive John Carter as Chief Executive Officer directors would receive the same 1.5% increase to basic The increase to the fee levels for the roles of salary in July 2013 delayed from January 2013, but this non-executive director and chairman was not backdated.
In respect of the January 2014 pay review an award Remuneration challenges and outcomes of 2% was agreed reflecting the more positive trading 2013 has been a busy year of leadership change and environment and outlook.
This is the seventh successive transition for the Group.
Whilst this has presented a number year in which the same pay increase has applied to all of challenges the principle guiding both the Remuneration employees other than for promotion.
The average pay and Nominations committees has been to ensure that the increase over the last seven years has been 2.2%.
decisions made by them in all related matters resulted in continued outperformance of total returns to shareholders remUneration poLiCy and eliminated risk.
In turn this has fully tested the degree Our Remuneration Policy is first and foremost designed to to which our remuneration philosophy, policy and approach support the Group goal of creating and maintaining long works in practice.
term shareholder value and returns through consistently The Committee carefully considered these matters, outperforming in our markets.
With this in mind, we continue consulting shareholders and taking external advice where to focus our efforts on achieving the right blend of fixed necessary, and dealt with each of the matters within the and variable remuneration and ensuring that our senior remuneration policy framework set out on page 71. executives are paid at a level appropriate to the size of The challenges and outcomes can be summarised our Group.
We are mindful of our responsibilities to other as follows: stakeholders, especially employees, and take this into Recruitment of our Chief Financial Officer account when reviewing pay for senior executives.
A key principle applied for directors and colleagues throughout As I set out in last years remuneration report, in order to secure Tony Buffin as Group Chief Financial Officer, it was the Group is that base salaries should be competitive and set at the median for the relevant comparator group.
Bonus necessary to compensate him for part of the significant cash awards earned at his previous employer, but not yet schemes are designed to incentivise and reward both individual and team performance.
paid, which he forfeited on his resignation.
The one off award was structured on a co-investment basis whereby Appropriate levels of incentives are just as important.
External guidance received indicates that over the longer Tony Buffin invested 500,000, from his own resources, purchasing 32,902 Company shares and will, in turn, term, more than 50% of total remuneration should be performance related.
The framework we now have in receive 65,804 Company shares, half in June 2014 and half in June 2015 subject to him continuing to be employed place means that if all incentives vested at their maximum, between 75%-80% of total remuneration for the executive by the Company and also achieving a number of personal CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT objectives in relation to changes and improvements agreed Chief Executive Officer: this approach ensured that John 70 for the finance function and management information Carter hit the ground running and the high level of investor provision.
He will not be able to sell any of these shares until support we received was an important endorsement of the he has achieved a shareholding of at least two times basic final appointment decision.
Full details of the award are detailed on page 79.
As we do not plan to replace Johns previous role as Deputy CEO there will be a significantly reduced overall total Ensuring a smooth transition of the Groups board remuneration cost.
finance leadership As the precise timing of Tony Buffins commencement date Review of fee levels for the Chairman and could not be confirmed quickly due to his previous employers non-executive directors notice period restrictions it was essential to retain the The Board commissioned a review of the Chairmans and services of Paul Hampden Smith for longer than envisaged non-executive directors fees which had not been increased under his original retirement timetable.
It was agreed that for three years.
Based on the independent benchmarking a he would continue in employment until September 30th decision was made by the appropriate directors to increase 2013 to ensure a smooth handover could take place.
In the fee levels to a market median competitive level with a recognition of his commitment and support in this matter minimum of 25% of the fee level being paid in shares as as well as recognising his significant contribution to the outlined on page 74.
We believe that this achieves a better Groups growth and shareholder returns over the previous alignment of interests between non-executive directors and 20 years, demonstrated by the rise in EPS from 21.4p in shareholders and were pleased to receive shareholder support 1994 to 103.6p, the Remuneration Committee exercised for this recommendation and also to the decision to bring the their discretion in relation to the vesting of his 2012 LTIP future review timetable in line with all other employees.
This means that the awards will still be subject to performance target testing in the normal way, but will not be forward LookinG time prorated.
On 3 December 2013 the Company held a Capital markets day and presented its revised corporate plan Retirement of our Group Chief Executive Officer to investors.
The plan reflected a significant shift in the As previously communicated to shareholders, Geoff Cooper investment strategy of the business compared to the prior confirmed his decision to retire on his 60th birthday, plan.
Over recent years the Company strategy has been to 6 march 2014, and, as part of the succession planning protect returns, achieved through judicious operational cost process, stepped down from his position as CEO on 31 and capital control.
The 2013 corporate plan recognises December 2013, the date of John Carters appointment as that to exploit the significant growth opportunities over Chief Executive Officer.
All elements of remuneration will be the next 5 years, a significant cash investment within the enacted in line with the remuneration policy applicable to business system infrastructure and the respective network retirement with no discretions exercised in his favour.
Geoff portfolio would be required in 2014 and 2015.
The plan has agreed to continue as an advisor to John Carter and the was well received and endorsed by investors and analysts.
Board for a further 12 months specifically in relation to the Targets confirmed in last years Annual Report for Toolstation business.
long term incentives awarded in march 2013 just prior The salary agreed for his new advisory role is 100,000 to the corporate plan review were based upon ranges per annum.
He will not be eligible for any bonus payments of 95-105% of planned cashflow and CROCE targets and no new LTIP awards will be granted during this reflecting the prior business plan.
The new corporate plan transitional period.
He will continue to retain awards granted and the significant investment in growth outlined therein to him prior to his stepping down from his position as CEO means that the cashflow and CROCE ranges for 2013 until his cessation of employment at which point any vesting and beyond need to be amended.
The revised 2013 and of awards will be dependent on the rules of the relevant the 2014 cashflow and CROCE targets and range are scheme for cessation due to retirement.
detailed in the annual report on remuneration.
The levels of investment which give rise to the necessity to adjust these Appointment of our Group Chief Executive Officer targets will be closely monitored by the Remuneration and We commissioned external benchmarking work to assist Audit Committees to ensure that they are satisfied that the us in determining the base salary level for John Carters adjustment remains valid and justified.
LTI grants made promotion to Chief Executive Officer.
Our main focus was prior to 2013 will not be revisited.
to ensure we identified the right salary level for John given The adjustment agreed reflects the changes to the that bonus and LTIP levels are already established for the investment profile supported by analysts and shareholders Chief Executive Officer position and had been approved and ensures that the management group affected circa 200 by shareholders at the 2013 AGm.
In doing this we took employees are in the same position as they would have into account not only key market indicators but also Johns been had the original plan and targets remained unchanged.
experience, both in the industry and in senior roles in Travis The Committee is satisfied that the adjusted targets Perkins, and the rigorous selection process which ultimately are no less demanding than the targets agreed under the led to his appointment.
We were pleased that the majority of previous corporate plan.
These will be reviewed and the our major shareholders confirmed their support to both the outcomes reported to shareholders at the time the relevant salary level of 660,000 per annum and the rationale for it.
performance measures are tested in 2015 2016.
Whilst some shareholders indicated a general preference for substantial pay increases to be implemented in two stages remUneration eLsewhere in the GroUp there was recognition that this appointment had been The Committee takes into account remuneration packages planned and managed over a few years as demonstrated available to all colleagues when considering executive by Johns increased responsibilities in the role of Deputy pay.
As with many companies, senior management TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
