Whitbread plc, and is currently Chief Executive of Costa a work in progress, but should be completed this may.
As a 61 Coffee, part of Whitbread.
In view of the pending retirement Board, we still need to spend more time on management over the next three years of three of our four non-executive succession and development beyond the senior team.
directors, and in order to secure continuity during this period Finally, we continued to involve appropriate and challenging of change, John Colemans appointment was extended external expertise in Board discussions.
beyond his normal retirement date of February 2014.
This Turning to 2013, when we once again conducted an extension will be for a maximum of one year and major internal performance review.
This entailed each director and shareholders were consulted on this well in advance.
the Company Secretary completing a questionnaire about the performance of the Board and its committees, followed Induction by individual interviews with myself.
Following a separate We have an induction process for new directors, which is meeting with Egon Zehnder to compare best practice, facilitated by the Company Secretary General Counsel.
and referred to above, I prepared a report for the Board in In particular, this includes a programme of meetings December.
Additionally, the Senior Independent Director also with senior management in both operations and central conducted a review of my own performance.
functions, and visits to a range of branches and stores.
I As a result, the Board determined that it had effectively ensure that all directors receive appropriate training on managed the achievement of the Companys objectives appointment and then subsequently as required, taking into during the year, that the mix of knowledge and skills among account the need to update their skills and their knowledge Board members were appropriate, and that the Board of the Companys business.
Non-executive directors are worked cohesively.
also regularly provided with information on forthcoming For 2014, the following areas for focus, among others, legal and regulatory changes and corporate governance were identified: developments, and briefings on the key risks facing the Continuing to manage non-executive succession Company, including those identified in the Statement of Honing board processes Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 39 to 41.
Refreshing the Companys risk processes In 2014, an external review of the Boards performance will Executive mentoring by non-executive directors be conducted.
Each non-executive director is allocated to one or more of the Groups businesses and one of the Groups central Re-election functions.
The precise mentoring process is for each At the AGm, all directors will submit themselves for non-executive director to decide, but involves contact and re-election.
As a result of the board evaluation exercise, meetings with the management of the allocated businesses as Chairman I am satisfied that each director continues or functions, and site visits.
The intention is to give the to show the necessary level of commitment to the Group, non-executive directors a better understanding of our and has sufficient time available to fulfil his or her duties, to businesses and functions, their people and strategies, while justify their re-election.
The other directors, in a process led allowing them to use their skills and experience to bring a by the Senior Independent Director, have reached a similar fresh, independent, viewpoint to those parts of the Group.
view in regard to my own re-election.
This mentoring arrangement will continue in 2014.
The Board believes that there is presently a blend of skills and experience among the non-executive directors, Evaluation of board performance which is appropriate for the Group.
The skills required Each year, the Board undertakes an evaluation of its for our Board, include experience in the merchanting and performance and the performance of its committees and retail sectors, capital project and m&A evaluation and individual directors.
The Boards policy is to engage an experience of international markets, as well as the essential external facilitator to assist this process every three years.
In understanding of financial controls and accounting 2007 and 2011, the Boards performance was reviewed background.
An understanding of information technology externally by Egon Zehnder.
The Board had no conflict is increasingly important.
of interest with Egon Zehnder, who have conducted over 400 external reviews, significantly more than most other 3. aCCoUntabiLity comparable practitioners.
In the Boards experience, finding qualified practitioners in this area has been particularly A review of the performance of the Groups businesses challenging.
many companies have emerged to provide this and the financial position of the Group is included in the service, with little or no experience in boardroom practice Strategic Report on pages 20 to 30.
The Board uses the and little demonstrable value added: in a sense taking your Strategic Report to present a full assessment of the Groups watch to tell you what the time is.
We welcome the recent position and prospects, its business model, and its strategy initiative to develop a code of practice in this area, although for delivering that model.
The Directors responsibilities for the first draft circulated in February 2014 is unsatisfactory.
the financial statements are described on page 88.
In 2012, the Board carried out an internal review of its performance.
Reviewing the actions identified at that time, Going concern the Board has generally performed well on most, if not all, After reviewing the Groups forecasts and risk assessments items.
Executive succession has been comprehensively and making other enquiries, the Directors have formed a managed and progress is underway on future non-executive judgement at the time of approving the financial statements, succession.
Considerable time was invested in group and that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and individual strategic business initiatives including an externally the Company have adequate resources to continue in facilitated process of challenge: this led to a Capital operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this markets day presentation on 3 December 2013.
Further reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in streamlining our financial reporting for the Board remains preparing the financial statements.
