CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Executive 60 No.
Walker 10 4 5 3 3 - 1 2 3 4 5 Appointed April 2013, Retired September 2013, Retired February 2013, Retired may 2013, Appointed September 2013 Board committees and fast moving nature of the markets in which the Group We have five board committees: the Audit Committee, the operates, our preference in seeking future non-executives, Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee, the is to attract individuals who have had significant Profit and Health & Safety Committee and the Executive Committee, Loss experience as CFOs or CEOs: additional expertise in which operate within defined terms of reference, which areas relevant to the Groups businesses is also valuable.
These are available on the Companys We support the principles of the Davies Review and the website or may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
need for a diverse board, although we do not intend to The minutes of committee meetings are circulated to all commit to specific quotas.
We use search firms who will the Directors.
abide by the voluntary code of conduct which followed the The Executive Committee is chaired by the Group CEO Davies Review.
Our diversity policy is summarised in the and its members are listed on page 58.
Other executives Nominations Committee Report.
are invited to attend from time to time in relation to specific Non-executive directors are appointed for a period of matters.
The main purpose of this Committee is to assist three years, at the end of which the appointment may the executive directors in the performance of their duties in be renewed by mutual agreement.
It is the Boards policy relation in particular to: that non-executive directors should generally serve for six Strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets years two three-year terms and that any term beyond this The monitoring of operational and financial performance should be subject to a rigorous review.
This review takes into The assessment and control of risk account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board, The prioritisation and allocation of resources maintenance of a balance of skills and experience and the On occasions during 2013, sub-committees of the particular requirements of the Company at the time of the Executive Committee met to carry out more detailed possible extension.
Non-executive directors do not have a service contract, but each has received a letter of appointment.
These 2. effeCtiveness appointments expire on the following dates, and the length of service at that date is also shown.
The Board is satisfied that I and the non-executive directors are all independent.
In particular, none of the specific Ruth Anderson October 2014 3 years circumstances set out in Code provision B.
Appointments of new directors are made by the Board on John Coleman February 2014 9 years the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
I chair Christopher Rogers August 2016 3 years that Committee and all the other members are independent non-executive directors.
A report of the Committees work in Andrew Simon February 2015 9 years 2013 is on pages 83 to 84.
Robert Walker September 2015 6 years Appointments of non-executive directors Our policy is to recruit people of the highest calibre, with The letters of appointment will be available for inspection at a breadth of skills and experience appropriate for the the Annual General meeting.
The Groups businesses, both trade and During 2013 Christopher Rogers joined the Board.
Given the highly competitive Christopher had most recently been Group CFO at TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
