ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING EXPLANATORY NOTES 142 TO THE RESOLUTIONS The Annual General meeting of the Company will be held Resolution 14: Share Matching Scheme 2014 at Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, The Companys existing 2004 Share matching Scheme Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on Wednesday 28 will expire in April 2014.
Consequently, the Remuneration may 2014 at 12.00 noon.
A buffet lunch will be available.
Committee of the Board has undertaken a review of the In addition to the resolutions to approve the receipt of Companys long-term incentive provision, in conjunction with the Companys annual accounts, the declaration of a final its regular review of the Companys overall senior executive dividend, the appointment and re-appointment of the remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee Companys directors, the re-appointment of the Companys believes that the Share matching Scheme encourages the auditor and to give the directors authority to fix the auditors Companys senior management to commit to building up remuneration, the following items are to be proposed at the a shareholding in the Company whilst being incentivised to forthcoming Annual General meeting.
The Board considers deliver key financial targets over the longer term, thereby that all of the resolutions proposed are in the best interests creating a genuinely strong alignment of interests between of the company and of its shareholders as a whole and management and investors.
unanimously recommends that shareholders vote in favour This resolution therefore seeks approval to renew the of all resolutions put before the Annual General meeting.
2004 Share matching Scheme once it expires.
The new Share matching Scheme will be renewed on the same Resolutions 2 and 3: Directors Remuneration Report terms as the 2004 Scheme but with certain amendments including the Remuneration Policy to reflect current corporate governance requirements such New requirements came into force on 1 October 2013 as the introduction of clawback, where the Remuneration in relation to the content and approval of the Directors Committee may recover amounts paid out under the new Remuneration Report.
Scheme in certain adverse circumstances and to assist In accordance with the new requirements, the Directors with the operation and administration of the new Share Remuneration Report which is set out on pages 68 to 82 matching Scheme.
contains i the Remuneration Policy: ii the Annual Report It is intended that the first awards under the new Scheme on remuneration: and iii the annual statement by the will be made in 2015.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The main terms of the new Travis Perkins Share matching Resolution 2 seeks shareholder approval for the Scheme 2014 are summarised in the Appendix to this Remuneration Policy, which can be found on pages 69 Notice on pages 144 to 145. and 70.
The Remuneration Policy sets out the Companys future policy on directors remuneration and is subject to Resolution 15: Renewal of authority to allot shares a binding shareholder vote by ordinary resolution at least Paragraph a of this resolution would give the directors the every three years.
authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal If Resolution 2 is approved, the Remuneration Policy will amount equal to 8,229,844.90 representing 82,298,449 take effect from the end of the AGm, with the intention ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
This amount represents that it will remain in place for three years.
If the Company approximately one-third of the issued ordinary share wishes to change the Remuneration Policy within that three 2014, the latest capital of the Company as at 25 February year period, it will submit a revised remuneration policy to practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In line with guidance issued by the Association of British Once the Remuneration Policy is approved, all payments Insurers the ABI, paragraph b of this resolution would give by the Company to current, prospective or former directors the directors authority to allot ordinary shares in connection in their capacity as directors will be made in line with with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders up to the Remuneration Policy or following specific approval by an aggregate nominal amount equal to 16,459,689.90 shareholder resolution.
representing 164,596,899 ordinary shares of 10p each, Until the Remuneration Policy takes effect, payments will as reduced by the nominal amount of any shares issued continue to be made to directors and former directors in under paragraph a of this resolution.
This amount before their capacity as directors in line with existing contractual any reduction represents approximately two-thirds of arrangements until that date.
the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at Resolution 3 is an ordinary resolution which seeks 25 February 2014, the latest practicable date prior to shareholder approval for the Directors Remuneration Report publication of this Notice.
The authorities sought under other than the part containing the Remuneration Policy, paragraphs a and b of this resolution will expire at which can be found on pages 68 to 82 and gives details of the earlier of 30 June 2015 the last date by which the the implementation of the Companys current remuneration Company must hold an Annual General meeting in 2015 policy during the year ended 31 December 2013. and the conclusion of the Annual General meeting of the The vote upon this resolution is advisory.
The vote is Company held in 2015.
If this authority is exercised, the not specific to individual levels of remuneration and the directors intend to follow ABI guidance issued from time directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on it.
to time, including as to the re-election of directors.
It is now our practice to propose all directors for annual re-election at TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 each Annual General meeting in accordance with the Code.
matter of routine for general meetings, but only where the 143 The directors have no present intention to exercise either flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is of the authorities sought under this resolution, except, under thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
paragraph a, to satisfy options under the Companys Examples of when it might be appropriate to call a general employee share option schemes.
meeting at 14 clear days notice include when emergency capital raising proposals or other price sensitive transactions Resolution 16: Limited authority to allot shares for cash are being put to shareholders for approval.
The approval will This resolution would give the directors the authority to be effective until the Companys Annual General meeting in allot ordinary shares or sell any ordinary shares which the 2015, when it is expected that a similar resolution will be Company elects to hold in treasury for cash without first proposed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 in order to be offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their able to call a general meeting on less than 21 clear days existing shareholdings.
notice, the Company must make a means of electronic Except as provided in the next paragraph, this authority voting available to all shareholders.
would be limited to allotments or sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders of other equity Resolution 18: Authority to purchase own shares securities if required by the rights of those shares or as The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares the board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise of 10 pence each granted at last years Annual General up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,234,476.70 meeting will expire on the date of the forthcoming Annual representing 12,344,767 ordinary shares.
The directors wish to renew this authority aggregate nominal amount represents approximately 5% and a special resolution, which is set out in full in the Notice of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as of Annual General meeting on page 141, will be proposed at 25 February 2014, the latest practicable date prior at the forthcoming Annual General meeting to give the to publication of this Notice.
In respect of this aggregate Company the authority to purchase its own ordinary shares nominal amount, the directors confirm their intention to in the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement The authority limits the number of shares that could be of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities purchased to a maximum of 24,689,534 representing within a rolling 3-year period where the Principles provide approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without the Company as at 25 February 2014 and sets minimum prior consultation with shareholders.
This authority will expire no later than Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph 30 June 2015. b of Resolution 15 would be limited to allotments by way The directors consider that it is in the best interests of of a rights issue only subject to the right of the Board to the Company to have available this authorisation, in case impose necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for of circumstances when it would be appropriate to use it.
example, fractional entitlements and regulatory matters.
They would only use it after consideration of the effect The authority will expire at the earlier of 30 June 2015 on earnings per share and the longer-term benefit for the the last date by which the Company must hold an Annual Company and shareholders generally.
The fact that such General meeting in 2015 and the conclusion of the Annual authorisation is being sought should not be taken to imply General meeting of the Company held in 2015.
Any that shares would be purchased at any particular price or issue of shares for cash will, however, still be subject to the indeed at all.
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
authority may either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the Company, depending on which course of action is Resolution 17: Notice of Meetings considered by the directors to be in the best interests of The Companies Act 2006 requires that the notice period shareholders at the time.
for general meetings of a company is 21 days unless certain As at 25 February 2014, there were options over requirements are satisfied, including that shareholders 10,558.638 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, approve a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than which represent 4.28% of the Companys issued ordinary 14 clear days.
At the Annual General meeting held in 2013, share capital excluding any treasury shares.
If the full shareholders approved a notice period for general meetings authority to purchase own shares were to be used, and the other than AGms of not less than 14 clear days effective shares cancelled, these outstanding options would represent until the Annual General meeting to be held in 2014.
This approximately 4.75% of the Companys issued ordinary resolution is proposed to allow the Company to continue to share capital excluding any treasury shares as at that call general meetings other than Annual General meetings date.
As at 25 February 2014, the Company did not hold on 14 clear days notice.
The directors believe it is in the best any treasury shares in the Company and no warrants over interests of the shareholders of the Company to preserve ordinary shares in the capital of the Company existed.
the shorter notice period and accordingly are proposing this resolution, to be proposed as a special resolution to the Directions to Northampton Rugby Football Club can be meeting.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a found on page 148.
