NOTES TO THE NOTICE 146 OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 1 A form of proxy is enclosed and instructions for its use proxy form, your share certificate or dividend tax are shown on the form.
The appointment of a proxy will voucher, family name and post code if resident in the not prevent a member from subsequently attending, UK.
voting and speaking at the meeting in person, in which case any votes of the proxy will be superseded.
6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment 2 A member of the Company is entitled to appoint a service may do by using the procedures described in proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak the CREST manual.
and vote at a general meeting of the Company.
A CREST personal members or other CREST member may appoint more than one proxy, provided sponsored members, and those CREST members that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights who have appointed a voting service provider s attaching to different shares.
A proxy need not be a should refer to their CREST sponsors or voting service member.
provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
3 To appoint more than one proxy, an additional proxy In order for a proxy appointment made by means form s may be obtained by contacting the Registrars or of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message you may photocopy the form.
Please indicate in the box a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly next to the proxy holder's name the number of shares authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & in relation to which they are authorised to act as your Ireland Limited specifications and must contain the proxy.
Please also indicate by ticking the box provided if information required for such instructions, as described the proxy instruction is one of multiple instructions being in the CREST manual.
The message, regardless of given.
All forms must be signed and should be returned whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy together in the same envelope.
or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, 4 The right to appoint a proxy under notes 1 and 2 be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys above does not apply to persons whose shares are agent ID RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of held on their behalf by another person and who proxy appointments 12.00 noon on 26 may 2014. have been nominated to receive communication For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to from the Company in accordance with section 146 be the time as determined by the timestamp applied of the Companies Act 2006 nominated persons.
to the message by the CREST Application Host from Nominated persons may have a right under an which the Companys agent is able to retrieve the agreement with the registered shareholder who holds message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if to proxies appointed through CREST should be nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not communicated to the appointee through other means.
wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST agreement to give instructions to the person holding the sponsors and voting service providers should note shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular 5 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and messages.
Normal system timings and limitations any authority under which it is signed or a notarially will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST certified copy of such authority for the Annual General Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST meeting to be held at Northampton Rugby Football Club, member concerned to take or, if the CREST member Franklins Gardens, Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or 5BQ at 12.00 noon on Wednesday 28 may 2014 has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure and any adjournment s thereof must be returned to that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s Capita Asset Services at PXS, 34 Beckenham Road, take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU, by 12.00 noon on 26 that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST may 2014.
Alternatively you may submit your proxy system by any particular time.
In this connection, form online by accessing the Share Portal at www.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST travisperkins-shares.
com, logging in and selecting the sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in Proxy Voting link.
If you have not previously registered particular, to those sections of the CREST manual for electronic communications, you will first be asked concerning practical limitations of the CREST system to register as a new user, for which you will require your and timings.
The CREST manual can be reviewed at investor code which can be found on the enclosed www.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 The Company may treat as invalid a CREST total voting rights in the Company as at 25 February 147 Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in 2014 was 246,895,349.
Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
11 Any corporation which is a member can appoint one In each case the proxy appointments must be or more corporate representatives who may exercise received by the Company not less than 48 hours on its behalf all of the same powers as the corporation excluding any part of a day that is not a working day could exercise if it were an individual member.
before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
12 Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 members meeting the threshold requirements set out 7 Only those members entered on the register of in that section have the right to require the Company to members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 26 may publish on a website a statement setting out any matter 2014 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting relating to: i the audit of the Company's accounts in respect of the number of shares registered in their including the auditor's report and the conduct of the name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register audit that are to be laid before the meeting: or ii of members after that time shall be disregarded in any circumstance connected with an auditor of the determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at Company ceasing to hold office since the previous the meeting.
meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies 8 Reference to the register means the issuer register Act 2006.
The Company may not require the of members and the Operator register of members shareholders requesting any such website publication maintained in accordance with Regulation 20 of the to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website 9 The following documents will be available for inspection under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it at the Registered Office of the Company during usual must forward the statement to the Company's auditor business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays not later than the time when it makes the statement and public holidays excluded from the date of this available on the website.
The business which may be Notice to the date of the meeting and at Northampton dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that Rugby Football Club from 11.45am on the day of the the Company has been required under section 527 of meeting until the conclusion of the meeting.
the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Copies of contracts of service of directors and non executive directors letters of appointment with the 13 Shareholders and their proxies will have the opportunity Company, or with any of its subsidiary companies.
to ask questions at the meeting.
When invited by the The register of directors interests kept by the Chairman, if you wish to ask a question, please wait for Company.
a Company representative to bring you a microphone.
A copy of the Companys Articles of Association.
It would be helpful if you could state your name before A statement giving particulars of directors relevant you ask your question.
Questions may not be answered transactions.
at the meeting if they are deemed not to be in the A copy of the draft rules of the Travis Perkins Share interests of the Company, or the good order of the matching Scheme 2014.
Copies will also be available meeting, would interfere unduly with the preparation for inspection at the offices of New Bridge Street a for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, 10 Devonshire information, or if the answer has already been given Square, London, EC2m 4YP during usual business on a website.
The Chairman may also nominate hours on any weekday Saturdays and English public a Company representative to answer a specific holidays excepted from the date of this Notice until question after the meeting or refer the response to the the conclusion of the meeting.
10 At 25 February 2014 being the latest practicable 14 A copy of this Notice, and other information required date before publication of this notice the issued share by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be capital of the Company consisted of 246,895,349, found in the Investor Centre at ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
