Notes to the financial statements FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEmBER 2013 Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the 1.
General information 99 financial statements of the Group.
Overview The Directors are currently of the opinion that the Groups forecasts Travis Perkins plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and projections show that the Group should be able to operate within under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office its current facilities and comply with its banking covenants.
The Group is given on page 149.
The nature of the Groups operations and its is, however, exposed to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 55. which could affect the Groups ability to meet managements forecast These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, and projections and hence its ability to meet its banking covenants.
the currency of the primary economic environment in which the The Directors believe that the Group has the flexibility to react to Group operates.
changing market conditions and is adequately placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Basis of accounting Detailed considerations of going concern, risks and uncertainties The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with are provided in the Corporate Governance Report and in the Strategic International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS issued by the Report on pages 61 and 62 and pages 39 to 41 respectively.
International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The financial After making enquiries, the Directors have formed a judgement at the statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Basis of preparation financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historic cost basis, except that derivative financial instruments are stated at 2.
Significant accounting policies their fair value.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and all entities controlled by the Company The principal accounting policies adopted in preparing the financial its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group from the date statements are set out below.
control commences until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company: Revenue recognition Has the power over the investee Revenue is recognised when goods or services are received by the Is exposed or has rights to a variable return from the involvement customer and the risks and rewards of ownership have passed to with the investee them.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received Has the ability to use its power to affect its returns or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and As such, the results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts included in the consolidated income statement from the effective and value added tax.
For the Parent Company, revenue comprises date of acquisition.
management charges receivable and dividend income received.
In the current financial year, the Group has adopted IAS 19 as revised in June 2011 retrospectively and in accordance with the Exceptional items transitional provisions.
As the Group has always recognised actuarial Exceptional items are those items of income and expenditure that gains and losses immediately there is no effect on the prior year by reference to the Group are material in size or unusual in nature or defined benefit obligation and balance sheet disclosure arising from incidence, that in the judgement of the Directors, should be disclosed this change.
IAS 19 revised requires interest cost and return on separately on the face of the financial statements or in the notes in scheme assets calculated under the previous version of IAS 19 to be the case of a segment to ensure both that the reader has a proper replaced with a net interest amount calculated by applying a discount understanding of the Groups financial performance and that there is rate to the net defined liability or asset.
The impact of this revision is comparability of financial performance between periods.
Items of income or expense that are considered by the Directors The following new and revised Standards and interpretations for designation as exceptional items include, but are not limited have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had to, significant restructurings, onerous contracts, write-downs or any significant impacts on the amounts reported in these financial impairments of current and non-current assets, the costs of acquiring statements although disclosures have been amended to reflect new and integrating businesses, gains or losses on disposals of businesses requirements: and investments, re-measurement gains or losses arising from changes IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to the extent that IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures hedge accounting is not achieved or is not effective and pension IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements scheme curtailment gains and the effect of changes in corporation tax IFRS 11 Joint Ventures rates on deferred tax balances.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value measurements Business combinations and goodwill At the date of the approval of these financial statements, the following All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition Standards and Interpretations, which have not yet been applied in these method.
The cost of an acquisition represents the cash value of the financial statements, were in issue, but not yet effective: consideration and or the fair value of the shares issued on the date the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments offer became unconditional.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities IAS 32 amended Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under Liabilities IFRS 3 2008 are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date IFRS 7 amended Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and except that: Financial Liabilities Deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to IAS 36 amendments Recoverable Amount Disclosures for employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in Non-Financial Assets accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits IAS 39 amendments Novation of Derivatives and Continuation of respectively Hedge Accounting Liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Improvements to IFRSs minor amendments Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are measured The Directors anticipate that adoption of these Standards and in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
