NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a 3.
Critical judgements and 102 transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
key sources of estimation and uncertainty Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised.
Deferred accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The preparation of tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it financial statements requires the Directors to make estimates and relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts of the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
Future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty.
Retirement benefit costs Therefore, the determination of estimates requires the exercise of Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are judgement based on various assumptions and other factors such as recognised as an expense when employees have rendered services historical experience, current and expected economic conditions.
The entitling them to the contributions.
Directors frequently re-evaluate these significant factors and make For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is adjustments where facts and circumstances dictate.
The Directors determined using the projected unit credit method with actuarial believe that the following accounting policies are critical due to the valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period.
degree of estimation required and or the potential material impact Re-measurement comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effects they may have on the Groups financial position and performance.
of asset ceilings and minimum funding payments and the return on scheme assets excluding interest are recognised immediately Income taxes in the balance sheet with a charge or credit to the statement of The Group is subject to the income tax laws of the United Kingdom.
Re-measurement recorded in the statement These laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by of comprehensive income is not recycled.
Net interest is calculated by taxpayers and tax authorities.
When establishing income tax provisions, applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Net the Directors make a number of judgements and interpretations about interest expense or income is recognised within finance costs.
the application and interaction of these laws.
Changes in these tax Where the Group is committed to pay additional contributions under laws or in their interpretation could affect the Groups effective tax rate a minimum funding arrangement and it has no unconditional right and the results of operations in a given period.
Accordingly, potentially to receive any surplus in a winding up of the scheme, the pension significant tax benefits will not be recognised until there is sufficient obligation recognised in the financial statements is the higher of the certainty that they will be accepted by HmRC.
IAS 19 revised 2011 obligation or the net present value of future minimum funding payments, discounted using the IAS 19 revised 2011 discount rate, to which the Group is unconditionally committed.
Cash Generating Units The Directors consider that individual assets do not generate cash Employee share incentive plans flows that are largely independent of those from other assets and The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-Based consequently that, for the purposes of impairment testing, each branch Payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has in the Group is a cash generating unit.
Impairment testing of property been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November plant and equipment is carried out at individual branch level.
Goodwill 2002 that were unvested at 1 January 2005. and other intangibles impairment testing is carried out at brand level as The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain described in note 13. employees long-term incentives, executive share options and Save as You Earn.
These payments are measured at fair value at the date Goodwill and other intangible assets of grant by the use of the Black Scholes option-pricing model taking In testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of goodwill and into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were intangible assets is determined by reference to the value in use of the granted.
The cost of equity-settled awards is recognised on a straightCGU grouping to which they are attributed.
In addition the Directors line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the have made certain assumptions concerning discount rates and the number of shares that will eventually vest.
future development of the business that are consistent with its fiveyear strategic plan.
Whilst the Directors consider their assumptions Provisions to be realistic, should actual results, including those for market A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a volume changes, be different from expectations, for instance due to present legal or constructive obligation because of a past event, and a worsening of the UK economy, then it is possible that the value of it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to goodwill and intangible assets included in the balance sheet could settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best become impaired.
estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the The pre-tax discount rate is derived from the Groups weighted balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the average cost of capital WACC calculated by the Groups advisors.
WACC is based upon the risk free rate for ten-year UK gilts, adjusted for the UK market risk premium, which reflects the increased risk of Equity instruments and own shares investing in UK equities and the relative volatilities of the equity of the Equity instruments represent the ordinary share capital of the Group Group compared to the market as a whole.
In arriving at the discount and are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of directly rate the Directors have applied an adjustment to reflect their view of attributable incremental issue costs.
the relative risk of the Groups operations.
Further details concerning the Consideration paid by the Group for its own shares is deducted from judgements made by the Directors in respect of goodwill and intangible total shareholders equity.
Where such shares vest to employees under assets and the impairment testing thereof, are given in note 13. the terms of the Groups share incentive schemes or the Groups share save schemes or are sold, any consideration received is included in Pension assumptions shareholders equity.
The Group has chosen to adopt assumptions that the Directors believe are generally in line with comparable companies.
If the future return Dividends on equities, applied to the pension scheme liabilities, is lower than Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the period anticipated, or if the difference between actual inflation and the actual end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been increase in pensionable salaries is greater than that assumed, or if approved by shareholders at the Annual General meeting.
long term interest rates were lower than assumed, or if the average life TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
