APPENDIX TO NOTICE OF 144 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Summary of principal terms of the Travis Perkins Share participant or his her spouse and will not be subject to matching Scheme 2014 the Scheme forfeiture under the Scheme.
Operation Performance conditions The remuneration committee of the board of directors of the The vesting of awards will be subject to performance Company the Committee will supervise the operation of conditions set by the Committee.
The first awards to be granted under the Scheme in 2015 will be based on the average cash return on capital Eligibility employed CROCE of the Company over a performance Any employee of the Company and its subsidiaries will be period of three financial years.
The extent to which the eligible to participate in the Scheme at the discretion of 2015 awards will vest will be based on threshold and the Committee.
maximum performance levels determined in accordance with the Companys three year business plan and projections.
Grant of awards If performance is below threshold, the award will lapse.
The Committee may grant awards to acquire ordinary At threshold performance, 30% of the award will vest.
shares in the Company Shares within six weeks following This increases to 100% vesting for maximum levels of the Companys announcement of its results for any period.
performance, with straight-line vesting in between these points.
The Committee may also grant awards within six weeks There will be no retesting of the performance condition of shareholder approval of the Scheme or at any other and the awards will lapse to the extent that the performance time when the Committee considers there are exceptional condition is not met at the end of the performance period.
circumstances which justify the granting of awards.
It is The Committee can set different performance conditions intended that the first awards under the Scheme will be from those described above for future awards provided that, made in 2015. in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, the new targets The Committee may grant awards as conditional shares, are not materially more or less difficult to satisfy than the a nil or nominal cost option or as forfeitable shares.
The original conditions were considered to be at the date of grant Committee may also decide to grant cash-based awards of the awards.
of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy The Committee may also vary the performance share-based awards in cash, although it does not currently conditions applying to existing awards if an event has intend to do so.
occurred which causes the Committee to consider that it An award may not be granted more than three years after would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, shareholder approval of the Scheme.
provided the Committee considers the varied conditions No payment is required for the grant of an award other are fair and reasonable and not materially more or less than the investment of funds in Shares as described below.
challenging than the original conditions would have been but Awards are not transferable, except on death.
Awards are for the event in question.
Vesting of awards Investment Shares Awards normally vest three years after grant to the extent An award will be made in conjunction with the investment of that the applicable performance conditions see above have an individuals funds from any source in Shares Investment been satisfied, the Investment Shares have been retained by Shares.
The maximum amount which an individual may the participant or his her spouse and provided they are invest in Investment Shares in any financial year is 50% of still employed in the Companys group.
Awards in the form their post-tax salary.
of options are then usually exercisable up until the tenth After the Investment Shares have been purchased, the anniversary of grant unless they lapse earlier.
Company will grant an award over a number of Shares On the vesting of an award, the participant or his which shall not exceed two times the number of Investment her spouse will be able to sell or otherwise transfer his Shares grossed up for income tax at a rate of 45% or such her related Investment Shares, subject to any shareholding other rate as the Committee may determine.
requirement which may apply to him her.
Once purchased, the participant may transfer the If a participant transfers, charges or otherwise disposes ownership of their Investment Shares to his her spouse or of their Investment Shares before the vesting of the award civil partner spouse.
associated with those Investment Shares, then that award will The Investment Shares will either be held by a nominee lapse pro-rata to the number of related Investment Shares on behalf of the participant or his her spouse or the so treated.
participant will allow their holding of Investment Shares including any Investment Shares held by his her spouse to Dividend equivalents be monitored by the Company.
The Committee may decide that participants will receive a Investment Shares will remain the property of the payment in cash and or Shares on or shortly following the TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 vesting or exercise of their awards, of an amount equivalent Rights attaching to Shares 145 to the dividends that would have been paid on those Any Shares allotted when an award vests or is exercised Shares between the time when the awards were granted will rank equally with Shares then in issue except for rights and the time when they vest.
This amount may assume arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine on or before grant that participants may Variation of capital have their awards increased as if dividends were paid on In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital the Shares subject to their award and then reinvested in or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend further Shares.
or similar event which materially affects the market price of the Shares, the Committee may make such adjustment as it Leaving employment considers appropriate to the number of Shares subject to an As a general rule, an award will lapse upon a participant award and or the exercise price payable if any.
ceasing to hold employment or be a director within the In relation to Investment Shares, a participant will be Companys group.
However, if a participant ceases to be an treated on the same terms as any other shareholder and, employee or a director because of death, ill-health, injury, in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, disability, retirement, redundancy, their employing company the participant or his her spouse may, if appropriate, or the business for which they work being sold out of the increase the number of his her Investment Shares by Companys group or in other circumstances at the discretion adding any further Shares acquired by virtue of his her of the Committee, then their award will vest.
The number of Shares in any Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the date on corresponding award may be adjusted accordingly.
which, and the extent to which, an award will vest in these circumstances will depend upon two factors: i the extent Overall Scheme limits to which the performance condition has been satisfied up to The Scheme may operate over new issue Shares, treasury the end of the financial year in which the participant leaves: Shares or Shares purchased in the market.
and ii the pro-rating of the award to reflect the reduced In any ten calendar year period, the Company may not period of time between its grant and the date of cessation of issue or grant rights to issue more than: the participants employment or office.
10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the Scheme and any other employee Corporate events share scheme adopted by the Company: and In the event of a takeover or winding up of the Company b.
5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the not being an internal corporate reorganisation all awards Company under the Scheme and any other executive will vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance share scheme adopted by the Company.
conditions have been satisfied at that time: and ii the Treasury Shares will count as new issue Shares for the pro-rating of the awards to reflect the reduced period of time purposes of these limits unless institutional investors decide between their grant and vesting, although the Committee that they need not count.
can decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Alterations to the Scheme In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation awards The Committee may, at any time, amend the Scheme in any will be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders is new holding company unless the Committee decides that obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of awards should vest on the basis which would apply in the participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits case of a takeover.
on participation, the overall limits on the issue of Shares or the transfer of Treasury Shares, the basis for determining a Clawback participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the Shares or The Committee may decide, before or within three years of cash to be acquired and the adjustment of awards.
vesting, that a participants award will be subject to clawback The requirement to obtain the prior approval of where there has been a misstatement of the Companys shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor financial results, an error in assessing any applicable alteration made to benefit the administration of the performance condition or if the participants employment Scheme, to take account of a change in legislation or to is terminated for gross misconduct.
The Committee obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or may require the satisfaction of the clawback by way of a regulatory treatment for participants or for any company reduction in future bonuses, the vesting of any subsisting or in the Companys group.
Shareholder approval will also future awards granted under the Scheme or under certain not be required for any amendments to any performance other share incentive plans and or a requirement to make a condition applying to an award.
Overseas schemes Participants rights The shareholder resolution to approve the Scheme will Awards of conditional shares and options will not confer allow the Board to establish further schemes for overseas any shareholder rights until the awards have vested or the territories, any such scheme to be similar to the Scheme, options have been exercised and the participants have but modified to take account of local tax, exchange control received their Shares.
Holders of awards of forfeitable or securities laws, provided that any Shares made available Shares will have shareholder rights from when the awards under such further schemes are treated as counting are made except they may be required to waive their rights against the limits on individual and overall participation in to receive dividends.
