participate in a wider range of incentives than the majority In 2013 around 1,750 colleagues shared close to 20m 71 of colleagues.
We recognise that we have to operate on this of gains from five and three year schemes which matured basis to attract and retain high-quality managers.
The gain for each employee vesting All colleagues are entitled to a competitive remuneration at the maximum level in the five year scheme was around package that includes basic pay, bonus, pension, life 50,000.
Following the invitation for the new 2013 assurance cover, Sharesave, Buy as You Earn shares, Sharesave plan over 8,500 2012: 7,500 colleagues are colleague discount, tax-efficient benefits such as childcare active Sharesave participants.
vouchers and the cycle-to-work scheme, a range of It only remains for me to thank all the shareholders we voluntary benefits, and paid annual leave.
have connected with over the last year for their time and In order to improve the accessibility, understanding input to the main change issues we consulted them on and and take up of these benefits we launched our colleague which are described above.
I hope that by listening and benefits brand PERKS during the year.
It has provided carefully considering the range of different views expressed improved communication opportunities and helps we have reached a mutually acceptable outcome for 2013 colleagues view and value their total employment which our shareholders feel able to support.
We intend to expand this initiative during 2014, increasing the range of benefits on Andrew Simon offer and further enhancing how these are communicated Chairman, Remuneration Committee and delivered to our colleagues.
25 February 2014 Over 19,000 colleagues are active members of a group pension scheme.
Contribution rates made by the 2. poLiCy report Group range from 1% to 20% of salary under the defined Our remuneration policies are not unique to our directors.
contribution scheme whilst over 2,300 colleagues are The same principles underpin how we reward and active members of a defined benefit scheme where compensate all our colleagues.
We aim to provide base company contribution rates are currently 8.8% for the pay to all colleagues that is market competitive.
We provide BSS Group scheme and 12.1% for the Travis Perkins all colleagues with the opportunity to share in our success scheme.
Other than Tony Buffin, the executive directors through a variety of bonuses and incentive schemes where are not active members of a company pension scheme, return on capital employed measures aligns colleagues primarily as a consequence of recent changes in tax from store and branch operations to the CEO.
Instead, the Company pays a gross cash allowance all colleagues with the opportunity to prepare for retirement of 25% of salary.
As this allowance is fully taxed, unlike through participation in our pension plan and our PERKS the contributions to an approved pension scheme, the colleague benefit brand launched in 2013, covering flexible equivalent net benefit for executive directors is currently benefits, employee discounts, health and welfare benefits 13.25% of salary.
The allowance is not considered as and risk and insurance benefits is all inclusive.
salary for the purposes of any benefits or incentive plans.
How our policies specifically apply to directors is detailed Tony Buffin receives paid pension contributions and paid below.
Subject to shareholder approval these policies will allowances totalling 25% of salary.
It is intended that the policies will Our Sharesave scheme continues to be a great success.
apply for three years from the date of approval.
fUtUre poLiCy tabLe Link to Maximum Performance Remuneration strategy Operation potential value metrics Committee discretion remuneration element base salary Core element Reviewed annually as at 1 January.
The Remuneration None The Committee of total Factors influencing decision include: Committee The retains discretion package, Role, experience and individual Committee normally to award salaries essential performance considers the relevant of above median to support Pay awards elsewhere in the Group market median as the levels or increases recruitment External market benchmarked maximum salary level in excess of the and retention against the FTSE 75-125 required.
general population of high calibre companies In the normal course where necessary to executives.
General economic environment of events the maximum attract high calibre salary increase for candidates, to executive directors will be reflect performance in line with the general and recognise employee increase.
changes in roles and responsibilities.
The Committee retains discretion to review the appropriate peer comparator group used for benchmarking.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Link to Maximum Performance Remuneration 72 strategy Operation potential value metrics Committee discretion remuneration element benefits - maintain Directors are currently entitled to: Benefit levels reflect None competitive Private medical insurance those typically available package Income protection to senior managers within with range of Annual leave up to 30 days the Group and may be benefits for the Fully expensed company car or cash subject to minor change.
director and alternative The maximum potential their family.
Life insurance of up to 5 times salary.
value being the cost to the Company to provide those benefits.
remuneration element pension - Helps No director actively participates in a 25% allowance or None executives defined benefit pension scheme.
provide for to 25% of salary is provided either as retirement and a cash allowance or as part allowance aids retention.
Cash allowances are paid gross and after statutory deductions provide a net benefit of 13.25% of salary.
Pension allowances will not be included in the salary figure to be used to calculate bonus or the level of award under long term incentive plans.
remuneration element deferred share bonus plan Rewards Targets are set annually in line with the maximum bonus Bonus measures The Committee achievement performance metrics see aside.
opportunity under the include: retains the of annual Total bonus level is determined after plan is 180% of annual Financial targets discretion to review financial and the year end, based on achievement of salary.
relating to profitability the weighting of key business targets.
and return on capital measures and to set strategy 50% of the total bonus is paid in Individual or group the performance objectives.
cash within 4 months of the year end.
targets pertaining targets and ranges Rewards The remainder of the bonus is deferred to delivery of the for each metric personal as shares.
business strategy including the longperformance Bonus deferred as shares is subject Financial targets are term equity rate measured to forfeiture if target share prices are based on the Groups of return which against key not achieved.
Target share prices are Annual Operating determines the objectives.
based upon the average share price Plan AOP with the rate of vesting of Deferred during the bonus year inclusive of a bonus threshold and the deferred bonus element compounded long-term equity rate of maximum bonus set element.
equidistantly around For financial longer term The deferred shares are split into two AOP.
Threshold will targets the shareholding equal tranches.
Tranche 1 vests if after be a maximum of 5% Committee will and aligns 1 year, by comparison to the highest below AOP.
determine the reward to 30 day average share price during the Performance below amount of bonus shareholder period the target share price is met.
If threshold results in which can be earned interests.
the target share price is not met 50% zero bonus.
Bonus for achievement Claw-back of tranche 1 is forfeited.
earned rises from 0% of the AOP.
This and forfeiture Tranche 2 vests if after two years, to 100% of maximum determination will provisions by comparison to the highest 30 day bonus opportunity for be based upon an discourage average share price during the period levels of performance assessment of the excessive the target share price is met.
If the between threshold and degree of difficulty in risk taking target share price is not met at the maximum targets.
achieving the AOP and short end of two years 50% of tranche 2 is Performance taking into account term outlook forfeited.
conditions and market conditions, ensuring that In determining achievement of target weightings are set out improvement executive and share prices dividends paid during the in the Statement of on prior year shareholder period will be added.
Implementation of the performance interests are Dividend equivalents on vesting Remuneration Policy in required, and other aligned.
TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Link to Maximum Performance Remuneration 73 strategy Operation potential value metrics Committee discretion remuneration element performance share plan Incentivises Awards are granted The Performance measures are: The Committee participants in the form of nil cost maximum EPS Growth retains discretion to deliver key options or a mix of annual Aggregate cash-flow to review the financial targets nil cost options and award for Relative TSR weighting applied over a longer approved options at all executive Vesting criteria for aggregate cash-flow is set to measures, and term, with market price, annually directors is against a range based on threshold and maximum to set the target particular focus to participants.
150% of performance levels determined by the Groups ranges for each on shareholder Awards vest after salary.
projections for the next 3 years.
return and the 3 years subject to TSR awards are measured against an In addition the generation of cash achievement of appropriate peer group.
Committee will to fund investment performance measures EPS growth targets are set as a % growth range review and select in growth and long see aside.
in addition to RPI over 3 years.
Participation may Performance below threshold levels results in comparator group Helps retain be scaled back where zero vesting.
At threshold the amount of the award for the TSR, or high performing the shareholding vesting rises from 30% to 100% of maximum similar, measures.
requirement set by the bonus opportunity for levels of performance Committee is not met.
between threshold and maximum targets.
Dividend equivalents Performance conditions and weightings are set on vesting shares may out in the Statement of Implementation of the be paid.
Remuneration Policy in 2014. remuneration element share matching scheme Encourages Participants are invited Participants Performance target is Cash Return on Capital The Committee a mutual to participate annually.
retains discretion commitment Each participant buys up to 50% Vesting range is based on threshold and to review the whereby shares from their own of their post maximum performance levels based upon the weighting applied participants resources.
Companys business plan and projections for the to measures, and build up a A matching share maximum next 3 years.
to set the target shareholding in award in the form of nil matching is Performance below the threshold results in zero ranges for each the Company and cost options is made to 2:1 100% vesting.
At threshold the amount of the award measure.
are incentivised each participant, which of salary.
vesting rises from 30% to 100% of maximum to deliver key vests after 3 years bonus opportunity for levels of performance financial targets subject to achievement between threshold and maximum targets.
Performance conditions are set out in the Helps retain high Dividend equivalents Statement of Implementation of the Remuneration calibre executives.
on vesting shares may Policy in 2014. be paid.
remuneration element special award for John Carter A one-off award Structured as a nil cost The award The performance conditions which have - made following share option.
The award was made been achieved, were linked to procurement consultation vests in equal tranches over improvement initiatives agreed annually by the with principal after completion of years 47,612 Remuneration Committee together with delivery of shareholders in four, five and six the first shares.
John Carters objectives as part of Travis Perkins 2009 year being 2009. strategic plan.
remuneration element co-investment special award for tony buffin A one-off award Investment of own funds The award Fulfilment of specific functional objectives - made following to acquire 500,000 of was made as defined by the CEO and assessed by the consultation Company shares.
with principal A matching share 65,804 coshareholders in award in the form of nil investment 2013 reflecting cost options is made shares.
compensation half vesting 12 months forfeited on from grant, half vesting appointment to 24 months from grant.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Link to Maximum Performance Remuneration 74 strategy Operation potential value metrics Committee discretion remuneration element all employee share plans Share plans available HmRC SAYE and BAYE plans.
In line with None - to all employees to HmRC encourage wider and all share ownership colleague and engagement plan limits.
amongst colleagues remuneration element shareholding requirements Aligns the interests Formal requirement not voluntary guidelines applies - Executive The Committee of executives and to directors and senior executives.
Participation in longdirectors are retains discretion shareholders.
term incentives may be scaled back or withheld if the required to hold to increase requirements are not met or maintained.
shares valued at shareholding For the purposes of assessing compliance with the two times salary requirements.
shareholding requirement vested, but unexercised awards within 5 years.
In considering appropriate performance metrics the non-exeCUtive direCtors fees Committee seeks to incentivise and reinforce delivery of the Non-executive directors fees are positioned in line with the Companys strategic objectives achieving a balance between same peer comparator group used for executive directors delivering annual return to shareholders and ensuring at median level.
The following fees were reviewed in 2013, sustainable long term profitability and growth.
measures and notwithstanding peer group comparison, will normally will therefore reflect a balance of direct shareholder value, be reviewed on an annual basis in line with inflation and such as TSR and those which reflect appropriate investment general movement of pay within the Company.
The Committee calibrates these targets by due reference Fee type Fee to general and bespoke market intelligence, lead indicators Chairman 270,000 and other indicators of the economic environment to ensure targets represent relative, as well as absolute, achievement.
Basic fee for other non-executive directors 55,000 disCretion Chair of Audit Committee 12,000 The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy Chair of Remuneration Committee 12,000 as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant Chair of Health & Safety Committee 4,000 plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those Senior Independent Director 10,000 rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
A minimum of 25% of non-executive director fees are paid The Committee retains discretion in exceptional in shares.
Non-executive directors do not receive any other circumstances to change performance measures and benefits other than a staff discount card for purchasing targets and the weightings attached to performance products and are not eligible to join a company pension measures part-way through a performance year if there scheme.
No compensation is payable on termination of is a significant and material event which causes the their employment, which may be without notice from the Committee to believe the original measures, weightings Company.
They cannot participate in any of the Companys and targets are no longer appropriate.
Any exercise of share plans.
this discretion will be explained in full to shareholders.
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the reCrUitment remUneration Committee believe that the outcome is not a fair and It is our policy to recruit the best candidate possible for any accurate reflection of business performance.
We seek to avoid paying more It is the Committees intention that commitments made than necessary to secure the candidate and will have regard in line with its policies prior to the date of the 2014 AGm to guidelines and shareholder sentiment when formulating will be honoured, even if satisfaction of such commitments the remuneration package.
is made post the AGm and may be inconsistent with the Generally we structure salary, incentives and benefits for above policies.
Such commitments include, but are not candidates in line with the above remuneration policy and limited to: accordingly participation in short and long term incentives Awards under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan will be on the same basis as existing directors.
In all cases we Awards under the Performance Share Plan commit to providing shareholders with timely disclosure of Awards under the Share matching Plan the terms of any new executive hires including the approach Such commitments remain subject to the share plan rules taken to determine a fair level of compensation.
The table on and terms and conditions under which they were granted.
the next page outlines our normal recruitment policy: TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 Where an internal candidate is promoted to an executive 75 Base salary and benefits position we will honour any contractual commitments made The pay of any new recruit would be assessed following through their employment prior to the promotion.
the principles set out in the remuneration policy table.
Recruitment remuneration for non-executive directors would be assessed following the principles set out in the Pension policy for non-executive director fees.
The appointee will be able to receive either a contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash allowance in lieu serviCe ContraCts of pension benefits in line with the Companys policy as Each of the executive directors has a service contract, the date set out in the remuneration policy table.
of which is shown below, which will be available for inspection Annual bonus at the Annual General meeting or at the Companys registered The appointee will be eligible to participate in office.
These contracts provide for 6 months notice from the the Deferred Share Bonus Plan as set out in the Directors and 12 months notice from the Company.
They do remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to not specify any particular level of compensation in the event the maximum opportunity allowable in the remuneration of termination or change of control.
policy table at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
John Carter 1 January 2014 Tony Buffin 8 April 2013 Long-term incentives Non-executive directors do not have a service contract, but The appointee will be eligible to participate in the each has received a letter of appointment which will be Companys 2013 Long-Term Incentive Plans PSP available for inspection at the AGm or at the Companys and SmS as set out in the remuneration policy table.
These appointments expire on the Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity following dates: allowable under scheme rules at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
Director Expiry of appointment letter Sign-on payments The Groups policy is not to provide sign-on payments.
Ruth Anderson October 2014 However, in exceptional cases payments to an appointee may be made when the Committee deem it to be in the John Coleman February 2014 best interests of the Company and shareholders.
In such Christopher Rogers August 2016 exceptional circumstances the business reason will be explained to shareholders at the time of appointment Andrew Simon February 2015 and put to shareholders at the next AGm.
Where Robert Walker September 2015 required, a payment can be made in cash or shares and may be subject to performance conditions and or a holding period.
Any sign-on payment will be limited to a value equal to twice annual salary.
No compensation is payable on termination of the employment of non-executive directors, which may be with Share buy-outs replacement awards or without notice.
The Groups policy is not to provide buy-out as a matter of course.
However, should the Committee determine poLiCy on payment for direCtors that the individual circumstances of recruitment LeavinG empLoyment justified the provision of a buyout, the value of any Contractual notice periods for directors are normally set at incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a 6 months notice from the director and 12 months notice directors previous employment will be calculated taking from the Company and the Company would normally into account the following: honour contractual commitments in the event of the T he proportion of the performance period completed termination of a director.
Notwithstanding this approach it is on the date of the directors cessation of employment company policy to seek to minimise liability in the event of T he performance conditions attached to the vesting any early termination of an executive directors contract.
of these incentives and the likelihood of them being We classify terminations of employment arising from satisfied death, ill health, disability, injury, retirement with company An y other terms and conditions having a material agreement, redundancy or the transfer from the Group of effect on their value lapsed value the employing entity as good leaver reasons.
In addition the The Committee may then grant up to the equivalent Committee retains discretion under incentive plan rules to value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the determine good leaver status.
In the event such discretion Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was is exercised, for example, recognising significant long term not possible or practical to provide the buyout within contribution to achievement of strategic objectives, a full the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a explanation will be provided to shareholders.
bespoke arrangement would be used.
Leaver reason may impact the treatment of the various Relocation remuneration elements as follows: Where we require a candidate to relocate in order to take up an executive position or take up changed responsibilities we will normally reimburse the reasonable costs of the relocation.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration element Good leaver reason Other leaver reason 76 Ceases on cessation of employment salary may be paid in lieu of Salary Ceases on cessation of employment salary notice unless a pre-existing contractual term applies.
may be paid in lieu of notice unless a pre-existing contractual term applies.
Unpaid bonus from the period prior to cessation will be paid in full.
Bonus including All unpaid bonus payments lapse.
A pro-rata bonus may be paid, subject to normal performance Deferred Share Deferred bonus payments also lapse.
conditions, for the period in which cessation occurs.
Bonus Plan Bonus earned and deferred from 2013 onwards will vest at the normal vesting date on a pro-rata basis.
Bonus earned and deferred prior to 2013 will vest in full at cessation.
Provision or accrual of benefits will cease on cessation of Provision or accrual of benefits will cease Benefits employment.
PSP Normal vesting on a pro-rata basis full vesting in the event of the Participation lapses at cessation of ill health, injury, disability or death of the executive.
Vests on a pro-rata basis in year of leaving based on performance Participation lapses at cessation of SmS in that period.
Leaver vesting provisions are fully defined in the appropriate plan documents performance targets.
Long term variable remuneration includes potential Exceptional circumstances may arise where the Committee awards under the Performance Share Plan and Share matching Scheme considers it appropriate to exercise discretion in relation as well as that part of the bonus which is deferred as shares and subject to to the terms afforded to departing directors and allow for performance testing.
Performance in line with expectations assumes, for annual variable remuneration, performance in line with annual operating plan.
pro-rata vesting to be calculated on a basis other than the For long-term variable remuneration it assumes mid-range performance directors leaving date but normal performance conditions relative to the targets set for each plan.
maximum performance means will always apply other than for the events described in the performance at or in excess of maximum performance targets.
table above and the application of discretion will not be used to bring forward vesting.
reLationship to CoLLeaGUe pay The Committee reserves the right to make additional Pay levels for employees at all levels across the Group are payments where such payments are made in good faith determined in relation to a number of factors including in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of economic conditions, affordability, colleague feedback and damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of market practice.
market practice is determined by reference settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection to relevant market benchmark data, and for all employees with the termination of a directors office or employment.
we benchmark at market median for base salary.
Recent In reporting payments to leaving or past directors we executive salary increases have mirrored those increases will not normally report payments below a fide minimis level applied to our colleagues as a whole.
We do not directly consult with employees when formulating directors remuneration policy, however we are Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy kept informed of general remuneration feedback from Long term variable remuneration across the Group and in particular output from employee Chief Executive Officer Annual variable remuneration opinion surveys and consultation groups.
Remuneration Fixed remuneration, sharehoLder feedbaCk, We consult widely and in detail with shareholders on our % remuneration policy and its execution.
We welcome their, % constructive feedback and use this to effectively shape our % %, approach.
During 2013 we consulted widely and actively on % % % the following issues: Minimum In line with expectations Maximum The appropriate salary on appointment of the new Chief Executive Officer Long term variable remuneration Chief Financial Officer Review of the Chairman of the Boards annual fee Annual variable remuneration Remuneration Fixed remuneration The one-off share matching award made to the newly, appointed Chief Financial Officer in recognition of forfeited cash incentives relating to his previous employment, % % The 2012 remuneration report received a 77.1% vote in, % % support at the AGm.
% % % Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Fixed remuneration includes basic salary, pension provision and other benefits.
Annual variable remuneration includes annual bonus potential under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, and includes that part of the bonus which is deferred as shares and may be subject to malus, but not subject to further TRAVIS PERKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
