112 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements the operating result.
For the purpose of this calculation, an underlying 1.
Accounting policies tax charge is used which excludes the tax effects of separately The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these disclosed items, acquisition related expenses, goodwill and available consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed for sale financial asset impairment charges and separately disclosed in the preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements tax items.
for the year ended 30 September 2012, except for the adoption of the amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements on It should be noted that the definitions of underlying items being used OCI that is applicable for the year ended 30 September 2013.
This in these consolidated financial statements are those used by the Group amended standard has no significant impact on the consolidated and may not be comparable with the term underlying as defined by results or financial position.
other companies both within the same sector or elsewhere.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in the Groups Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to underlying presentational currency of Sterling, rounded to the nearest million.
profit before tax Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September A Statement of compliance 2013 2012 The consolidated financial statements for the year ended Note m m 30 September 2013 have been prepared and approved by the Underlying operating profit 3 589 490 Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Net underlying financial expenses 5 116 100 Standards and IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Underlying profit before tax 473 390 Union Adopted IFRS and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial iii Separately disclosed items statements were approved on 9 December 2013.
Separately disclosed items are those significant items which in managements judgement are highlighted by virtue of their size or B Basis of preparation incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical performance.
Such items are included within the income statement cost basis other than derivative financial instruments, financial caption to which they relate Note 4. instruments held for trading and financial instruments classified as iv Business and financial review available for sale, which are stated at their fair value.
Non-current The Groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect assets held for sale are stated at the lower of their carrying amount its future development, performance and position, are set out in the and fair value less costs to sell.
Business and financial review section.
In addition, Note 26 sets out i Parent Company the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, TUI Travel PLC the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled financial risks, financial instruments and hedging activities as well as in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
The Registered Office of the Company is TUI Travel House, Crawley v Funding and liquidity Business Quarter, Fleming Way, Crawley, West Sussex, RH10 9QL.
The Board remains satisfied with the Groups funding and liquidity The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial position.
At 30 September 2013, the main sources of debt funding statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
included: ii Underlying measures of profits and losses a total of 1,120m bank revolving credit facilities which mature The Group believes that underlying operating profit, underlying profit in June 2015: before tax and underlying earnings per share provide additional 185m of bonding and letter of credit facilities which mature guidance to statutory measures to help understand the underlying in June 2015: performance of the business during the financial year.
The term 350m convertible bond due October 2014: underlying is not defined under IFRS.
It is a measure that is used by 400m convertible bond due April 2017: management to assess the underlying performance of the business 300m bank syndicated facility which matures in April 2016 and internally and is not intended to be a substitute measure for adopted which is only available in the event of a requirement to redeem IFRS GAAP measures.
The Group defines these underlying measures the Groups convertible bonds: and as follows: 275m of drawn finance lease obligations with repayments Underlying operating profit is operating profit from continuing up to March 2023. operations stated before separately disclosed items, acquisition related expenses, impairment of goodwill and available for sale The ratio of earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, financial assets and interest and taxation on the Groups share amortisation and operating lease rentals EBITDAR to fixed charges of the results of joint ventures and associates.
being the aggregate amount of interest and any other finance charges in respect of borrowings and including all payments under operating Underlying profit before tax is profit from continuing operations leases and the ratio of net debt to earnings before interest, taxation, before taxation, acquisition related expenses, impairment of goodwill depreciation and amortisation EBITDA, which the Board believes to and available for sale financial assets, interest and taxation of joint be the most useful measures of cash generation and gearing, as well as ventures and associates and separately disclosed items included being the main basis for the Groups credit facility covenants, are well within the operating result.
within the covenant limits at the date of the balance sheet.
Forecasts Underlying earnings used in the calculation of underlying earnings reviewed by the Board, including forecasts adjusted for significantly per share is profit after tax from continuing operations excluding worse economic conditions, show continued compliance with these acquisition related expenses, impairment of goodwill and available covenants.
For both covenants, earnings are calculated on an for sale financial assets and separately disclosed items included within underlying basis as described in Note 1 B ii.
indd 112 13 12 2013 18:00 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 113 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnCiAl StAtementS SHAREHOLDER INFORmATION On the basis of its forecasts, both base case and adjusted as described in control.
As such, these transactions do not result in goodwill or gains above, and available facilities, the Board has concluded that the going and losses being recognised in the consolidated income statement.
concern basis of preparation continues to be appropriate.
When control is lost, any remaining interest in equity is remeasured to fair value and a gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income C Basis of consolidation statement.
The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Company and iv transactions eliminated on consolidation its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity accounts Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains or income and expenses for the Groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The Parent arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the Company financial statements present information about the Company consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from as a separate entity and not about the Group.
Accounting policies transactions with associates and jointly controlled entities are of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are amended where eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
necessary to be consistent with those adopted by the Group.
Where Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains audited financial statements are not coterminous with those of the but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Group, the financial information is derived from the last audited accounts available and unaudited management accounts for the period v Acquisition in stages up to the Groups balance sheet date.
Where the Group gains control of a subsidiary undertaking through a step acquisition, the existing interest owned is remeasured at fair i Subsidiaries value with the difference between fair value and book value being Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists recognised in the income statement.
The accounting impact of changes when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern in share ownership which do not affect control is accounted for the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits through reserves.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The vi Acquisition related expenses financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated Acquisition related expenses comprise amortisation of business financial information from the date that control commences until the combination intangibles, other acquisition related expenses and date that control ceases.
Directly attributable acquisition costs are expensed in the consolidated income statement ii Joint ventures and associates as incurred.
Joint ventures are jointly controlled entities whose activities the Group has the power to control jointly, established by contractual agreement.
vii Contingent consideration Associates are those entities in which the Group has the ability to Contingent consideration is accounted for at fair value at the exercise significant influence, but not control, over the financial and acquisition date with subsequent changes in the fair value being operating policies.
The consolidated financial statements include the recognised in the income statement.
Contingent consideration Groups share of the total recognised income and expense and changes dependent upon continuing service of an employee is charged to the in equity of joint ventures and associates on an equity accounted basis, income statement over the related service period within acquisition from the date that joint control or significant influence respectively related expenses Note 13 and is included within operating profit.
commences until the date that it ceases.
Associates and joint ventures Contingent consideration is discounted to present value where the are recorded at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the time value of money is material.
Groups share of net assets of the entity including goodwill net of viii non-current assets held for sale accumulated impairment loss.
When the Groups share of losses The Group classifies non-current assets or disposal groups containing exceeds the carrying amount of the joint venture or associate, the a non-current asset as held for sale if their carrying amount will be carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal continuing use.
To be classified as held for sale, the assets must be or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint available for immediate sale in their present condition, subject only venture or associate.
to terms that are usual and customary for the sale of such assets, iii non-controlling interests and their sale must be highly probable.
Sale is considered to be highly In the consolidated balance sheet, the share of net assets attributable probable when management are committed to a plan to sell the assets to non-controlling interests is disclosed as a separate component and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan has of equity after share capital and reserves.
The consolidated income been initiated, at a price that is reasonable in relation to their current statement discloses the amount of the result for the year attributable fair value, and there is an expectation that the sale will be completed to non-controlling interests.
within one year from the date of classification.
Where the Group has a written put option in respect of a nonOn initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal controlling interest and has an unavoidable obligation to purchase groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair the shareholding, the obligation is recorded as a financial liability at fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to profit or loss.
value, rather than being reported as a separate component of equity.
The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement.
Changes to the fair value of the financial liability are recorded at each Any impairment loss on a disposal group is allocated first to goodwill period end in the income statement within financial income or financial and then to remaining applicable assets on a pro rata basis except expenses.
no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets On purchase or sale of a non-controlling interest held in a Group or employee benefit assets, which continue to be measured in subsidiary, the Group recognises increases or decreases in the value accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
of its interest directly in equity providing there is no overall change 19 Financial XAccountingXPolicies v42 copy.
indd 113 13 12 2013 18:00 TT14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 114 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued receivables, loans, trade and other investments including financial 1.
Accounting policies continued deposits within the Groups control, derivative financial instruments Certain assets and liabilities are excluded from the measurement basis and other receivables, but exclude financial deposits outside the of IFRS 5 including deferred tax assets IAS 12 Income Taxes, assets Groups control, prepayments and taxes.
The Group determines the arising from employee benefits IAS 19 Employee Benefits and classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: are recognised initially at fair value, normally being the transaction Recognition and measurement.
price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through ix Business combinations between entities under common profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent control measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as The results of business combinations between entities under common follows: control are incorporated as if the acquired entity had always been Loans and receivables combined.
This is also known as predecessor accounting.
Where Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or this applies, all necessary comparatives for the prior year financial determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such statements are restated to reflect the inclusion of results from the assets are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method commencement of the earliest comparative period, in accordance if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised with IAS 8. in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
This category of financial D Foreign currency assets includes trade and other receivables.
i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign Available for sale financial assets exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets Available for sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet assets that are not classified as loans and receivables or financial assets date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
at fair value through profit or loss.
After initial recognition, available Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised for sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or losses in the income statement except for differences arising on the recognised within other comprehensive income until the investment retranslation of a financial liability designated as a hedge of the net is derecognised or until the investment is determined to be impaired, investment in a foreign operation, or qualifying cash flow hedges, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously reported in other which are recognised directly in equity.
Non-monetary assets and comprehensive income is included in the consolidated income statement.
liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign Note 1 W iii describes the basis on which fair value is determined.
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured at in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated fair value after initial recognition.
The gain or loss is included in the at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair values were consolidated income statement.
Note 1 W iii describes the basis determined.
on which fair value is determined.
ii Foreign operations Cash and cash equivalents The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original The revenues and expenses of overseas operations are translated at maturity of three months or less.
Where the Group operates centrally rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of pooled accounts and has the intention and ability to pool account the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation balances, the net cash or overdraft position is disclosed.
Where the have been recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve, a intention or ability to pool balances together is absent, the cash and designated foreign exchange reserve, since 1 January 2007. overdraft are disclosed on a gross basis in the consolidated balance sheet and the overdraft is excluded from cash and cash equivalents Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from a monetary item for the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flows.
receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement of which is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, are Where cash and cash equivalent balances are not available for use considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation by the Group, for example to meet regulatory requirements, this fact and are recognised directly in equity in the translation reserve.
is disclosed and the balances are excluded from available net debt.
iii net investment in foreign operations Derecognition Foreign currency differences arising on the retranslation of a The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual financial liability designated as a hedge of a net investment in a rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or it transfers the foreign operation are recognised in the consolidated statement of rights to receive the contractual cash flows on the financial asset comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective and in a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards are presented within equity in the translation reserve.
To the extent of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.
Any interest that the hedge is ineffective, such differences are recognised in profit in transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the or loss.
When the hedged part of a net investment is disposed, the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability.
relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred to profit ii Financial liabilities or loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
Financial liabilities are either classified as financial liabilities measured e Financial instruments at amortised cost, or financial liabilities at fair value through profit i Financial assets or loss.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables excluding Financial assets are either classified as loans and receivables, available tax and social security and deferred income, accruals, finance debt for sale financial assets, or financial assets at fair value through profit and derivative financial instruments.
The Group determines the or loss.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
indd 114 13 12 2013 18:00 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 115 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnCiAl StAtementS SHAREHOLDER INFORmATION liabilities are recognised initially at fair value, normally being the iv Share capital transaction price plus, in the case of financial liabilities not at fair Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share awards are The subsequent measurement of financial liabilities depends on recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
their classification, as follows: F Hedge accounting Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost The Group designates certain derivatives as cash flow hedges of highly All financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value.
bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the proceeds On initial designation of the hedge, the Group formally documents the received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial relationship between the hedging instrument s and hedged item s, recognition, financial liabilities other than those at fair value through including the risk management objectives and strategy in undertaking profit or loss are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the the hedge transaction, together with the methods that will be used effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship.
The Group account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation as well as on an ongoing basis, as to whether the hedging instruments of liabilities are recognised respectively in interest, other revenues and are expected to be highly effective in hedging cash flows during the finance costs.
This category of financial liabilities includes trade and period for which the hedge is designated and whether the actual other payables.
results of each hedge are within a range of 80-125%.
The transaction Convertible bonds being hedged should be highly probable to occur and should present Convertible bonds are separated into three components: liability, an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect issuer call option and equity at inception.
Each component is reported net income.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the The initial fair value of the liability component of the convertible variability in cash flows arising from a recognised asset or liability, or bond is determined using the market interest rate for an equivalent a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any fair non-convertible bond and is subsequently recorded at an amortised value gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised cost basis using the effective interest method until extinguished on directly in the hedging reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge conversion or maturity of the bonds.
The issuer call option is fair is recognised immediately within the consolidated income statement.
valued using a valuation model and is measured at each balance sheet When the forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition date with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability, the associated The remainder of the proceeds are recognised in shareholders equity cumulative gain or loss is removed from the hedging reserve and is in a separate convertible bond reserve.
included in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial Issue costs are apportioned between the liability and equity asset or liability.
If a hedge of a forecast transaction subsequently components of a convertible bond based on the allocation of proceeds results in the recognition of a financial asset or a financial liability, to the liability and equity components when the instruments are first the associated gains and losses that were recognised directly in equity recognised.
are reclassified into the consolidated income statement in the same period or periods during which the asset acquired or liability assumed Derivatives affects profit or loss.
Derivatives are accounted for in accordance with the policy in Note 1 E iii.
For cash flow hedges, other than those covered by the preceding two paragraphs, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from Derecognition equity and recognised in the consolidated income statement in the The Group derecognises a financial liability when the contractual same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction obligations to pay the contractual cash flows on the financial liability affects the consolidated income statement.
are discharged, cancelled or expire.
Prospective hedge testing is performed at the inception of the hedge iii Derivative financial instruments relationship and subsequently at each balance sheet date, through The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure comparison of the critical terms of the hedged forecast transaction to foreign exchange and fuel price risks arising from operational, and the hedging instrument using regression analysis.
Retrospective financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury hedge testing is performed at each reporting date principally using policy, the Group does not hold or issue derivative financial a dollar offset analysis, comparing the cumulative changes in the fair instruments for trading purposes.
However, derivatives that do not values of the forecast hedged transaction and the hedging qualify for hedge accounting are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value When a hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity remeasured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain revokes designation of the hedge relationship, hedge accounting is or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging discontinued prospectively.
If the hedged forecast transaction is still instrument and if so the nature of the item being hedged.
The gain expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in or loss on remeasurement to fair value on derivatives not designated equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the as a hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the income transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to statement against the opposite line of income or expense.
The take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity accounting policy for derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately.
is included in Note 1 F. 19 Financial XAccountingXPolicies v42 copy.
indd 115 13 12 2013 18:00 TT14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 116 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued iii marketing and other direct sales costs 1.
Accounting policies continued marketing, advertising and other promotional costs, including those G Revenue related to the production of brochures, are expensed when the benefit Revenue represents the aggregate amount earned from inclusive tours, of the goods or services is made available to the Group.
In particular, scheduled and charter flying, provision of incoming agency destination brochure and advertising costs are expensed to the consolidated services, travel agency and intermediary commission received and income statement when the Groups suppliers have delivered the other services supplied to customers in the ordinary course of relevant material.
Revenue excludes intra-group transactions and is stated after the deduction of trade discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue I Employee benefits is reported gross of fixed charges which are a liability of the tour i Defined contribution plans operator or airline.
These include Air Passenger Duty and other Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans per passenger charges and levies, including the ATOL Protection are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement Contribution in the UK.
i Revenue recognition ii Defined benefit plans Revenue is recognised in the consolidated income statement when The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of to the buyer.
Travel agency and intermediary commissions and other future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service revenues received from the sale of third party product are recognised in current and prior periods.
That benefit is discounted to determine when they are earned, typically on receipt of final payment.
Revenue its present value and any unrecognised past service costs and the fair in respect of in-house product is recognised on the date of departure.
value of any plan assets is deducted in calculating the overall liability.
Revenue from individual travel modules directly booked by the The liability discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on customer with airlines, hotels and incoming agencies is recognised AA credit-rated bonds denominated in the currency of, and having when the customer departs or uses the respective service.
Revenue the same maturity dates approximating to, the terms of the Groups from the sale of travel insurance is recognised at the point of sale.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
No revenue is recognised if there are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due or associated costs.
Where the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the asset recognised is limited to the present value of any future refunds from ii Client monies received in advance deferred income the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan which are Client monies received at the balance sheet date relating to holidays under the control of the Group.
commencing and flights departing after the year end are deferred and included within trade and other payables.
When the benefits of a plan are amended, the portion of the increase decrease in benefit relating to past services by employees iii measurement of revenue is recognised as an expense income in the consolidated income Where the Group acts as principal, revenue is stated at the contractual statement on a straight line basis over the average period until value of goods and services provided.
To the extent that the benefits vest Where the Group acts as an agent between the service provider immediately, the expense income is recognised immediately in the and the end customer, revenue is presented on a net basis as the consolidated income statement.
difference between the sales price to the customer and the cost All actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period they occur of the services purchased and not the total transaction sales value.
through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Either Businesses are identified as intermediaries dependent on a number of monthly or annual contributions are made to funded schemes.
The criteria, principally including the control exercised over the provision current service cost is included in the consolidated income statement of service, inventory risk and customer credit risk.
Any change in the present value of pension iv Aircraft lease income scheme liabilities relating to employee service in prior periods but Operating lease rental income is recognised in operating income arising in the current period as a result of benefit amendments is as earned, on a straight line basis over the lease term.
charged credited to operating expenses over the period during which such amendments vest.
H Expenses The expected return on the schemes assets and the increase during i Operating lease payments the period in the present value of the schemes liabilities arising from Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the the passage of time are included in financial income and financial consolidated income statement on a straight line basis over the term of expenses, respectively.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the consolidated income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over iii Share-based payment transactions the term of the lease.
The Groups share award programmes allow certain Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
These shares are awarded by the ii Finance lease payments Company.
For equity-settled transactions, the fair value of services minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge is measured by the fair value of the shares at the time awarded and and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a in equity.
The fair value is spread over the period during which the constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the employee becomes entitled to the awards.
indd 116 13 12 2013 18:00 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 117 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnCiAl StAtementS SHAREHOLDER INFORmATION For cash-settled transactions, the resulting liability for the Group is of deferred tax asset recognised is based on the expected manner charged to expenses at its fair value as at the date of the performance of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and of the service by the beneficiary.
Until payment of this liability, the liabilities, using the tax rate at which the asset or liability is expected to fair value of the liability is remeasured at every reporting date and reverse in future periods, based on tax laws enacted or substantively all changes are included in the consolidated income statement.
enacted at the balance sheet date.
For both types of share-based payment transactions, the fair value A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable of the awards is measured using option valuation models, taking into that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can account the terms and conditions upon which the awards were made, be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no including market performance conditions and the impact of non-vesting longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect l Dividends the actual number of share awards that vest except where forfeiture Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as is due only to market based performance conditions not meeting the a liability in the Groups financial statements in the period in which the threshold for vesting.
dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payment and iv Own shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Interim dividends are Transactions of the Group-sponsored Employee Benefit Trust the recognised when paid.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these Trust are included in the Groups consolidated financial statements.
criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
In particular, the Trusts purchase of shares in the Company is debited directly in equity to retained earnings accumulated losses.
m earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data v Short term benefits for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit Short term employee benefits are measured on an undiscounted basis or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the and are expensed as the related service is provided.
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the weighted average J Financial income and expenses number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive Financial income comprises interest income on funds invested potential ordinary shares.
EPS measures for continuing operations including available for sale financial assets, dividend income, gains have been presented in accordance with IAS 33.
The Group also on the disposal of available for sale financial assets and changes in the presents a basic and diluted underlying EPS measure based on fair value of financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or underlying earnings as defined in Note 1 B ii above.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in profit or loss, using of the EPS calculation are presented in Note 33. the effective interest method.
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date the Groups right to receive payment is established n investments which, in the case of quoted securities, is the ex-dividend date.
Foreign Unless designated at fair value through profit and loss, trade currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.
investments are classified as available for sale assets and are Financial expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, included under non-current assets.
They are recorded at fair value unwinding of the discount on provisions and changes in the fair value with movements in value taken to other comprehensive income.
of financial assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
All Any impairment to value is recorded in the income statement.
borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss using the effective Short term investments in debt and equity securities which are held interest method.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on for trading are classified as current assets and are stated at fair value, a net basis.
with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
K Taxation O Intangible assets Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is i Goodwill recognised in the consolidated income statement except to the extent All business combinations are accounted for by applying the purchase that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or method.
directly in equity, in which case the related tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income, or directly in equity, as appropriate.
Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Goodwill represents the difference i Current tax between the fair value of consideration paid or payable and the net Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities the period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the acquired.
Identifiable intangibles, such as brands and customer balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect relationships, are those which can be sold separately or which arise of previous periods.
from contractual or legal rights regardless of whether those rights ii Deferred tax are separable, and the fair value can be reliably measured.
Goodwill Deferred tax is provided or recognised using the balance sheet liability is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying Goodwill is allocated to those cash generating units CGUs expected amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and to benefit from the business combination and is not amortised but the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary tested annually for impairment.
Impairment testing is based on assets differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill grouped at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or management purposes.
In respect of joint ventures and associates, the liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that investment in the joint venture or associate.
they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount 19 Financial XAccountingXPolicies v42 copy.
indd 117 13 12 2013 18:00 TT14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 118 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Software in development is not amortised.
Accounting policies continued development and bringing the software into use, the costs are Fair value adjustments are made in respect of acquisitions.
If, at re-categorised into computer software and amortisation commences.
the balance sheet date, the amounts of fair values of the acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities can only be established provisionally, P Property, plant and equipment then these values are used.
Any adjustments to these values are taken i Owned assets as adjustments to goodwill and must be recorded within 12 months Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less of the acquisition.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost includes recognised in the income statement upon acquisition.
the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
ii Computer software, software in development and other intangible assets Where significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment Computer software consists of all software that is not an integral have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items part of the related computer hardware and is stated at cost less of property, plant and equipment.
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
ii leased assets Costs associated with maintaining computer software programmes Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs that rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Leased assets are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and acquired by way of a finance lease are stated at an amount equal to unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum as intangible assets when the following criteria are met: lease payments at the inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Lease payments are accounted it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that for as set out in Note 1 H ii above.
it will be available for use: management intends to complete the software product and use iii Depreciation or sell it: Depreciation is charged to the consolidated income statement on a there is an ability to use or sell the software product: straight line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
Freehold land is it can be demonstrated how the software product will generate not depreciated.
The useful economic lives are as follows: probable future economic benefits: adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the Freehold properties Up to 50 years development and to use or sell the software product are available: Short leasehold improvements Lease period or useful and economic life if shorter Owned aircraft Up to 18 years the expenditure attributable to the software product during its Finance leased aircraft and equipment Lease period or useful development can be reliably measured.
economic life if shorter Directly attributable costs that are capitalised as part of the software Aircraft spares 12 years product include the software development employee costs and an Cruise ships 40 years appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Yachts 5-15 years motor boats 15-24 years Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are Computer equipment including 3-5 years recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs previously retail computer equipment recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in a Retail fixtures and fittings Up to 10 years subsequent period.
Other assets Up to 7 years Separately acquired trademarks and licences are shown at historical cost.
Licences and order books assets acquired in a business The cost of major overhauls of owned airframes and engines is combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date, as capitalised and depreciated over the period until the next scheduled detailed in Note 1 W ii.
Licences have a finite useful life and are major overhaul.
carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
The depreciation methods, useful economic lives and residual iii Brands and customer relationships values are reassessed annually.
Revisions to useful economic lives Brands and contractual customer relationships acquired in a business and residual values are accounted for prospectively from the date combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Both intangibles have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less Freehold land, assets under construction and advance payments accumulated amortisation.
including capitalised borrowing costs for future aircraft are not iv Amortisation depreciated.
Upon delivery of the aircraft, advance payments for Amortisation is charged to the consolidated income statement on a aircraft that are subsequently owned are re-categorised to aircraft straight line basis over the estimated useful economic life of each type assets and depreciation is commenced.
Advance payments for of intangible asset as follows: aircraft that are sold and leased back on delivery under an operating lease are accounted for as a disposal.
Where the aircraft is leased Computer software 3-10 years back on a finance lease, as well as the disposal of the advance Brands 15-20 years payment, an addition to aircraft is recorded at an amount equal Order book at date of acquisition Over the period until travel occurs to the lower of fair value of the aircraft and the present value Customer relationships Over the period during which value will of the minimum lease payments at the inception of the lease.
be obtained by the Group up to 15 years Licences Over the term of licence 19 Financial XAccountingXPolicies v42 copy.
indd 118 13 12 2013 18:00 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 119 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnCiAl StAtementS SHAREHOLDER INFORmATION iv Borrowing costs If such an indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is In respect of borrowing costs relating to qualifying assets, the Group estimated.
For goodwill, the recoverable amount is estimated at each capitalises borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, balance sheet date.
construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of of that asset.
an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable The Group has capitalised borrowing costs with respect to pre-delivery amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and fair payments relating to aircraft.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax v Sale and leaseback transactions discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time When a sale and leaseback results in a finance leaseback, any gain value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
A CGU is the on the sale is deferred and recognised as income over the lease term.
smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that Any loss on the sale is immediately recognised in the profit and loss are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or account if there is evidence that the assets carrying value exceeds groups of assets.
The largest unit to which goodwill is allocated is the fair value.
an operating segment level as defined in IFRS 8 before applying If the leaseback is classified as an operating lease, then any gain aggregation criteria.
is recognised immediately if the sale and leaseback terms are Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment losses demonstrably at fair value.
Otherwise, the sale and leaseback recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying is accounted for as follows: amount of goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to reduce the If the sale price is below fair value, then the gain or loss is recognised carrying amount of other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
immediately, other than to the extent that a loss is compensated for An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect by future rentals at a below-market price, then the loss is deferred of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are and amortised over the period that the asset is expected to be used.
assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has If the sale price is above fair value, then any gain is deferred decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there and amortised over the useful life of the asset.
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable If the fair value of the asset is less than the carrying amount amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the of the asset at the date of the transaction, then that difference assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that is recognised immediately as a loss on the sale.
would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Q impairments i Financial assets R inventories A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine Inventories are measured at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
A financial Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less the estimated asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that costs incurred until the sale and the estimated variable costs required one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future to sell.
All inventories are written down individually where the net cash flows of that asset.
realisable value of inventories is lower than their carrying amounts.
The measurement method applied to similar inventory items is the An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset is calculated as the weighted average cost formula.
difference between its carrying amount and its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss in respect of an available for sale financial asset S Provisions is calculated by reference to its fair value.
The recoverable amount A provision is recognised in the consolidated balance sheet when the of the Groups receivables which are carried at amortised cost is Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required discounted at the original effective interest rate i. e. the effective to settle the obligation and the outflow of economic benefits can be interest rate computed at initial recognition of these financial assets.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined Receivables with a short duration are not discounted.
by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and Individually significant financial assets are tested for impairment the risks specific to the liability.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
i maintenance provision for leased aircraft To reflect the legal obligations placed upon the Group under the terms All impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Any cumulative of certain operating leases, provision is made for the maintenance, loss in respect of an available for sale financial asset previously overhaul and repair costs of operating leased airframes, engines and recognised in equity is transferred to profit or loss.
An impairment certain other components.
The provision is based on the present loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event value of the anticipated external costs of the next maintenance occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets event calculated by reference to costs experienced and published measured at amortised cost and available for sale financial assets that manufacturers data.
The charge to the consolidated income statement are debt securities, the reversal is recognised in profit or loss.
For is calculated by reference to the number of hours and cycles flown and available for sale financial assets that are equity securities, the reversal by reference to the length of the full overhaul cycle.
Costs incurred are is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Neither the timing nor the value of the ii Non-financial assets expenditure can be precisely determined but they can be averaged The carrying amount of the Groups non-financial assets, other than over time and over a fleet.
The unwinding of discounted values is inventory and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet charged to the consolidated income statement as a financial expense.
date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
indd 119 13 12 2013 18:00 TT14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 120 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued made in determining fair values is disclosed in the note specific to that 1.
Accounting policies continued asset or liability.
ii Restructuring provision A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Group i Property, plant and equipment has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the The fair value of property, plant and equipment recognised as a result restructuring either has commenced or has been announced of a business combination is based on market values.
Future operating costs are not provided for.
of property is the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a iii Onerous contracts willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and benefits to be derived by the Group from the contract are lower than without compulsion.
The market value of items of plant, equipment, the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract.
fixtures and fittings is based on the quoted market prices for similar The provision is measured at the present value of the lower of the items.
expected cost of terminating the contract and the expected net cost of continuing with the contract.
Before a provision is established, the ii Intangible assets Group recognises any impairment loss on the assets associated with The fair value of intangible assets recognised as a result of a business that contract.
combination, including brands, customer relationships and the customer order book at the date of acquisition, is valued by reference t Related parties to external market values or income-based methods.
Income-based For the purpose of these consolidated financial statements, parties methods estimate the future economic benefits to be derived from are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, ownership of the asset by identifying, quantifying and separating cash directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant flows attributable to the asset and capitalising their present value.
influence over the party making financial and operating decisions, or iii Investments in equity and debt securities vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common The fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss and control or significant influence.
Related parties may be individuals or available for sale financial assets is determined by reference to their entities.
quoted closing bid price at the reporting date, where available.
If there U Segment reporting is no market price available the fair value is calculated based on other An operating segment is a component of an entity that: valuation techniques, including assessments of future cash flows, estimated selling price and other available information.
The fair value engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues of held to maturity investments is determined on initial recognition and incur expenses including revenues and expenses relating and thereafter for disclosure purposes only.
to transactions with other components of the same entity : iv Trade and other receivables whose operating results and financial position are regularly Trade receivables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to make decisions recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its as reduced by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
performance: and An allowance for irrecoverable amounts is established when there for which discrete financial information is available.
is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all As described in Note 3, all underlying operating items are allocated amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The to the segments underlying profit except central costs and net amount of allowance is the difference between the assets carrying financial expenses.
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
V Use of estimates and judgements v Trade payables The preparation of financial statements requires management Trade payables are recognised at their fair value and subsequently to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the recorded at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, vi Derivatives liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these The fair value of foreign currency contracts, fuel forward contracts and estimates.
option contracts is their forward market price at the balance sheet date, Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing based on external valuations or internal valuations using market data.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period vii Non-derivative financial liabilities in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated Details of critical judgements, significant estimates and assumptions based on the present value of future principal and interest cash flows, are disclosed in the relevant notes to the consolidated financial discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date.
The key accounting estimates and judgements are finance leases, the market rate of interest is determined by reference described in Note 2. to similar lease agreements.
W Determination of fair values viii Share-based payments A number of the Groups accounting policies and disclosures require The fair value of the shares awarded is measured using option the determination of fair value, for both financial and non-financial valuation models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon assets and liabilities.
Fair values have been determined for which the awards were made.
The valuation basis is identical whether measurement and or disclosure purposes based on the following the awards will be settled in cash or shares.
When applicable, further information about the assumptions 19 Financial XAccountingXPolicies v42 copy.
indd 120 13 12 2013 18:00 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 121 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnCiAl StAtementS SHAREHOLDER INFORmATION X New Standards and interpretations not yet adopted Effective date: accounting Standard periods commencing on or after The following standards are applicable to the Group and will be applied Endorsed by the EU to the accounting period beginning on 1 October 2013: IAS 27 revised Separate financial statements 1 January 2014 IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee benefits.
The amendment to IAS 19 IAS 28 revised Investments in associates and Employee benefits makes significant changes to the recognition and joint ventures 1 January 2014 measurement of defined benefit pension expense and termination IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 1 January 2014 benefits and enhances the disclosures for all employee benefits.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2014 The most significant impact for the Group is that interest expense IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities 1 January 2014 will be calculated on the net defined benefit liability by applying Not yet endorsed by the EU the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.
This replaces Amendment to IAS 36 on recoverable amount disclosures for impairment of assets 1 January 2014 the interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and the expected Amendment to IAS 39 on novation of return on plan assets and will increase the Groups employee derivatives and continuation of hedge benefit expense.
Had the standard been applied in the current accounting 1 January 2014 financial year, the Groups profit before tax would have been 12m Amendment to IFRS 10, 11 and 12 on transition lower, equating to a decrease in the statutory and underlying guidance 1 January 2014 earnings per share of 1.1p.
Amendments to IAS 32 on Financial instruments asset and liability offsetting 1 January 2014 IFRS 13 Fair value measurement.
This standard aims to improve IFRIC 21 Levies 1 January 2014 consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition IFRS 9 Financial instruments To be announced of fair value and a single source of fair value measurement and disclosure requirements for use across IFRSs.
The requirements IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements replaces all of the guidance do not extend the use of fair value accounting but provide guidance on control and consolidation currently within IAS 27 and SIC 12 and on how it should be applied where its use is already required or builds on existing principles by identifying the concept of control as the permitted by other standards.
The impact on the Group is expected determining factor in whether an entity should be included within the to be mainly in relation to the fair values of assets and liabilities consolidated financial statements.
This new standard is not expected on acquisition of businesses and in fair valuing derivative financial to have a material impact on the Groups results but may affect the instruments, although these are not expected to materially alter Groups accounting treatment for its non-consolidated entities.
the Groups results and balances.
IFRS 11 Joint arrangements establishes principles for financial The IASBs Annual improvements project 2011 contains seven reporting by parties to a joint arrangement.
The IFRS supersedes amendments affecting five standards, which are all effective from IAS 31 and SIC-13 and is concerned principally with both the structure 1 January 2013.
Only the amendment to IAS 16 Property, plant of the arrangement and that an entity had a choice of accounting and equipment is expected to have an impact on the Groups year treatment for interests in jointly controlled entities.
The adoption end balances and disclosures, although the impact on the Groups of this new standard is not expected to have an impact on the consolidated balance sheet is not expected to be material.
previous wording of IAS 16 indicated that servicing equipment should be classified as inventory, even if it was used for more than IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities sets out the required one period.
The amendment clarifies that spare parts and servicing disclosures for entities reporting under the two new standards, equipment are classified as property, plant and equipment rather IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements, and IFRS 11 Joint than inventory when they meet the definition of property, plant arrangements and replaces the disclosure requirements currently and equipment.
found in IAS 28 Investments in associates.
The IFRS requires an entity to disclose information that enables users of financial statements to Amendments to IFRS 1 First time adoption on government grants evaluate both the nature of, and risks associated with, its interests and Exemption for severe hyperinflation and fixed dates for EU in other entities and the effects of those interests on its financial entities.
These amendments are not expected to have an impact position, financial performance and cash flows.
on the Groups results or balances.
The amendment to IFRSs 10, 11 and 12 on transition guidance provides Amendments to IFRS 7 on Financial instruments asset and liability additional transitional relief in IFRSs 10, 11 and 12 limiting the offsetting.
The amendments to IFRS 7 on offsetting financial requirement to provide adjusted comparative information to only the instruments and liabilities clarify some of the requirements for preceding comparative period.
The amendment also requires certain offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the balance comparative disclosures under IFRS 12 upon transition.
The amendments clarify that the right of set-off must be available today and not contingent on a future event.
It also must IAS 27 revised Separate financial statements includes the provisions be legally enforceable for all counterparties in the normal course of on separate financial statements that are left after the control business, as well as in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy.
provisions of IAS 27 have been included in the new IFRS 10.
This amendment is not expected to have an impact on the Groups IAS 28 revised Investments in associates and joint ventures results, balances or disclosures.
includes the requirements for joint ventures, as well as associates, The following standards, revisions and amendments to current to be equity accounted following the issue of IFRS 11. standards have been issued and, unless stated, are considered applicable to the Group in future years.
They have not been voluntarily adopted early by the Group.
indd 121 13 12 2013 18:00 TT14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 122 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued most, these being in relation to the discount rate and earnings growth 1.
Accounting policies continued both within the long term plans and thereafter.
Further details, The revisions to IAS 27 and IAS 28 are not expected to have a including sensitivity analysis, are given in Note 10 and the accounting significant impact on the Groups results.
policy is set out in Note 1 Q ii.
The amendment to IAS 36 in respect of recoverable amount Defined benefit pension plans disclosures for impairment of non financial assets is only expected A qualified independent actuary undertakes the estimation of the to impact disclosures where a cash generating unit is assessed on present value of the Groups obligations under defined benefit pension the basis of fair value less costs to sell, as opposed to value in use.
schemes using assumptions taken from a range of possible actuarial IFRS 9 Financial instruments was reissued in 2010 and includes assumptions.
These assumptions may not be borne out in practice, guidance on the classification and measurement of financial assets especially due to the long timescales involved.
In particular, the and financial liabilities and the fide-recognition of financial instruments.
valuation of scheme assets is based on the fair value at the balance The standard is being added to as the IASB endorses different sheet date.
As these assets are not intended to be sold in the short phases of the project to replace IAS 39 and its effective date is yet term, their value may change significantly prior to realisation.
reviewing the work of the qualified independent actuary, management was required to exercise judgement to satisfy itself that appropriate The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of these and weight had been afforded to macroeconomic factors.
Details of the other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed actual assumptions used, including sensitivity analysis, are set out in by the European Union and require adoption by the Group in future Note 6 C. accounting periods.
Key accounting estimates and judgements Judgement is required in the assessment of prospective effectiveness and specifically in the assessment of the probability of forecast The preparation of consolidated financial statements under adopted transactions, both at hedge inception and during the period over which IFRS requires the Directors to make estimates and judgements that hedge accounting is adopted.
The fair value of derivative financial affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure instruments can also involve judgement.
Where appropriate, external of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amount of revenue valuations from financial institutions are undertaken to support the and expenses during the year.
The Directors evaluate the estimates carrying value of such items.
Details of sensitivity analysis are set out and judgements on an ongoing basis.
Such estimates and judgements in Note 26 K. are based upon historical experience and other factors they believe to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from B Judgements estimates.
The Directors have discussed with the Audit Committee Entry into service of new aircraft and related accounting the selection, development and disclosure of the Groups critical This financial year saw the Group incur costs to enable a new type of accounting policies and estimates and the applications of these policies aircraft, the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, to be brought into service.
Key estimates and judgements have been made in of the funding of these costs, the Group is entitled to certain credits respect of the following areas: from Boeing which in some cases are taken directly to the income statement and in others are used to offset against the cost of each A estimates aircraft.
These are therefore reported as sale and leaseback profits in Intangible assets Goodwill carrying value the income statement when the aircraft is delivered and the sale and A full impairment review has been performed of all goodwill, together leaseback transaction is executed.
Significant judgement is involved in with intangible and tangible balances held across the Group on a CGU the accounting treatment of these credits both in terms of recognition basis.
In the current year, the impairment review has been performed and classification in the income statement, since entry into service on a value in use basis for all CGUs, which requires estimation of costs will continue to be incurred in the next financial year as further future net operating cash flows, the time period over which they will Boeing 787 deliveries occur and more aircraft are brought into service.
occur and appropriate discount and growth rates.
Separately disclosed items Significant estimates for revenues and costs are required in building Separately disclosed items are those significant items which in financial budgets extending over a five year period, which are based managements judgement are highlighted by virtue of their size upon internal and macroeconomic factors such as the Groups strategy or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups financial for each CGU, the brand strength within that CGU, consumer demand, performance.
Such items are included within the income statement supplier cost increases, oil prices and the penetration of differentiated caption to which they relate Note 4. holidays.
All inputs into the Groups long term plans are challenged and considered by the Group management Board until achievable and Revenue recognition realistic budgets are approved.
For example, in the Specialist & Activity In recognising revenue, judgement is required in the consideration Sector, following the removal of the sector management team at the of whether each individual business acts as a principal or agent and start of the financial year, the outcome of the assessment of those whether revenues should be recognised on a gross or net basis, in businesses future profitability was considered to be less than that accordance with IAS 18.
Judgement is required when considering used in last years impairment review, thereby causing impairments the balance of risk and rewards of the sale, including delivery and within that Sector to total 109m.
In the French tour operating non-performance risk, credit risk, inventory risk and the ability to business, there is significant and inherent uncertainty over the speed establish prices.
of recovery and therefore the timing of return to profitability due Business combinations to the ongoing political unrest and violence in the North African In the case of business combinations, judgement and estimation is destinations.
Delaying the return to profitability and reducing the required in the identification and valuation of separable assets and absolute levels of profits within a five year timescale relative to last liabilities on acquisitions.
In particular, judgement and estimation is year has led to a 59m impairment charge in the year.
required in the identification and valuation of separable intangible For the purpose of the Groups impairment testing, we have then assets including brands and customer databases and determining considered the key inputs that can impact discounted cash flows the appropriate useful economic lives for these assets.
Judgement and 19 Financial XAccountingXPolicies v42 copy.
indd 122 13 12 2013 18:00 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 123 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FinAnCiAl StAtementS SHAREHOLDER INFORmATION estimation is also required in determining the fair value of deferred Belgium & morocco, the Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland, Poland, tax assets and retirement benefits acquired, as well as the contingent Southern Europe and the Hotels division comprising hotel consideration payable in respect of each acquisition.
Details of management companies and joint ventures in hotel assets.
acquisitions are set out in Note 13.
Each source market represents an individual operating segment.
Aggregation criteria is then used to combine certain of these operating Liabilities segments into reported segments.
In accounting for provisions, judgement is required in determining occurrence probability, maturity and level of risk.
Judgement and The Specialist & Activity Sector operates under six divisions: estimation is required in determining aircraft maintenance, Adventure, Education, marine, North American Specialist, Sport and restructuring, legal including denied boarding compensation and Specialist Holidays Group.
The Sector has over 100 international onerous lease provisions.
It is also required to determine the provision specialist and activity brands delivering a range of unique customer methodology and for certain provisions, considering external experiences.
The Specialist & Activity Sector is considered to be one information on which to base the amount of provision.
Due to the operating segment, in line with internal management reporting.
volume of transactions and the materiality of period end accruals, The Accommodation & Destinations A&D Sector provides a range judgement is also required in respect of the recognition and of services in destinations to tour operators, travel agents, corporate derecognition of airline and accommodation operating accruals.
Details clients and direct to the consumer worldwide.
A&D consists of of provisions made and the basis on which the provisions have been Online Accommodation comprising Accommodation Wholesaler calculated are disclosed in Note 22 and the accounting policy is set and Accommodation OTA and Inbound Services.
The A&D Sector out in Note 1 S. in total is considered as one operating segment, in line with internal Taxation management reporting.
The Group has, from time to time, contingent tax liabilities arising The Emerging markets Sector is a growing portfolio of travel from trading and corporate transactions in the UK and overseas businesses in the source markets of Russia, the Ukraine, India jurisdictions.
After taking appropriate external advice, the Group and China and is considered to be one operating segment.
makes provision for these liabilities based on the probable level of economic loss that may be incurred and which is reliably measurable.
Reportable and reported segments Items relating to open areas often require significant judgement, The results of the UK & Ireland, Germany, Nordics and the French including the probability, timing and size of any amounts that may tour operator are reported separately due to the size and importance become payable.
Judgements in respect of significant tax liabilities are of these source markets and which meet the threshold for being given in Note 8.
Judgement is also required in the assessment of the individual reportable segments.
The results for the French scheduled future recoverability of tax losses and recognition of deferred tax airline, Corsair, are shown separately to that of the French tour assets.
Details of unrecognised tax losses are given in Note 14. operator as it has a different business model to the rest of the Groups integrated tour operators.
All of the other mainstream Sectors, except Recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments for the Hotels division, meet the aggregation criteria set out in IFRS 8 Judgements have been made in respect of the volumes of future and are reported as one segment, the Rest of mainstream.
All of the trading with hoteliers and the credit-worthiness of those hoteliers in aggregated businesses are considered to be similar in nature and order to assess the recoverable amounts of deposits and prepayments economically similar over the long term.
The Hotels division is reported made to those hoteliers.
Judgement can often be based upon an separately as this does not meet the aggregation criteria of IFRS 8. understanding of the financial strength of those hoteliers and the quality of, and demand for, each hotel over the coming seasons.
Emerging markets, the Specialist & Activity and A&D Sectors are all reported as separate Sector totals as this is consistent with internal Fair value measurements management reports.
management has to make judgements regarding the valuation of some financial instruments that use inputs that are not observable in active All reportable segments derive their revenues from the sale of leisure markets.
These are disclosed in Note 26 H. travel and ancillary services.
Segmental information for both the current and prior year has been presented using this structure, with 3.
Segmental information the prior years information being restated.
Corporate costs are in respect of central costs including finance, human resources, legal, IFRS 8 requires segmental information to be presented on the same facility costs and some information technology costs that do not basis as that used for internal management reporting.
Segmental relate to each business segment and hence are not allocated.
information is reported by the Groups business sectors to the Group management Board GmB.
The GmB consists of tour operating and Information regarding the results of each reportable segment is functional experts drawn from across the Group who execute TUI provided below.
Segmental performance is evaluated based on Travels day-to-day operations, allocate resources to and assess the underlying operating profit and is measured consistently with performance of the operating segments.
Consequently, the GmB is underlying operating profit or loss in the consolidated financial considered to be the chief operating decision maker for the purposes statements and as defined in Note 1 B ii.
Intersegmental sales and of IFRS 8. transfers reflect arms length prices as if sold or transferred to third parties.
Financial income and expenses are not allocated to the Group structure reportable segments as this activity is managed by the Groups The Group presents segmental information in respect of its Sectors.
treasury function which manages the overall net cash debt position As disclosed in the Groups 2012 Annual Report & Accounts, with of the Group.
No one customer exceeds 10% of entity revenues in effect from 1 October 2012, the businesses within our mainstream any segment.
Goodwill impairment losses arising are detailed in Sector are reported via each key source market instead of regionally.
Note 10 and are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Emerging markets remains outside of the mainstream Sector for internal management reporting purposes and is reported separately.
Segment assets comprise capital expenditure as this is the only measure of assets reported monthly to the GmB and represent the The mainstream Sector consists of the following source markets: UK amounts purchased in the year.
& Ireland, Germany, France, Corsair, the Nordic countries, Canada, 19 Financial XAccountingXPolicies v42 copy.
indd 123 13 12 2013 18:00 TT14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 124 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Segmental information continued Segmental analysis Year ended 30 September 2013 Underlying Intersegmental Total external operating Total revenue revenue revenue profit loss Sector m m m m UK & Ireland 4,007 128 3,879 251 Germany 4,187 26 4,161 113 Nordics 1,223 1,223 79 French tour operator 706 706 59 French airline 408 37 371 1 Hotels 214 160 54 6 Rest of Mainstream 2,564 90 2,474 125 Total Mainstream 13,309 441 12,868 514 Specialist & Activity 1,437 4 1,433 41 Accommodation & Destinations 960 210 750 78 Emerging Markets 12 All other segments and unallocated items 32 Total Group 15,706 655 15,051 589 Year ended 30 September 2012 Underlying Intersegmental Total external operating Total revenue revenue revenue profit loss restated restated restated restated Sector m m m m UK & Ireland 3,756 122 3,634 197 Germany 3,932 15 3,917 87 Nordics 1,085 1 1,084 71 French tour operator 903 903 32 French airline 403 43 360 15 Hotels 191 166 25 6 Rest of Mainstream 2,469 74 2,395 106 Total Mainstream 12,739 421 12,318 420 Specialist & Activity 1,479 1 1,478 48 Accommodation & Destinations 859 195 664 66 Emerging Markets 15 All other segments and unallocated items 29 Total Group 15,077 617 14,460 490 Reconciliation of Group underlying operating profit to profit before tax Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 Note m m Group underlying operating profit 589 490 Separately disclosed items 4 24 92 Acquisition related expenses 13 A 65 62 Impairment of goodwill 10 188 20 Impairment of available for sale financial asset 10 Taxation on profits and interest of joint ventures and associates 12 15 5 Operating profit 297 301 Net financial expenses 5 116 100 Profit before tax 181 201 20 Financial XNoteX3XXX9Xincl v75 copy.
indd 124 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIc REPORT 125 BUSINESS AND FINANcIAl REvIEw DIREcTORS REPORT FInancIal STaTeMenTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION Other segmental information Total depreciation of property, plant and equipment and capital expenditure amortisation of intangible assets 2012 2012 2013 restated 2013 restated Sector m m m m UK & Ireland 244 231 83 79 Germany 50 32 18 13 Nordics 17 5 5 3 French tour operator 6 6 10 11 French airline 74 70 24 15 Hotels 9 9 15 14 Rest of Mainstream 80 14 22 15 Total Mainstream 480 367 177 150 Specialist & Activity 34 43 35 39 Accommodation & Destinations 40 30 33 29 All other segments and unallocated items 8 19 3 1 Total Group 562 459 248 219 Total depreciation of property, plant and equipment and amortisation of intangible assets of 248m 2012: 219m comprises 91m 2012: 92m of amortisation of intangible assets as shown in Note 10 and 157m 2012: 127m of depreciation of property, plant and equipment as shown in Note 11.
Reconciliation of capital expenditure to amounts included in the financial statements Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 Note m m Total Group capital expenditure as shown above 562 459 Analysed as: Additions to intangible assets 102 88 Additions to property, plant and equipment 460 371 562 459 Reconciliation to the notes to the financial statements Additions to intangible assets in segmental analysis 102 88 Additions to goodwill 3 Intangible assets: total additions 10 102 91 Additions to property, plant and equipment in segmental analysis 460 371 Property, plant and equipment: total additions 11 460 371 Included within the 460m 2012: 371m total additions to property, plant and equipment are 187m 2012: 109m of additions to aircraft and equipment, as disclosed in Note 11. entity wide disclosures The UK is the Groups country of domicile.
In addition to the United Kingdom, revenue relating to an individual country is separately disclosed when it represents broadly 10% or more of total revenue.
Other Europe is defined as Continental Europe and Eire excluding UK, Germany and France.
Non-current assets for the table above excludes all non-current financial assets and instruments, investments in joint ventures and associates, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets in accordance with IFRS 8.
indd 125 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 126 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Separately disclosed items Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Restructuring and other separately disclosed items 59 102 Aircraft and other assets 23 Pension related credit 25 litigation provisions 13 17 change in accounting estimates 27 Total 24 92 Separately disclosed items within operating profit are included within the consolidated income statement as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Revenue 1 cost of sales 4 Administrative expenses 19 92 Total 24 92 Restructuring and other separately disclosed items The overall charge of 59m includes 54m of restructuring costs.
29m of the restructuring costs arise in the Mainstream business, with 25m occurring in France from the ongoing restructure of the tour operator and the airline.
In particular, a 19m charge has been taken in the final quarter of the year as a result of a voluntary redundancy programme being announced in the French tour operator, to reduce overhead costs further given the difficult trading environment it is experiencing at present.
There has been a total of 18m of restructuring costs incurred in the Specialist & Activity Sector in the current financial year due to the removal of the Sector management team, the closure of a business in the Education division, further restructuring of the PEAK adventure business based in Melbourne, Australia and rationalisation of overseas bases in the Marine division.
within the Accommodation & Destinations Sector, 7m of restructuring costs have arisen due to several programmes aimed at rationalising the business structure and moving to a number of regional shared service centres in Europe, Asia and the Americas.
In addition to these restructuring costs, the most significant other item is a 4m charge due to the change in value of unhedged foreign currency derivative instruments relating to future seasons.
Included in the year ended 30 September 2012 were Mainstream restructuring costs of 66m which principally related to: the restructuring programmes in the French tour operator and airline, being 66m in total: the 5m restructure of the Moroccan airline, Jet4You: and offset by a 7m release of unused provision in the German tour operator.
In addition, a total of 24m restructuring costs were incurred across the Specialist & Activity and Accommodation & Destinations Sectors.
8m of this total arose from restructuring actions taken in the Adventure division: 6m arose from the write-down of specific ski chalet assets: 4m arose from actions taken in the Marine division: and 3m from the finalisation of restructuring programmes in Greece, Morocco and Tunisia.
A total of 12m of costs were incurred in Group head office companies, being primarily to support the various restructuring programmes around the Group.
aircraft and other assets During the year ended 30 September 2013, a total credit of 18m has been recognised which arises from various aircraft transactions.
Significantly, this is the first year in which the Group has incurred costs to enable a new type of aircraft, the Boeing 787 Dreamliner, to be brought into service.
As part of the funding of these costs, the Group is entitled to certain credits which in some cases are taken directly to the income statement and in others are used to offset against the cost of each aircraft.
These are therefore reported as sale and leaseback profits in the income statement when the aircraft is delivered and the sale and leaseback transaction is executed.
The entry into service costs, the associated credits and sale and leaseback profits have all been included in separately disclosed items due to the size and nature of the items and the imperfect matching between costs being incurred and credits being recognised in the income statement.
Entry into service costs will continue to be incurred in the next financial year as further Boeing 787 deliveries occur and more aircraft are brought into service.
In addition to the aircraft items, a credit of 5m has been recognised from uplifting the value of the Groups total investment in The Airline Group Limited to reflect the fair value agreed under the terms of the disposal agreement announced on 19 November 2013.
indd 126 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIc REPORT 127 BUSINESS AND FINANcIAl REvIEw DIREcTORS REPORT FInancIal STaTeMenTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION Pension related credit In the Netherlands, the management and Works Council of TUI Nederland NV agreed to close the existing defined benefit pension scheme and replace it with a defined contribution scheme.
This change is classified as a curtailment under IAS 19 and the resultant reduction in accrued pension liabilities of 14m has been recognised in the income statement in the period in which it occurred.
The management of TUI Nederland Nv and the pension scheme trustees also agreed to transfer the existing pension fund assets and liabilities to AEGON, a multinational life insurance, pensions and asset management company headquartered in the Netherlands.
This transfer of the pension assets and liabilities has been approved by the Dutch pension regulator and has now been accounted for, generating a further credit in the income statement of 11m.
Further details of these transactions are disclosed in Note 6 c. litigation provisions At the year end the Group has continued to assess the likely outcome of the legal actions in which it is involved and, in accordance with IAS 37, has recognised provisions where it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation.
This year the process has resulted in a charge to the income statement of 13m 15m in respect of the penalties agreed with the Spanish tax authorities on 11 October 2013 under the terms of the settlement reached Note 8.
In the year ended 30 September 2012, the Groups assessment of the likely outcome of the legal actions in which it was then involved resulted in a charge to the income statement of 17m.
change in accounting estimates During the year ended 30 September 2012, the Group reviewed the estimates used in calculating aircraft maintenance provisions and empty leg provisions to ensure consistency of application of the latest estimates across the Group.
This process resulted in a credit to the income statement of 27m, which due to its size was included as a separately disclosed item.
Net financial expenses Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Financial income Bank interest receivable 19 15 Interest on pension scheme assets Note 6 c 67 72 Other financial income 9 Total 86 96 Financial expenses Bank interest payable on loans and overdrafts 23 19 Finance charges on convertible bond 63 62 Interest on pension scheme liabilities Note 6 c 81 86 Interest payable on shareholder loans 2 Finance lease charges and interest on debt financed aircraft 12 7 Unwinding of discount on provisions Note 22 5 8 Facility fees 13 12 Other financial expenses 5 Total 202 196 Net financial expenses 116 100 20 Financial XNoteX3XXX9Xincl v75 copy.
indd 127 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 128 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Employees A Average number of employees The average monthly number of employees in the year in the Group by Sector, including Directors on service contracts and key management, was as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 number Number By Sector Mainstream 38,381 38,235 Specialist & Activity 6,560 6,773 Accommodation & Destinations 10,029 8,732 Emerging Markets 8 corporate 428 350 Total 55,406 54,090 B Employee costs Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m wages and salaries 1,489 1,412 Social security costs 252 252 Pension costs: Defined benefit pension scheme curtailment and settlement disclosed in separately disclosed items 25 Pension costs: Defined benefit pension scheme cost 40 26 Pension costs: Defined contribution pension scheme cost 29 27 Share-based payments Note 6 D 17 17 Total 1,802 1,734 Included within wages and salaries are 40m 2012: 35m of wages and salaries and 4m 2012: 16m of social security costs in relation to redundancy costs that are included within separately disclosed items in Note 4.
C Pension costs The Group operates pension schemes for employees eligible and wishing to participate in the schemes.
These comprise both defined contribution and defined benefit schemes.
Pension obligations vary reflecting the different legal and market conditions in each country of operation.
Defined contribution schemes are funded by the payment of contributions to private and state-run organisations, whilst defined benefit schemes comprise both funded and unfunded schemes.
The assets of all the funded defined benefit schemes are held separately from the assets of the Group.
Defined contribution schemes for employees and Directors current contributions are recognised as an expense in the year and once paid the Group has no further liability.
Pension costs of 29m 2012: 27m relating to defined contribution schemes were charged to the income statement.
Defined benefit pension schemes The movement of defined benefit pension obligations and assets is detailed below, summarised as UK, Germany and Other.
Other includes funded schemes in Ireland, the Netherlands up until the date of closure of this scheme, Switzerland and Norway, whilst the main unfunded arrangements are in Austria and France.
Almost all UK schemes are funded whilst German schemes are unfunded.
The funded schemes in the UK are closed to new members.
The Group has established a Pension Funding Partnership arrangement PFP including TUI Travel Amber Scot lP SlP and TUI Travel Amber E&w llP llP, together the Partnerships the Partnerships.
The main operating brands of the UK business, namely Thomson and First choice, were transferred to the llP and three pension schemes subscribed for interests in the llP via the SlP.
TUI UK limited pays a royalty to the llP for the use of the brands.
The Britannia Airways limited Superannuation and life Assurance Scheme, the TUI Pension Scheme UK and the Thomson Airways Pension Scheme in aggregate are entitled to an annual income distribution of approximately 17m.
The PFP has a life of 15 years from inception, after which the schemes will receive a payment equal to their outstanding funding deficit, up to a maximum of 275m in aggregate, in return for their interest in the PFP.
The Partnerships are controlled by the Group and their results are consolidated by the Group.
There is no net impact on the Group balance sheet, the IAS 19 deficit or income statement.
The investment held by the pension schemes does not meet the definition of a scheme asset under IAS 19, and is therefore not included within the fair value of scheme assets disclosed in the Group financial statements.
The recognition of the brand assets in the Group financial statements remains unaffected by the establishment of the PFP, although the Thomson and First Choice brands, the latter of which is recognised on the Group balance sheet, are now being held as security for the PFP.
See Note 10 for more information.
indd 128 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIc REPORT 129 BUSINESS AND FINANcIAl REvIEw DIREcTORS REPORT FInancIal STaTeMenTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION In September 2013, the company and the Trustees of the Britannia Airways limited Superannuation and life Assurance Scheme, the TUI Pension Scheme UK and the Thomson Airways Pension Scheme reached agreement on the 2012 scheme valuations and associated funding contributions.
As part of this settlement, 30m was paid into an escrow account on behalf of the schemes, ahead of year end.
This was a performance related payment in respect of the current year.
The level of payments in subsequent years is dependent on the rate of growth in underlying earnings.
Following the completion of formal legal documentation, the 30m was released from the escrow account to the schemes in October 2013.
This amount is reported within prepayments at year end, since it met neither the definition of scheme assets within IAS 19 nor cash.
Details of the current funding commitments of these three UK schemes are shown below, excluding the performance related element which is not quantifiable in advance.
Date of last full Average employee Scheme name actuarial valuation Average Group contribution rate contribution rate Britannia Airways limited Superannuation and life Assurance Scheme 31 March 2012 14.0% plus 33.5m per annum deficit contribution and 12.2m PFP income 10.0% TUI Pension Scheme UK 31 March 2012 11.5% plus 13.7m per annum deficit contribution and 4.2m PFP income 7.2% Thomson Airways Pension Scheme 31 March 2012 19.8% plus 3.0m per annum deficit contribution plus 0.5m PFP income 14.6% Where there is more than a single class of membership, contribution rates reflect weighted average values within the scheme.
Contribution rates are stated before adjustment for salary sacrifice arrangements where applicable.
The principal unfunded schemes in Germany are shown below.
These were all subject to a full actuarial valuation within three months preceding the balance sheet date: Scheme name Status versorgungsordnung Hapag-lloyd Fluggesellschaft GmbH Open to new members versorgungsordnung TUI Deutschland GmbH closed to new members versorgungsordnung TUI leisure Travel GmbH closed to new members Within Other territories, TUI Nederland NV and the Works Council agreed to close the existing defined benefit pension scheme and replace it with a defined contribution scheme.
This change is classified as a curtailment under IAS 19 and the resultant reduction in accrued pension liabilities of 14m has been recognised in the consolidated income statement in the year.
The management of TUI Nederland Nv and the pension scheme trustees have also agreed to transfer the existing pension fund assets and liabilities to AEGON, a multinational life insurance, pensions and asset management company headquartered in the Netherlands.
The agreement was contingent on approval by the Dutch pension regulator, which was received in April 2013.
This transfer of the pension assets and liabilities generated a further credit in the income statement of 11m which is accounted for as a settlement gain under IAS 19.
The gains on curtailment and settlement are recognised within administrative expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Valuations of the schemes are made by qualified actuaries using market based valuations for the assets and the projected unit method for the liabilities.
The Group recognises all actuarial gains or losses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The assets of each scheme have been taken at market value and liabilities in each territory have been calculated using the following principal assumptions: 1 3 UK per annum Germany per annum Other per annum 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 % % % % % % RPI inflation 3.3 2.7 1.3 2.6 1.2 2.2 2 2 Pensionable salary inflation 2.7 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.4 2.7 Discount rate 4.4 4.5 3.5 3.3 2.7 3.0 1 Pension increases in payment across the UK Schemes reflect either fixed increases or index linked increases, subject to minimum and maximum limits applicable to each class of benefit.
2 UK pensionable salary increase is capped at 2.5% for all employees earning over 31,519.
3 The assumptions for Other are a weighted average.
indd 129 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 130 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Employees continued The mortality assumptions underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for each territory are set out in the tables below.
The mortality assumptions are based on relevant standard mortality tables in each territory: UK life expectancy weighted average 2013 2012 Years Years Males life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 23.1 22.6 life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 24.5 23.9 Females life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 25.5 24.5 life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 27.0 26.1 Germany life expectancy 2013 2012 Years Years Males life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 18.8 18.6 life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 21.4 21.3 Females life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 22.8 22.7 life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 25.4 25.3 Other life expectancy weighted average 2013 2012 Years Years Males life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 20.7 21.6 life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 23.0 22.7 Females life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, on the balance sheet date 23.2 23.8 life expectancy in years for a pensioner retiring aged 65, 20 years after the balance sheet date 25.6 24.9 The fair value of assets of the schemes in each territory are set out below: UK Germany Other Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m m m Equities 526 483 2 1 528 484 Government debt 233 241 101 233 342 corporate bonds 253 222 253 222 Property 75 70 75 70 cash and cash equivalents 4 6 9 4 15 Other 181 174 48 36 229 210 Total 1,272 1,196 50 147 1,322 1,343 The expected rates of return on each category of assets in each territory are as follows: UK Germany Other 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 % % % % % % Equities 7.8 7.1 n a n a 7.0 7.0 Government debt 3.4 2.6 n a n a n a 2.6 corporate bonds 4.4 4.5 n a n a n a 3.3 Property 6.9 6.1 n a n a n a 5.0 cash and cash equivalents 0.5 0.5 n a n a n a 0.5 Other 7.0 6.2 n a n a 4.6 2.0 Overall expected rate of return 6.1 5.5 n a n a 4.6 2.4 The overall expected rate of return is calculated by weighting the individual rates in accordance with the anticipated balance in the schemes investment portfolio.
The fair values of the schemes assets are not intended to be realised in the short term and may be subject to significant change before they are realised.
indd 130 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIc REPORT 131 BUSINESS AND FINANcIAl REvIEw DIREcTORS REPORT FInancIal STaTeMenTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION changes in the fair value of scheme assets in each territory are as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m m m Balance at beginning of year 1,196 1,077 147 145 1,343 1,222 Expected return on scheme assets 65 67 2 5 67 72 company contributions 55 56 7 4 62 60 Member contributions 1 2 1 2 Benefits paid 79 71 2 7 81 78 Assets distributed on settlement 107 107 Experience gains losses 35 67 2 9 33 76 Foreign exchange 4 11 4 11 Balance at end of year 1,272 1,196 50 147 1,322 1,343 Actual return on scheme assets 100 134 14 100 148 Employer contributions in the following year are expected to be 116m in respect of the UK and 2m in respect of Other.
The UK value includes 17m in respect of income distribution from the PFP and 30m paid into escrow prior to the year end and classified as a prepayment at the year end.
The composition of the fair value of scheme assets in each territory is as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m m m Schemes with surplus of assets 2 11 9 13 9 Schemes with deficit of assets 1,270 1,196 39 138 1,309 1,334 Total 1,272 1,196 50 147 1,322 1,343 Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations in each territory are as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m m m Balance at beginning of year 1,624 1,436 168 129 199 171 1,991 1,736 current service cost 17 14 12 7 6 6 35 27 Past service cost 5 5 Interest cost on obligation 72 74 6 6 3 6 81 86 Benefits paid 79 71 3 2 4 9 86 82 Member contributions 1 2 1 2 Curtailment settlement 132 1 132 1 Actuarial losses gains 71 171 13 41 2 36 56 248 Amounts arising from business combinations 16 16 Reclassification 1 1 Foreign exchange 10 13 6 13 16 26 Balance at end of year 1,705 1,624 201 168 77 199 1,983 1,991 The amounts recognised in the consolidated income statement for the years ended 30 September 2013 and 30 September 2012 for each territory are as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m m m current service cost 17 14 12 7 6 6 35 27 Past service cost 5 5 Curtailment settlement 25 1 25 1 Interest on defined benefit pension scheme obligation 72 74 6 6 3 6 81 86 Expected return on defined benefit pension scheme 65 67 2 5 67 72 Total 24 21 23 13 18 6 29 40 20 Financial XNoteX3XXX9Xincl v76 copy.
indd 131 18 12 2013 11:05 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 132 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Employees continued These amounts are included within the following expense income categories in the consolidated income statement: UK Germany Other Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m m m cost of sales 7 6 16 6 4 4 27 16 Administrative expenses 10 8 1 1 23 1 12 10 Financial expenses 72 74 6 6 3 6 81 86 Financial income 65 67 2 5 67 72 Total 24 21 23 13 18 6 29 40 The 25m gain arising on curtailment and settlement of the TUI Nederland scheme is included within the administrative expenses of Other schemes.
The amounts included within equity for the years ended 30 September 2013 and 30 September 2012 for each territory are as follows: UK Germany Other Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m m m cumulative losses brought forward 656 552 51 13 55 31 762 596 Losses gains recognised during the year 36 104 13 41 27 23 172 Reclassification to profit and loss reserve 48 48 Amounts arising from business combinations 7 7 Foreign exchange 2 3 2 3 4 6 cumulative losses carried forward 692 656 47 51 9 55 748 762 Following the closure of the TUI Nederland scheme, 48m has been transferred from the Groups IAS 19 reserve to profit and loss reserve, both of which are included within the Groups accumulated losses.
Trend analysis information in respect of the UK, Germany and Other territories is as follows: UK 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Present value of scheme liabilities 1,705 1,624 1,436 1,422 1,327 Fair value of scheme assets 1,272 1,196 1,077 1073 942 Deficit 433 428 359 349 385 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 34 2 22 3 23 change in actuarial assumption loss 105 169 22 51 249 Total actuarial loss on scheme liabilities 71 171 44 54 272 Experience gain loss on scheme assets 35 67 54 39 37 Total actuarial loss 36 104 98 15 235 20 Financial XNoteX3XXX9Xincl v75 copy.
indd 132 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIc REPORT 133 BUSINESS AND FINANcIAl REvIEw DIREcTORS REPORT FInancIal STaTeMenTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION Germany 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Present value of scheme liabilities 201 168 129 117 97 Fair value of scheme assets Deficit 201 168 129 117 97 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 4 1 3 3 Change in actuarial assumption gain loss 9 40 6 19 16 Total actuarial gain loss on scheme liabilities 13 41 6 16 13 Experience gain on scheme assets Total actuarial gain loss 13 41 6 16 13 Other 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Present value of scheme liabilities 77 199 171 170 156 Fair value of scheme assets 50 147 145 142 137 Deficit 27 52 26 28 19 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 1 4 1 2 1 Change in actuarial assumption gain loss 1 32 12 13 21 Total actuarial gain loss on scheme liabilities 2 36 11 11 20 Experience loss gain on scheme assets 2 9 8 3 Total actuarial loss gain 27 3 11 23 Total 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Present value of scheme liabilities 1,983 1,991 1,736 1,709 1,580 Fair value of scheme assets 1,322 1,343 1,222 1,215 1,079 Deficit 661 648 514 494 501 Total 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 39 7 23 2 19 change in actuarial assumption loss 241 4 83 286 95 Total actuarial loss on scheme liabilities 56 248 27 81 305 Experience gain loss on scheme assets 33 76 62 39 34 Total actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income 23 172 89 42 271 20 Financial XNoteX3XXX9Xincl v75 copy.
indd 133 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 134 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Employees continued Reconciliation of defined benefit obligations and scheme assets to values recognised in the balance sheet: UK Germany Other Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m m m Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 1 1 201 168 18 17 220 186 Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 1,704 1,623 59 182 1,763 1,805 Fair value of scheme assets 1,272 1,196 50 147 1,322 1,343 Recognised liability for defined benefit obligation 433 428 201 168 27 52 661 648 Analysed as: Retirement benefit current liabilities 3 2 3 2 Retirement benefit non-current liabilities 433 428 198 166 27 52 658 646 Total 433 428 201 168 27 52 661 648 The sensitivity of the fair value of the defined pension deficit to the key financial and demographic assumptions is illustrated below: UK Germany Other Total 2013 2013 2013 2013 m m m m Decrease to deficit of increasing discount rate by 0.25% 77 9 1 87 Increase to deficit of reducing discount rate by 0.25% 82 10 2 94 Increase to deficit of increasing all life expectancies by 1 year 56 4 1 61 D Share award schemes The company operates three principal share award schemes which are designed to link remuneration to the future performance of the Group.
The schemes are the Performance Share Plan PSP, the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme DABS and the Deferred Annual Bonus long-Term Incentive Scheme DABlIS.
All shares under these schemes involve both service and performance conditions and are awarded at nil cost to participants.
The DABlIS scheme is described below and the other two schemes are described in the Remuneration Report along with the relevant vesting criteria.
indd 134 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIc REPORT 135 BUSINESS AND FINANcIAl REvIEw DIREcTORS REPORT FInancIal STaTeMenTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION The number of share awards at the beginning and end of the year is as follows: number of awards Number of awards 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 Outstanding at the beginning of the year excluding deferred shares 28,249,566 26,346,949 Forfeited during the year 3,846,931 4,784,495 Reclassified as share appreciation rights 219,552 Exercised during the year 5,076,118 5,882,575 Granted during the year 7,799,568 12,789,239 Outstanding at the end of the year excluding deferred shares 27,126,085 28,249,566 In addition to the above shares, there are 3,118,873 2012: 2,491,300 deferred shares outstanding in relation to the Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme.
These are due to vest between 6 December 2013 and 6 December 2015.
In respect of the Deferred Annual Bonus long-Term Incentive Scheme there are an additional 4,465,568 2012: 4,406,287 deferred shares.
No material awards have been made to date under the Groups HMRc approved Share Incentive Plan which is an all-employee share plan.
The fair value of services received in return for shares awarded during the year is measured by reference to the fair value of the shares awarded.
The fair value at the date the shares were awarded has been estimated using a binomial methodology for all schemes except where there is a market-based performance condition attached to vesting, in which case a Monte carlo simulation was used.
The principal assumptions required by these methodologies were: 2013 2012 Information relating to fair values of shares awarded Fair value at measurement date 1.45-2.45 0.85-1.46 Share price 2.84 1.66 Expected volatility 35.5% 36.1% Award life 3 years 3 years Expected dividends 4.94% 4.47% Risk free interest rate 0.42% 0.54% Participants are not entitled to dividends prior to vesting.
Expected volatility is based on historic volatility adjusted for changes to future volatility indicated by publicly available information.
Shares were awarded under a service condition.
employee expenses for the year Employee expenses for the current and prior year relating to share-based schemes are: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Equity-settled 15 16 Expense arising for share appreciation rights 2 1 Total 17 17 Share appreciation rights certain participants other than Board Directors are eligible to receive their awards on a cash settled basis, the calculation of which exactly replicates the formal share-based scheme.
Deferred annual Bonus long-Term Incentive Scheme The Deferred Annual Bonus long-Term Incentive Scheme DABlIS is for participants below the GMB level and requires a 25% deferral of any annual performance bonus award into shares.
Matching shares may also be awarded up to four times the deferred amount and are subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions over a three year period.
Awards of deferred and matching shares are subject to forfeiture conditions until the release date.
The earliest point at which the shares are eligible for release is at the end of three years following deferral.
For awards of matching shares made during the year, no shares will vest unless the annual average of the ratio of the Groups return on invested capital ROIc to the weighted average cost of capital wAcc meets or exceeds one over the three year period.
A hurdle of ROIc, being at least equal to wAcc, is used to ensure that the relevant long term incentive awards pay out only when shareholder value is being created over the performance periods.
If the ROIC WACC hurdle is met, shares will only vest to the extent to which three further performance conditions are satisfied over the three year period as follows: Up to half of the matching shares will vest based on achievement of an aggregate EBITA profit target for the participants Sector over the three year performance period.
indd 135 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 136 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Employees continued achievement of aggregate eBITa target Proportion of award that vests At or below 75% 0% Between 75% and 100% On a straight line basis between 10% and 100% At or above 100% 100% Up to one quarter of the matching shares will vest based on growth in the Groups earnings per share EPS, in relation to the growth in the UK Retail Price Index RPI as shown in the table below: average annual ePS growth in excess of RPI growth Proportion of award that vests Below 4% 0% Between 4% and 13% On a straight line basis between 10% and 100% 13% or above 100% In respect of awards made prior to 30 September 2011, up to one quarter of the matching shares will vest based on the Groups ranking of total shareholder return TSR performance relative to companies ranked 30th to 100th by market capitalisation on the london Stock Exchange as at the date of the award as shown in the table below: TSR Ranking Proportion of award that vests Below median 0% Between median and upper quartile On a straight line basis between 15% and 100% At or above upper quartile 100% In respect of awards made after 1 October 2011, up to one quarter of the matching shares will vest based on the Groups total shareholder return TSR performance relative to an average of the TSR performance of an index of international travel and leisure companies.
Deloitte provides the Group with the TSR measurement as required.
The index is considered to be the most appropriate benchmark for comparison purposes.
The companies included in the index are: 1 Aer lingus Group 9 Finnair 17 Pierre & vacances 2 Air Berlin 10 FirstGroup 18 Priceline.
com 3 Air France-KlM 11 Flight centre 19 Royal caribbean cruises 4 Carnival 12 Hertz Global Holdings 20 Ryanair Holdings 5 club Mediterranee 13 International consolidated Airlines Group 21 Stagecoach Group 6 Deutsche lufthansa 14 Kuoni Reisen Holding 22 Thomas cook Group 7 easyJet 15 National Express Group 23 wotif.
com Holdings 8 Expedia 16 Norwegian Air Shuttle TUI Travels TSR performance Proportion of award that vests Below index 0% Between index and index 8% per annum inclusive On a straight line basis between 15% and 100% Exceeding index 8% per annum 100% Matching share awards lapse if the performance conditions are not met.
E Remuneration of Directors Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Emoluments 7 7 Pensions and other retirement benefits 1 1 Total 8 8 Further information is provided in the audited section of the Remuneration Report.
indd 136 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIc REPORT 137 BUSINESS AND FINANcIAl REvIEw DIREcTORS REPORT FInancIal STaTeMenTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION 7.
Income, expenses and auditors remuneration Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Included within operating profit in the consolidated income statement for the year are the following credits charges: Operating lease income: aircraft 40 47 Operating lease income: land and buildings 2 2 Operating lease rentals: land and buildings, aircraft and other equipment 604 619 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 157 127 Amortisation of intangible assets: business combination intangibles 57 59 Amortisation of intangible assets: other intangibles 34 33 charge for share-based payments 17 17 Profit on sale of property, plant and equipment 10 9 Profit loss on foreign currency retranslation 19 14 Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles 199 30 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 3 12 Operating lease rental costs include nil 2012: 10m of costs included in separately disclosed items Note 4 as provisions for onerous leases, primarily related to vacated properties.
In addition to the operating lease rentals disclosed above, charges of 102m 2012: 186m were incurred in respect of hotel accommodation rentals which are disclosed as operating leases under IFRIc 4: Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
The Group leases aircraft throughout the year, and, in certain circumstances, sub-leases a number of such aircraft when it has the capacity to do so, in order to maximise operational efficiency.
Up to 15 aircraft are leased to other airline companies at fixed rates.
In addition, up to 13 aircraft are leased to the Sunwing Travel Group Sunwing, an associate of the Group.
The aircraft leased to Sunwing are winter only leases and are at market rates.
The expected income from future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases is as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 Minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: m m within one year 32 38 Between one and five years 49 64 Later than five years 23 30 Total 104 132 Services provided by the companys auditors and its associates During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the companys auditor and its associates: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditors for the audit of the Parent Company and consolidated financial statements 1 1 Fees payable to the companys auditors and its associates for other services: Audit of the companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 5 4 Auditors remuneration for audit services 6 5 Other services provided to comply with legislation 1 1 Audit and audit related services 7 6 All other services 2 2 Relate principally to the interim review and airline regulatory returns.
Fees charged to the consolidated income statement in 2013 in respect of all other services, totalling 2m, includes 850,000 for their work on the class 1 shareholder circular in respect of aircraft orders with Boeing, 420,000 in respect of the implementation of the cOSO framework in the German businesses and 266,000 of tax advice in respect of expatriates.
Fees charged to the consolidated income statement in 2012 in respect of all other services, totalling 2m, included 573,000 in respect of IT consultancy, 287,000 in respect of the implementation of the cOSO framework and 220,000 of tax advice in respect of expatriates.
indd 137 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 138 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Taxation The tax charge can be summarised as follows: i Analysis of charge in the year Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 Note m m current tax charge UK corporation tax on profit for the year 6 Non-UK tax on profit loss for the year 92 70 Adjustments in respect of previous years 45 42 143 28 Deferred tax charge credit Origination and reversal of temporary differences: current year UK 9 21 current year non-UK 7 9 changes in tax rates 4 11 Adjustments in respect of previous years 45 5 14 25 36 Total income tax charge in consolidated income statement 118 64 Following the annual review of the local tax positions in a number of the Groups major operating jurisdictions during the year, certain tax balances have been adjusted to reflect the position of the latest local statutory accounts and tax returns.
These adjustments in respect of prior years have been reflected in the current year income statement tax charge.
ii Reconciliation of effective tax rate The total tax charge 2012: charge for the year is higher 2012: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.5% 2012: 25%.
The differences are explained below: Year ended Year ended 30 September 2013 30 September 2012 m % m % Profit before tax reported in the consolidated income statement 181 201 Less share of profit in joint ventures and associates Note 12 17 5 164 196 Income tax on profit before tax excluding share of profit of joint ventures and associates at the standard rate of UK tax of 23.5% 2012: 25% 39 24 49 25 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 51 31 23 12 Income not taxable 10 6 10 5 Tax losses not recognised as an asset 33 20 38 19 Utilisation of tax losses not previously recognised 7 4 4 2 Higher tax rates on overseas earnings losses 8 5 3 2 changes in tax rates 4 2 12 6 Adjustments to taxation in respect of previous years 47 24 Total income tax charge in consolidated income statement 118 72 64 33 The underlying effective rate of taxation for the year ended 30 September 2013 is calculated based on the underlying profit before tax excluding separately disclosed items, acquisition related expenses and impairment charges and is calculated at 27%.
The actual tax rate of 72% differs from the underlying effective tax rate primarily due to the tax effect of the non-recognition of tax losses in France and goodwill impairment charges of 188m on which no tax deduction is available.
iii Deferred tax recognised outside of the consolidated income statement The following taxation credit charge has been recognised outside of the consolidated income statement: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income Cash flow hedges 22 15 Defined benefit pension plans 11 32 Total tax credited to other comprehensive income 11 47 Tax credited directly to equity convertible bonds 3 3 Total 14 50 20 Financial XNoteX3XXX9Xincl v75 copy.
indd 138 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIc REPORT 139 BUSINESS AND FINANcIAl REvIEw DIREcTORS REPORT FInancIal STaTeMenTS SHAREHOlDER INFORMATION iv Factors affecting future tax charge A At the balance sheet date, the Finance Act 2013 had been enacted confirming that the main UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and 20% from 1 April 2015.
Therefore, at 30 September 2013, deferred tax assets and liabilities have been calculated based on a rate of 20% where the temporary difference is expected to reverse after 1 April 2015.
These reductions may also reduce the companys future current tax charges accordingly.
B During 2012, the German tax authorities issued new guidance on how certain items of expenditure should be treated for the purposes of German trade tax.
In 2013 the German tax authorities provided some additional clarification and informed the Group that, in their opinion, the guidance is applicable to tour operating activities in Germany.
The Group continues to disagree with this interpretation.
It is possible that the issue will have to be litigated through the German tax courts and it could take a considerable amount of time to bring it to a resolution.
It is difficult to estimate accurately the potential liability should the German tax authorities challenge successfully the Groups interpretation of the guidance, due to the differing nature of the contracts which could be impacted by any such challenge.
As a result there is a range of possible outcomes.
If the Group is successful in its arguments there would be no exposure.
However, it is possible that the liability over the previous six years 2012: five years could be up to a total of approximately 80m 2012: 64m, although the Group believes that German trade tax law should not apply to standard tour operating contracts and that any liability would be substantially less than this.
C Other factors which may affect the future tax charge include the mix of jurisdictions with different tax rates in which profits and losses arise, changes in tax rates and the potential future recognition of tax losses for which a deferred tax asset has not been recognised at the year end Note 14. v Spanish tax case In the Groups financial statements for 2010, 2011 and 2012, it was disclosed that the Spanish tax authorities were contesting the Spanish corporate income tax treatment of two transactions undertaken by two of the Groups Spanish subsidiary companies during the period 2002 to 2006.
Throughout the tax audit process, the Group has engaged fully and openly with the Spanish tax authorities and has supplied considerable documentary support and Spanish technical tax analysis to explain the commercial and economic rationale and Spanish corporate income tax treatment for the transactions.
These transactions were implemented after the Group had taken specialist external advice.
On 11 October 2013 agreement was reached on the terms of a settlement with the Spanish tax authorities.
The total of tax, interest and penalties is 50m.
The disputed tax of 30m has been lodged with the authorities in earlier financial years whilst the case was progressing, meaning that the settlement involves a further payment of interest and penalties totalling 20m.
The tax 30m and interest 5m amounts have been provided in previous years within tax charges and financial expenses respectively, whilst the penalties of 15m 13m have been accrued within administrative expenses in the year ended 30 September 2013 and included within separately disclosed items Note 4.
Dividends The following dividends which relate to the companys ordinary shares have been deducted from equity in the year: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September Pence 2013 2012 per share m m Dividends relating to the year ended 30 September 2011 Interim dividend paid October 2011 3.3 36 Final dividend paid April 2012 8.0 89 11.3 125 Dividends relating to the year ended 30 September 2012 Interim dividend paid October 2012 3.4 38 Final dividend paid April 2013 8.3 92 11.7 130 The interim dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2013 of 3.75p per share was paid on 4 October 2013 and this dividend of 42m will be recognised as a deduction from equity in the year ending 30 September 2014.
Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the Directors have proposed a final dividend of 9.75p per share 2012: final dividend of 8.3p per share payable on 9 April 2014 to the holders of relevant shares on the register at 7 March 2014.
The final proposed dividend amounts to 108m and will, after approval by shareholders, be recognised in the consolidated financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2014.
The final ordinary dividend of 9.75p per share, together with the interim dividend of 3.75p per share, makes a total dividend of 13.5p per share relating to the year ended 30 September 2013.
A dividend reinvestment plan is in operation.
Those shareholders who have not elected to participate in this plan, and who would like to participate with respect to the 2013 final dividend, may do so by contacting Equiniti directly on 0871 384 2030 or via the overseas helpline on 44 121 415 7047.
The last day for election for the final proposed dividend is 19 March 2014 and any requests should be made in good time ahead of that date.
indd 139 13 12 2013 18:01 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 140 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Intangible assets Customer Computer Software in Goodwill Brands relationships software Licences development Other Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 October 2011 4,549 459 205 449 37 30 168 5,897 Additions 3 1 40 43 4 91 Acquisition through business combinations 8 7 1 16 Disposals 1 29 1 31 Reclassification to assets held for sale 8 8 Foreign exchange 147 11 11 13 1 1 2 186 Reclassification of asset class 1 11 1 10 1 At 30 September 2012 4,413 455 195 459 26 62 169 5,779 Additions 52 49 1 102 Acquisition through business combinations 24 4 3 1 32 Disposals 1 2 185 1 6 195 Foreign exchange 68 2 7 8 1 2 88 Reclassification of asset class 18 18 At 30 September 2013 4,505 460 203 353 26 93 166 5,806 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 October 2011 646 109 61 336 16 5 82 1,255 Amortisation for the year 27 14 40 2 9 92 Impairment loss 20 2 8 30 Reclassification to assets held for sale 7 7 Disposals 28 28 Foreign exchange 29 3 3 7 1 1 1 45 At 30 September 2012 637 135 72 341 18 4 90 1,297 Amortisation for the year 25 14 42 2 8 91 Impairment loss 188 2 2 7 199 Disposals 1 2 181 1 2 187 Foreign exchange 14 1 2 4 1 22 At 30 September 2013 839 162 86 208 19 11 97 1,422 Net book value At 1 October 2011 3,903 350 144 113 21 25 86 4,642 At 30 September 2012 3,776 320 123 118 8 58 79 4,482 At 30 September 2013 3,666 298 117 145 7 82 69 4,384 Additions to computer software and software in development totalling 101m includes costs relating to major IT development projects across all Sectors within the Group, including the implementation of SAP across certain Mainstream Sectors and the development of digital solution platforms for our customers.
Goodwill impairment charges are discussed below.
A 2m impairment charge to brands has been recognised in the year following the decision to close one small business within the UK & Ireland.
A 9m impairment charge to computer software and software in development has been recognised following a decision to streamline certain IT infrastructure projects and reservation systems within the Group, in light of the Groups IT projects mentioned above.
The impairment charge to computer software and software in development is included within cost of sales.
Disposals of computer software during the year with a net value of 4m follows an extensive verification exercise undertaken by the Group to write out of the books fully depreciated and unutilised software assets in preparation for the Groups major IT development projects.
Amortisation of intangible assets is recognised within cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
Amortisation of business combination and other intangibles combined with depreciation of property, plant and equipment is disclosed by segment in Note 3.
indd 140 13 12 2013 18:02 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STrATeGIC rePOrT 141 BUSINeSS AND FINANCIAL revIew DIreCTOrS rePOrT FINANCIAl stAtemeNts ShArehOLDer INFOrMATION In 2011, the Group established a Pension Funding Partnership arrangement PFP.
The main operating brands of the UK business, namely Thomson and First Choice, were sold into the PFP and three UK pension schemes subscribed for interests in the PFP.
The recognition of the two brand assets in the Group financial statements remains unaffected by the establishment of the PFP, although the Thomson and First Choice brands, the latter of which is recognised on the Group balance sheet at a value of 94m 2012: 101m, are now being held as security for the PFP.
Individual intangible assets other than goodwill that are considered material to the Group are as follows: Brands Customer relationships Other intangible assets 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m First Choice brand 94 101 Marmara brand 27 27 Accommodation wholesaler customer relationships 66 70 Landing slots 28 30 121 128 66 70 28 30 The First Choice and Marmara brands are major brands of the UK & Ireland and French businesses respectively and have a remaining amortisation period of 14 years 2012: 15 years.
The customer relationships within the Accommodation & Destinations Accommodation wholesaler Sector are in respect of commercial contractual relationships with travel agents and have a remaining amortisation period of 9 years 2012: 10 years.
The landing slots are in respect of the UK & Ireland business for airports in the UK and have a remaining amortisation period of 14 years 2012: 15 years.
Goodwill impairment testing IAS 36 requires that impairment tests are carried out on CGUs, following the level at which the Groups management measures returns on operations.
Once every year, or more frequently if events or a change in the economic environment indicate a risk of impairment, the Group assesses the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to its CGUs as required by IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
The recoverable value of goodwill for all CGUs has been determined to be value in use.
The calculation of recoverable value for CGUs based on value in use includes the following assumptions: Cash flow projections based on the Groups latest Board approved three year business plan, which management has extended by two years to create a five year plan.
Cash flows beyond the plan period are extrapolated using a real growth rate of between 1.0% and 3.9% 2012: between 1.0% and 3.9%.
The growth rate used is less than or equal to third party estimates of the medium term GDP growth rates of the key geographic markets in which the specific CGU operates at the time the projections are prepared.
Cash flows are discounted using the Groups WACC adjusted as appropriate for business specific factors, such as geographic risk.
Cash flows exclude planned enhancement capital expenditure, together with the associated benefit that the expenditure is expected to produce.
Cash flows include the impact of working capital in both the asset base and the impact on cash flows over the plan period.
Central Group overheads are borne in full by CGUs and are allocated pro rata to the CGUs underlying operating profit.
Assumptions used in the five year plan take past experience into account with CGU specific and central contingencies in the five year plan being allocated to all CGUs.
Since determination of an appropriate Group wACC is judgemental, sensitivities also address how increases in the base Group wACC might impact the results of the impairment tests.
The Groups wACC is based on a capital asset pricing model calculation using a mixture of in-house data and externally available information.
An analysis of the aggregate and material carrying amounts of goodwill allocated to each principal CGU, together with the growth rates being applied to cash flows beyond the plan period and the pre-tax discount rates used for each CGU or group of similar CGUs is as follows: Growth rate applied to Goodwill cash flows after five year plan Pre-tax discount rate used 30 september 30 September 30 september 30 September 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Sector CGU m m % % % % Mainstream UK & Ireland 1,490 1,490 2.45 2.3 10 10 Mainstream Germany 407 364 1.4 1.5 11 11 Accommodation & Destinations Accommodation wholesaler 385 354 2.0 2.0 11 12 Mainstream Nordics 271 268 2.2 2.25 11 11 Accommodation & Destinations Accommodation OTA 239 232 3.43 3.15 10 10 Mainstream France 137 180 1.75 1.8 10 11 Specialist & Activity Adventure 129 131 2.78 3.25 11 11 Specialist & Activity Marine 73 105 2.1 2.1 10 11 All Sectors Multiple CGUs 535 652 1.0-3.9 1.0-3.9 10-14 10-14 total goodwill 3,666 3,776 The multiple CGUs not separately listed above do not individually represent more than 3% of total Group goodwill.
All of the Groups goodwill has been allocated to each CGU and all CGUs have been tested for impairment.
indd 141 13 12 2013 18:02 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 142 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill impairment charges If the recoverable amount of a CGU is estimated to be less than the total of its operating non-current assets, goodwill and other intangibles, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets on a pro rata basis.
The total impairment loss recognised in the year of 188m is equal to the difference between the net book values and the recoverable amounts and is analysed as follows: Goodwill impairment Pretax Pre-tax Long term Long term charge discount rate discount rate growth rate growth rate 2013 2013 2012 2013 2012 Sector & IFrS 8 reportable segment CGU m % % % % Mainstream France France 59 10 11 1.75 1.8 Specialist & Activity Marine 39 10 11 2.1 2.13 Specialist & Activity Sport 26 10 11 2.73 2.8 experience Specialist & Activity education 22 10 11 2.2 2.2 North American Specialist & Activity education 22 11 11 2.2 2.2 Mainstream Southern europe Italy 9 10 11 1.0 1.0 Mainstream Southern europe Spain 1 14 13 1.8 1.9 Goodwill impairment charge arising from the annual impairment test 178 Goodwill impairment charge recognised on closure of businesses 10 total goodwill impairment charges recognised in the year 188 All of the impairment charges arising from the Groups annual impairment test, which total 178m, have arisen as a result of a deterioration in forecast trading results within the five year plans, relative to the prior year.
The impairment test for all of these CGUs was based on the value in use calculation.
The impairment charges are disclosed within administrative expenses and shown separately on the face of the consolidated income statement.
The impairments arise since the cash flow model based on the current five year plan did not support the carrying amount of goodwill for these CGUs.
A further 10m goodwill impairment was recognised in the first half of the financial year in respect of two small businesses within the Specialist & Activity Sector that were identified as non-core to the Group, which are in the process of being closed, thereby providing an indication that the goodwill attached to those businesses is no longer supportable.
As such, the goodwill relating to these businesses has been fully impaired.
All CGUs for which an impairment charge has been recognised are tour operating businesses.
The CGUs within the Mainstream Sector represent the source geographical markets.
The Sport CGU within Specialist & Activity Sector specialises in the sports tour market for spectator and corporate clients whilst the two Education CGUs offer specially designed travel packages for schools and universities, including educational tours, student ski trips, adventure holidays and language courses.
In 2012, the Education division was considered to be one CGU incorporating both experience education and North American education.
During the current year, the UK based experience education businesses have been separated from the North American education businesses following a restructure in the operational management and separation of the day-today running and internal reporting of these businesses as from 1 October 2012.
As such these businesses are considered to be two separate CGUs and their assets have been tested on this basis.
sensitivity analysis for goodwill The calculation of recoverable amount is particularly sensitive to forecast future earnings, the discount rate and the long term growth rate.
The Directors have considered the separate impacts of: i increasing WACC by 0.5%: ii a reduction in underlying earnings of 5% across all years: and iii a reduction in the long term percentage growth rate beyond the five year plan to nil as being reasonably possible changes.
Impairment or further impairment charge arising from a reasonably possible change in assumption: reduction in reduction in the long term Increase in underlying percentage Goodwill WACC of 0.5% earnings of 5% growth rate to nil CGU m m m m France 137 8 16 19 Marine 73 17 18 45 experience education 49 6 17 16 North America education 37 4 7 12 Adventure 129 14 Sport 15 2 5 8 Accommodation OTA 239 30 25 113 russia 53 2 4 8 732 69 92 235 21 Financial XNoteX10XXX11Xincl v64 copy.
indd 142 13 12 2013 18:02 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STrATeGIC rePOrT 143 BUSINeSS AND FINANCIAL revIew DIreCTOrS rePOrT FINANCIAl stAtemeNts ShArehOLDer INFOrMATION In respect of Accommodation OTA, the recoverable amount equals the carrying amount and therefore any change to an assumption used in the test will cause an impairment.
For the russian CGU, the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount if, independently, the wACC increases by 0.25%, underlying earnings fall by 1% or the long term growth rate used falls from 3.75% to 3.45%.
For Adventure, a reduction in the long term growth rate from 2.78% to 1% would cause the recoverable amount to equal the carrying amount.
The values for all other CGUs in the table above represent additional impairment charges that would be incurred following a reasonably possible change in an assumption as the goodwill in these CGUs has already been impaired.
As such, for these CGUs, the remaining carrying amount equals the recoverable amount.
The sensitivities disclosed immediately above do not take account of any mitigating action that management would take should earnings decrease.
No other material impairments to goodwill or assets would arise following these reasonably possible changes in these key assumptions.
Based on all of the calculations undertaken, the Directors consider that the recoverable amount of goodwill in each CGU is at least equal to its current carrying value.
indd 143 18 12 2013 11:07 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 144 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment charges Of the 3m impairment charge in the year ended 30 September 2013, 1m relates to the impairment of an aircraft engine owned within the Belgium operating segment, 1m relates to the impairment of an aircraft engine owned within the UK & Ireland operating segment and 1m relates to the impairment of buildings owned within the UK & Ireland operating segment.
The impairment charges are included within cost of sales.
Of the 12m impairment charge in the year ended 30 September 2012, 6m related to the impairment of one aircraft owned within the UK & Ireland operating segment, 5m related to the impairment of motor vehicles within the Specialist & Activity Sector and 1m related to the impairment of office leasehold improvements within the French tour operating segment.
Additions to aircraft and equipment Additions of 187m 2012: 109m to aircraft and equipment relate to five aircraft 2012: three aircraft purchased during the year including four aircraft 2012: three aircraft purchased on finance leases as well as fleet improvements and capitalised maintenance on owned aircraft.
Advance payments for future delivery of aircraft Additions of 140m 2012: 133m to advance payments for future delivery of aircraft were due to payments made for the future delivery of 76 aircraft 2012: 16 aircraft and interest of 8m 2012: 9m that has been capitalised during the year at a rate of 5.4% 2012: 5.4%.
The disposal of 136m 2012: 80m from advance payments for future delivery of aircraft arises from the delivery and then sale and leaseback of 13 aircraft 2012: eight aircraft.
During the year advance payments for future delivery of aircraft with a value of 8m were transferred to assets held for sale prior to their subsequent disposal.
Disposals In addition to the disposal of 136m advance payments for future delivery of aircraft, other major disposals in the year consisted of 18m of net book value of aircraft of which the most significant element was two 747s operated by Corsair that were disposed of during the year, and 14m of disposals of other equipment of which the most significant element related to buyer furnished equipment on aircraft that were delivered and then subject to sale and operating lease back.
Significant cost and accumulated depreciation across all property, plant and equipment categories were also disposed of during the year, with little impact on net book value, due to an exercise performed by the UK & Ireland operating segment to identify and retire unutilised assets, most of which were already fully depreciated.
Other disclosures Other equipment with a combined net book value as at 30 September 2013 of 174m 2012: 163m includes 94m 2012: 101m of fixtures and fittings, 55m 2012: 42m of property, plant and equipment under construction and 23m 2012: 20m of motor vehicles.
Land and buildings comprise freehold and long leasehold properties with net book values of 116m 2012: 120m and short leasehold properties with a net book value of 50m 2012: 51m respectively.
The net book value of assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts at 30 September 2013 was 315m 2012: 224m.
This includes 89m 2012: 94m of yachts, motor boats and cruise ships, 210m 2012: 115m of aircraft, 6m 2012: 6m of land and buildings and 10m 2012: 9m of other assets, mainly vehicles.
The net book value of property, plant and equipment with restrictions on title, being pledged as security for bank loans, amounted to 161m 2012: 32m.
indd 144 13 12 2013 18:02 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 145 BuSineSS and financial review directOrS rePOrt Financial statements SharehOlder infOrmatiOn 12. investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments The Groups equity investment in its joint ventures and associates is recorded in the consolidated financial statements as follows: Share of net Share of net total assets of assets of share of joint ventures associates net assets m m m at 1 October 2011 100 142 242 Share of losses profits before amortisation, interest and tax for the year 6 22 16 Share of interest and tax charge 3 2 5 Share of amortisation for the year 1 5 6 additions 25 25 dividend paid 2 2 4 Reclassifications and other movements 1 2 3 Foreign exchange 7 7 At 30 September 2012 105 153 258 Share of profits before amortisation, interest and tax for the year 1 35 36 Share of interest and tax charge 8 7 15 Share of amortisation for the year 4 4 additions 5 27 32 disposals 5 9 14 dividends paid 12 31 43 Foreign exchange 1 6 7 at 30 september 2013 85 158 243 The Groups share of joint venture and associate profit after interest and tax was 17m 2012: 5m.
During the year, the Group received a dividend of 28m 2012: nil from Sunwing Travel Group Inc, a 25% associate of the Group, and invested 27m into Blue Diamond Hotels and Resorts Inc, a 49% associate of the Group.
Also during the year, the Group acquired the remaining 50.1% shareholding in the former associate TUI Infotec GmbH that it did not already own.
Further details of this acquisition can be found in Note 13.
The principal joint ventures and associates and the proportion of voting rights are shown below: Proportion of Country of Name of company voting rights held % Nature of business registration incorporation Joint ventures Travco Group Holding SAE 50.0 Incoming agency Egypt Le Passage to India Tours and Travels Private Limited 50.0 Incoming agency india atlantica hellas Sa 50.0 hotel operator greece atlantica hotels & resorts limited 49.9 hotel operator cyprus Togebi Holdings Limited 49.0 tour operator cyprus associates Sunwing Travel Group Inc 25.0 tour operator canada Blue diamond hotels and resorts inc 49.0 hotel operator Barbados With the exception of Sunwing Travel Group Inc, the Groups interest is in the ordinary share capital of each joint venture and associate.
In respect of Sunwing Travel Group Inc, the Group holds a 100% interest in its Class Q non voting and Class Y Non-Voting Common shares and 25% interest in its Class Z Special Voting shares.
indd 145 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 146 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12. investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments continued A summary of the Groups share of the results of its associates and joint ventures for the year ended 30 September 2013 and share of the assets and liabilities at this date is shown below: Joint Joint ventures associates total ventures associates total 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 m m m m m m Revenue 429 571 1,000 405 517 922 Operating costs 428 540 968 412 500 912 Operating profit loss 1 31 32 7 17 10 Net interest payable receivable 4 1 3 2 1 1 Loss profit before taxation 3 32 29 9 18 9 Taxation 4 8 12 1 3 4 Loss profit after taxation for the year 7 24 17 10 15 5 Non-current assets 122 183 305 129 134 263 current assets 104 154 258 111 134 245 total assets 226 337 563 240 268 508 current liabilities 72 128 200 88 105 193 Non-current liabilities 69 51 120 47 10 57 total liabilities 141 179 320 135 115 250 net assets 85 158 243 105 153 258 2012 revenues and operating costs for associates have been restated on a gross basis in order to correct the comparative years presentation of these figures.
togebi Holdings limited The Group has an agreement with S-Group Capital Management Limited SGCM, regarding Togebi Holdings Limited, a jointly-owned investment holding company, owned 51% by SGCM and 49% by the Group.
The joint venture owns four subsidiary tour operators and travel agency groups in Russia and Ukraine.
All major decisions have to be agreed by both shareholders and under IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures the entity is therefore accounted for as a joint venture.
SGCM is owned by a significant shareholder of TUI AG and is therefore considered to be a related party.
Togebi Holdings Limited and its subsidiary undertakings are therefore considered to be related parties by virtue of SGCM being the joint venturer to this investment.
Details of loan and other balances with Togebi Holdings Limited and its subsidiary undertakings are disclosed in Note 31. sunwing travel Group inc The strategic venture with Sunwing Travel Group Inc is accounted for as an associate as the Group does not control or jointly control this business.
trade NonOther investments and listed consolidated investments entities total m m m at 1 October 2011 51 21 72 Change in the fair value of available for sale financial assets through other comprehensive income 4 4 Foreign exchange 1 1 2 At 30 September 2012 46 20 66 additions 1 1 Reclassification to current asset investments 30 30 Investments consolidated for the first time 7 7 Change in the fair value of available for sale financial assets through other comprehensive income 1 1 Change in the fair value of assets held at fair value through profit and loss 5 5 at 30 september 2013 23 13 36 Other investments of 36m 2012: 66m comprise trade and listed investments and non-consolidated entities.
indd 146 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 147 BuSineSS and financial review directOrS rePOrt Financial statements SharehOlder infOrmatiOn During the year the Group revalued its 14.3% shareholding in The Airline Group Limited which in turn has a 42% shareholding in NATS Holdings Limited upwards by 5m to fair value through profit and loss with the credit being included in separately disclosed items Note 4.
The basis of valuation was the offer received during the year for the majority of this investment.
In view of the impending disposal of 87.4% of this investment, the element being disposed of has been reclassified as a current asset investment.
Further disclosure regarding the valuation of The Airline Group Limited is provided in Note 26 H. The remaining trade and listed investments at 30 September 2013 represented the Groups 4.4% 2012: 4.4% shareholding in Air Berlin PLC and a 10% 2012: 10% holding in the Atlantica Leisure Group Limited.
The Groups investment in Air Berlin PLC is carried at fair value, determined by reference to its equity share price at the balance sheet date.
Non-consolidated entities are recorded at cost and reflect the Groups net investment held in circa 50 subsidiaries which, due to the immaterial size of their revenues, result and financial position, have not been consolidated.
Balances between these entities and consolidated subsidiaries have not been eliminated.
13. Business combinations A Acquisitions in the year ended 30 September 2013 Acquisitions were made in the year for a total investment value of 30m in order to expand business operations in line with the Groups growth strategy.
In accordance with the provisions of IFRS 3 revised, incidental acquisition costs of 2m have been expensed within administrative expenses and disclosed as an acquisition related expense in the consolidated income statement in the year.
These acquisitions gave rise to provisional goodwill of 24m.
The one significant business acquired in the year was the remaining 50.1% of the voting equity shares of TUI Infotec GmbH Infotec that the Group did not already own, this business being reported as an associate in the year ended 30 September 2012. Business description date Country of incorporation TUI Infotec GmbH it Services 5 November 2012 germany Other individually insignificant businesses acquired during the year include nine European-based travel agency businesses and the entire share capital of JBS Group, Inc, Isango!
Limited and TT Visa Services Pte.
The relative size of the acquisitions made is set out in the table below: total total consideration Number of consideration goodwill m acquisitions m m 0 5 14 14 10 5 1 16 14 total 15 30 24 The total consideration for these acquisitions of 30m comprised 12m of initial cash consideration, 5m of deferred consideration, 4m of contingent consideration and 9m of non-cash consideration for the Groups share of Infotec that it previously owned.
The total provisional net assets acquired are set out below: Fair value of net assets acquired m Intangible assets 8 Property, plant and equipment 11 Deferred tax assets 5 trade receivables 25 cash 7 Current liabilities excluding debt 27 Non current liabilities including debt 7 Retirement benefits 16 total 6 total consideration 30 Less net assets acquired as above 6 total goodwill 24 All acquisitions have been accounted for using the purchase method, as required by IFRS 3 revised.
Certain non-significant fair value adjustments have necessarily been prepared on a provisional basis due to the recent timing of certain acquisitions.
Experience may result in revisions to fair values in the subsequent accounting period.
No material amount of goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
There are no material accounting policy adjustments nor any significant differences between the book and fair values of assets and liabilities acquired.
No single acquisition in the current year is considered material to goodwill and, as such, the provisional net asset table shown above has been presented as a total for all acquisitions in the year.
indd 147 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 148 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 13. Business combinations continued Residual goodwill A consistent process is undertaken for each acquisition to identify the fair value of separable assets and liabilities acquired, including the fair value of intangible assets, such as brands, order books, licences, customer relationships and other intangible assets that may exist.
The residual goodwill on acquisition represents the value of assets and earnings that do not form separable assets under IFRS 3 revised but nevertheless are expected to contribute to the future results of the Group.
Residual goodwill in respect of current year acquisitions predominantly relates to the acquisition of Infotec and represents the ability to control fully that business with a view to drive cost reduction and economies of scale in the Groups IT infrastructure.
Acquisition related expenses IFRS 3 revised requires consideration that is contingent on future service by the vendor to be expensed over the service period and acquisition costs to be expensed as incurred.
In this respect, 8m 2012: 3m has been expensed in the year and included in the acquisition related expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Year ended Year ended 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m Acquisition related expenses in operating profit Amortisation of business combination intangibles 57 59 Other acquisition related expenses 2 3 Remuneration for post-combination services 6 total 65 62 Consideration payable Movements in deferred and contingent consideration in the year were as follows: Deferred Contingent consideration consideration loan notes total m m m m at 1 October 2012 3 5 1 9 Recognised in the year relating to current year acquisitions 5 4 9 cash paid 3 2 5 at 30 september 2013 5 7 1 13 Contingent consideration payable is dependent on the results of the businesses over a number of future periods and in some cases is also dependent upon the previous owners or management of those businesses remaining in employment with the Group during the earn out period.
No adjustments to amounts recognised in respect of prior year acquisitions have been made during the year.
This follows the latest assessment of expected earnings figures for these acquired entities, with the consideration payable being based upon a multiple of the appropriate earnings figures.
An estimate of the range of undiscounted amounts of contingent consideration payable for acquisitions in the current year and in prior years, where the consideration remains payable, is listed below.
The amounts payable will be dependent on the results of the acquired businesses over the following periods: Range of consideration Basis of calculation financial year Period for calculation payable acquisition for consideration payable of acquisition of consideration m Lima Tours S. A. C. Earnings and employment 2011 Up to 30 June 2014 1-4 Mala Pronta Viagens e Turismo Ltda.
Earnings and employment 2012 Up to 31 March 2014 0-1 JBS Group, Inc Earnings and employment 2013 Up to 31 March 2015 0-3 Earnings alone and Other individually insignificant considerations payable earnings & employment 2008-2013 Up to 31 December 2015 0-2 Total range of contingent consideration payable in respect of current and prior year acquisitions 1-10 The expected contingent consideration for all acquisitions above is calculated using multiples of underlying earnings, with some amounts payable dependent upon employment.
indd 148 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 149 BuSineSS and financial review directOrS rePOrt Financial statements SharehOlder infOrmatiOn B Cash flows arising in respect of acquisitions Total cash flows relating to acquisitions in the year, including amounts paid in respect of deferred and contingent consideration arising on prior period acquisitions, are as follows: cash paid 2013 m Acquisitions in the current year excluding acquisition related expenses 12 Cash acquired with acquisitions 7 Net cash outflow in the year relating to current year acquisitions 5 Cash paid relating to prior period acquisitions 5 Net cash outflow in the year relating to acquisitions 10 Acquisition related expenses charged to the income statement 2 Total cash outflows in the year relating to acquisitions 12 c consolidated income statement If the results of the acquired businesses had been included in these consolidated financial statements from 1 October 2012 until each of their respective acquisition dates, the Groups revenue would have been approximately 7m higher.
There would have been no significant impact on the Groups results after adjusting for amortisation of business combination intangibles had those intangible assets been recognised since 1 October 2012.
Since the respective acquisition dates, the acquired businesses contributed revenues of 26m, underlying earnings of 2m and loss after tax including the amortisation of business combination intangibles of 1m.
D Prior period revisions to fair values In the year ended 30 September 2012, the Group acquired various businesses for a total consideration of 16m.
The finalisation of the acquisition balance sheets for these businesses has not led to a material adjustment to goodwill presented in the 2012 accounts and therefore there is no restatement of the results for the year ended 30 September 2012, or balance sheet as at 30 September 2012 in respect of these finalisations.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities assets liabilities net Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 september 30 September 30 september 30 September 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Intangible assets 2 7 145 147 143 140 finance lease transactions 2 2 2 2 Property, plant and equipment 86 77 28 38 58 39 financial instruments 29 19 13 14 16 5 Employee benefits 94 105 1 93 105 Other short term temporary differences 138 215 114 200 24 15 Tax value of losses carried forward 91 74 91 74 total 440 497 303 401 137 96 Set off of deferred tax within the same jurisdiction 272 372 272 372 Net deferred tax assets 168 125 31 29 137 96 The Group has recognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses in individual tax jurisdictions based on forecast future taxable profits.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items reported at the applicable tax rate : 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m capital losses 3 2 Other tax losses 267 259 total losses 270 261 These assets have not been recognised principally because the Directors are not certain of the timing of any benefits that might arise in the future.
Other tax losses are primarily trading losses and include 6m which are subject to a four year expiry period.
The balance of losses are not subject to time expiry and are available for utilisation against profits arising in future periods in the territories in which they have arisen.
There are no other unprovided deferred tax liabilities nor unrecognised deferred tax assets.
indd 149 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 150 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued Movements in deferred taxation during the current year: Credited charged Recognised to the outside of the Balance at consolidated consolidated Balance at 1 October Arising on income income Foreign 30 september 2012 acquisition statement statement exchange 2013 m m m m m m Intangible assets 140 3 143 finance lease transactions 2 2 Property, plant and equipment 39 19 58 financial instruments 5 7 22 4 16 Employee benefits 105 3 6 11 2 93 Other short term temporary differences 15 1 4 3 1 24 Tax value of losses carried forward 74 1 15 1 91 total 96 5 25 14 3 137 Movements in deferred taxation during the prior year are analysed as follows: Charged Recognised in the outside of the Balance at consolidated consolidated Balance at 1 October Arising on Extinguished income income Foreign 30 September 2011 acquisition on disposal Reclassification statement statement exchange 2012 m m m m m m m m Intangible assets 72 72 2 6 140 finance lease transactions 2 2 Property, plant and equipment 45 8 2 39 financial instruments 16 4 15 2 5 Employee benefits 88 14 32 1 105 Other short term temporary differences 57 1 72 8 3 6 15 Tax value of losses carried forward 81 4 3 74 total 67 1 4 36 50 12 96 Intangible asset temporary differences arise in respect of assets recognised on acquisition.
Property, plant and equipment temporary differences principally relate to tax depreciation in the UK, France and Germany.
Employee benefits temporary differences arise in respect of defined benefit pension scheme liabilities and future deductions available on the vesting of employee awards.
Financial instruments and foreign exchange temporary differences arise in respect of financial instruments accounted for under IAS 39 and principally reflect the fair value at 30 September 2013 of cash flow hedging derivatives that will be settled against future transactions.
Other short term temporary differences relate to operating expenses and related accruals and provisions for which a tax deduction has not yet been recognised.
15. inventories 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m marine inventories 22 28 Airline spares and operating equipment 20 19 Other operating inventories 15 14 total 57 61 Included within cost of sales in the year is a write-down of inventories by 3m 2012: 7m to net realisable value.
indd 150 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 151 BuSineSS and financial review directOrS rePOrt Financial statements SharehOlder infOrmatiOn 16. trade and other receivables 30 september 2013 30 September 2012 nonNoncurrent current total current current total assets assets assets assets assets assets m m m m m m Trade receivables, gross 497 497 548 548 Less: provision for impairment 49 49 49 49 448 448 499 499 Amounts owed by related parties Note 31 55 36 91 52 34 86 Interest bearing other receivables 7 3 10 12 12 Other receivables 189 56 245 196 56 252 699 95 794 747 102 849 Prepayments 632 110 742 565 123 688 total 1,331 205 1,536 1,312 225 1,537 Other receivables include aircraft related receivables, lease and security deposits, derivative settlement receivables and various end of season rebates due from suppliers.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for financial assets, as defined in Note 1 E i, which are included within trade and other receivables by geographic region was: 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m United Kingdom 141 191 germany 101 111 france 82 91 Other european countries 207 216 Rest of the World 91 101 total 622 710 Trade receivables are disclosed net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts, an analysis of which is shown below: 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m Balance at the beginning of the year 49 58 Charge to the consolidated income statement 15 9 Utilisation of provision 15 18 total 49 49 The ageing of the financial assets included within trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date was: 30 september 2013 30 September 2012 Gross Provision net gross Provision net m m m m m m not overdue 479 5 474 482 5 477 Overdue 1-30 days 73 1 72 136 1 135 Overdue 31-90 days 52 1 51 65 6 59 Overdue 91-180 days 13 2 11 17 6 11 Overdue more than 180 days 54 40 14 59 31 28 total 671 49 622 759 49 710 No individually material bad debt provision movements or charges have been recorded in the year.
Based on past experience and the post balance sheet period to the date of approval of these consolidated financial statements, the Group considers that the provision allowance recorded is adequate.
Within the provision there are no individually material amounts held.
Trade receivables not overdue and not impaired include amounts due from travel agencies, tour operators and hoteliers in respect of Mainstream, Specialist & Activity and Accommodation & Destinations Sectors.
Provisions for doubtful debts in respect of trade receivable balances are managed by each underlying business unit where the debts arise and are based on local management experience.
Factors considered include the age of the receivable, previous experience with the counterparty and the economic environment in which the counterparty is located.
Credit exposure to individual customers booking holidays directly is limited as full payment is required before the issue of tickets and holiday departure.
In the case of travel services sold by third party agents, the credit risk depends on the creditworthiness of those third parties, but this risk is also limited because of the relatively short period of credit.
The Directors do not consider there to be significant concentration of credit risk relating to trade and other receivables.
indd 151 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 152 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16. trade and other receivables continued Deposits and prepayments include amounts paid in advance to suppliers of hotel and other services in order to guarantee the provision of those supplies.
There is a credit risk in respect of the continued operation of those suppliers during the period over which the supplies are made.
The provision against overdue receivables of 44m 2012: 44m relates to gross receivables of 74m 2012: 78m.
There are 118m of receivables that are overdue and not impaired at 30 September 2013 2012: 199m.
Amounts owed by related parties are disclosed further in Note 31.
17. cash and cash equivalents 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m cash in hand 6 21 cash at bank 920 265 deposits 827 544 cash and cash equivalents 1,753 830 For the year ended 30 September 2013, cash and cash equivalents have been shown gross of specific overdraft balances within the Groups pooling facilities where the Group does not currently have the intention to exercise its right to settle these particular balances simultaneously.
The amount of cash balances presented gross of the related overdraft position is 491m.
In the year ended 30 September 2012, the Group had both the contractual right as well as the intention to settle these balances on a net basis and therefore the related overdraft and cash balances were presented on a net basis.
Cash and cash equivalents includes 47m 2012: 34m that is not available for immediate use by the Group.
This is made up of monies held to meet regulatory requirements, together with cash balances on short term deposits, held on a restricted basis by the Groups captive insurance funds as part of their ongoing operations.
In addition to the above restricted cash balance, the Group is involved in a long-running VAT case with the Belgian government.
During the current financial year a total of 98m has been received from the Belgian government in relation to the disputed VAT for the years up to and including 30 September 2011, to stop the interest charge from accumulating should they lose the case eventually.
The outcome of the case remains uncertain and is not expected to be finalised in the near future.
Given the uncertainty, the Group continues to accrue VAT payable on the existing basis.
If the Group were to win the legal case, the amount recovered would be subject to corporation tax in Belgium.
This money is currently held on a bank deposit account in order that a collateralised bank guarantee can be provided to the Belgian government for the duration of the legal proceedings to give them assurance that they will be paid the money back should they win the case.
This receipt is shown in the consolidated statement of cash flows as the item fulfils the IAS 7 criteria for cash and cash equivalents and therefore the balance is included in cash and cash equivalents.
In view of the guarantee provided to the Belgian government, the Groups ability to use this cash is restricted.
Other investments 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m trade investments 30 Regulatory deposits with a term exceeding 3 months 5 17 Other deposits with a term exceeding 3 months 1 2 Other investments 36 19 Trade investments of 30m 2012: nil represents the portion of the Groups shareholding in The Airline Group Limited that is in the process of being disposed.
Accordingly, the investment has been reclassified from non-current to current asset investments at the year end.
Further details of this investment have been disclosed in Notes 12 and 26.
Assets classified as held for sale 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m Yachts and motor boats 1 1 Land and buildings 5 Aircraft 5 Other 4 7 Net assets classified as held for sale 10 13 Assets held for sale are expected to be sold within 12 months.
Further disclosure of assets being classified as held for sale within the year is included in Note 11.
indd 152 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 153 BuSineSS and financial review directOrS rePOrt Financial statements SharehOlder infOrmatiOn 20. interest-bearing loans and borrowings 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m current liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 528 6 Finance leases and hire purchase contracts 22 23 Other financial liabilities 44 41 total 594 70 For the year ended 30 September 2013, bank overdrafts have been shown gross of specific cash balances within the Groups pooling facilities where the Group does not currently have the intention to exercise its right to settle these particular balances simultaneously.
The amount of bank overdrafts presented gross of the related cash position is 491m.
Other financial liabilities mainly comprise the fair value of two put options written by the Group to the sole remaining non-controlling interest shareholder in LTUR Tourismus AG that may require the Group to purchase the non-controlling interest shareholding totalling 30%.
The first put option over 20% of the shares may be exercised at any time until 2015.
A second put option written by the Group to the same non-controlling interest shareholder for the remaining 10% shareholding has no time limit.
Details of the fair value of these options are included in Note 26 H. Fair value changes in the put option liability are included within financial expenses or financial income.
30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m non-current liabilities Amounts owed to related parties 10 Bank loans 61 17 loan notes 1 1 Finance leases and hire purchase contracts 253 163 convertible bonds 697 675 Other financial liabilities 2 total 1,012 868 The bank loans and loan notes are repayable: 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m within one year 37 6 Between one and five years 62 18 total 99 24 Certain loans are secured on the underlying assets of the company in whose name the borrowings are made, including all finance leases which are secured against their respective underlying assets.
Details of amounts owed to related parties are included in Note 31.
Finance lease liabilities relate primarily to the leasing of aircraft, boats, cruise ships and equipment.
The increase in amounts due after five years is driven by four aircraft 2012: three aircraft acquired in the year.
These are treated as finance leases based on the terms of the leases, which include purchase options.
Group obligations under finance leases and hire purchase contracts are payable as follows: minimum lease payments 30 september 30 September Principal interest 2013 Principal interest 2012 m m m m m m In respect of aircraft, boats, cruise ships and equipment payable within: One year 22 11 33 23 6 29 One to five years 83 38 121 66 25 91 After five years 170 34 204 97 16 113 total 275 83 358 186 47 233 convertible bonds 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m 350m convertible bond 6.0% October 2014 336 326 400m convertible bond 4.9% April 2017 361 349 total 697 675 22 Financial XNoteX12XXX23Xincl v75 copy.
indd 153 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 154 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20. interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued The Group has two convertible bonds in issue, details of which are as follows: A 350m fixed rate 6% bond was issued in October 2009 raising 341m net of issue costs.
The bond is convertible at the option of the holder, before or upon maturity in October 2014.
Conversion into ordinary shares will occur at a premium of 33% to the Groups share price on the date of issuance.
A 400m fixed rate 4.9% bond was issued in April 2010 raising 391m net of issue costs.
The bond is convertible at the option of the holder, before or upon maturity in April 2017.
The Group holds an Issuer call option to redeem the convertible bonds at their principal amounts, together with accrued interest, upon fulfilment of certain pre-determined criteria.
The fair value of this option was negligible at 30 September 2013.
The equity portion of the bonds of 114m 2012: 114m, gross of deferred tax of 23m 2012: 26m, is included in the convertible bond reserve.
Reconciliation of face value to carrying amount 350m 400m total convertible convertible convertible bond bond bonds m m m Convertible bond face value 350 400 750 issue cost 9 9 18 cash received 341 391 732 equity portion 48 66 114 interest accretion in prior years 27 22 49 issue costs amortised in prior years 6 2 8 Carrying amount at 30 September 2012 326 349 675 interest accretion 9 10 19 Amortisation of issue costs 1 2 3 Carrying amount at 30 September 2013 336 361 697 21.
Current trade and other payables 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m trade payables 931 1,058 Deferred and contingent consideration Note 13 A 4 4 Other payables 177 105 Amounts owed to related parties Note 31 97 94 Other taxes and social security costs 87 98 Accruals and deferred income 1,709 1,521 client money received in advance 1,768 1,669 total 4,773 4,549 Further disclosure of amounts owed to related parties is included in Note 31.
Provisions for liabilities Aircraft maintenance Restructuring Other total m m m m at 1 October 2012 398 63 155 616 Provided in the year 141 32 118 291 released in the year 10 3 8 21 Unwinding of discounted amount Note 5 4 1 5 costs incurred 174 49 34 257 Reclassification 1 6 7 Foreign exchange 6 3 3 12 at 30 september 2013 365 45 229 639 Analysed as: Non-current 266 96 362 current 99 45 133 277 365 45 229 639 At 30 September 2012 Analysed as: Non-current 235 2 79 316 current 163 61 76 300 398 63 155 616 22 Financial XNoteX12XXX23Xincl v75 copy.
indd 154 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 155 BuSineSS and financial review directOrS rePOrt Financial statements SharehOlder infOrmatiOn Aircraft maintenance In respect of aircraft, provision is made for maintenance, overhaul and repair costs of operating leased airframes, engines and certain other components based on the anticipated external costs of the next maintenance event calculated by reference to costs experienced and published manufacturers data.
The charge to the consolidated income statement is calculated by reference to the number of hours and cycles flown and by reference to the length of the full overhaul cycle.
Costs incurred are charged against the provision.
Neither the timing nor the value of the expenditure can be precisely determined but they can be averaged over time and over the number of aircraft in the fleet.
The provision is expected to be utilised within 12 years of the balance sheet date depending upon the timing of maintenance events or end of lease dates where compensation is payable.
Restructuring Restructuring, which includes severance payments, relates to provisions arising as a result of reorganisation and restructuring plans that are irrevocably committed.
Further details of significant restructuring projects in the current year are set out in Note 4.
The provision is expected to be utilised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Other Other provisions relate to litigation, obligations under denied boarding compensation regulations, onerous lease contracts that have been entered into in the ordinary course of business and other future obligations, the amount or timing of which is uncertain.
A significant portion of the provision is anticipated to be utilised within 12 months of the balance sheet date, while the remainder is expected to be utilised within one to four years of the balance sheet date, although the timing and payments related to individual litigation claims are estimated and are inherently uncertain.
The Group has a policy to mitigate the financial risk of litigation and disaster through insurance with third party providers and the use of captive insurance companies.
The Groups exposure to risk is capped by single event and aggregate limits, with insurance in place for exposures above these limits.
The Group provides for outstanding claims, including settlement expenses, using a consistent methodology based upon historical claims patterns, average claims amounts, external legal advice and future expectations.
Non-current trade and other payables 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m Deferred and contingent consideration Note 13 A 8 4 Other payables 37 28 Amounts owed to related parties Note 31 1 1 Accruals and deferred income 25 13 client money received in advance 8 2 total 79 48 24. called up share capital 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m Issued and fully paid 1,118,010,670 2012: 1,118,010,670 ordinary shares of 10p each 112 112 total 112 112 As described more fully in Note 36, the ultimate parent company, TUI AG, is the beneficial owner of 54.48% 2012: 56.26% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 September 2013.
At 30 September 2013, 8,047,575 shares 2012: 9,545,591 shares were held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trust.
Details of dividends debited to equity in the year are set out in Note 9.
Whilst the Company has the authority to purchase its own shares, it has not done so in either the current or prior years.
indd 155 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 156 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Capital and reserves Other reserves Convertible Equity NonCalled up bond Merger Translation Hedging Accumulated holders controlling Total share capital reserve reserve reserve reserve losses of parent interests equity Note m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 October 2011 112 85 2,523 286 37 1,155 1,888 50 1,938 Profit for the year 138 138 1 137 Other comprehensive loss income for the year Foreign exchange translation 157 5 4 158 2 160 Actuarial losses 6 C 172 172 172 Tax on actuarial losses 8 iii 32 32 32 Cash flow hedges: movement in fair value 26 J 42 42 42 amounts recycled to the consolidated income statement 26 J 30 30 30 Tax on cash flow hedges 8 iii 15 15 15 Available for sale financial assets: movement in fair value 12 4 4 4 amounts recycled to the consolidated income statement 10 10 10 Other comprehensive loss for the year 157 62 130 349 2 351 Total comprehensive loss income for the year 157 62 8 211 3 214 Transactions with owners Share-based payment charge for the year 16 16 16 Share-based payment disposal on award of shares 5 5 5 Dividends 9 125 125 3 128 Acquisition of non-controlling interest 1 1 1 Change in deferred tax rate on equity portion of convertible bond 3 3 3 At 30 September 2012 112 88 2,523 129 25 1,262 1,565 44 1,609 23 Financial XNoteX24XXX30Xincl v74 copy.
indd 156 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STrATEgiC rEPOrT 157 BuSiNESS AND FiNANCiAl rEviEw DirECTOrS rEPOrT FinAnCiAl STATemenTS SHArEHOlDEr iNFOrMATiON Other reserves Convertible Equity NonCalled up bond Merger Translation Hedging Accumulated holders controlling Total share capital reserve reserve reserve reserve losses of parent interests equity Note m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 October 2012 112 88 2,523 129 25 1,262 1,565 44 1,609 Profit for the year 60 60 3 63 Other comprehensive income loss for the year Foreign exchange translation 56 1 10 47 4 43 Actuarial losses 6 C 23 23 23 Tax on actuarial losses 8 iii 11 11 11 Cash flow hedges: movement in fair value 26 J 76 76 76 amounts recycled to the consolidated income statement 26 J 5 5 5 Tax on cash flow hedges 8 iii 22 22 22 Available for sale financial assets: movement in fair value 12 1 1 1 Other comprehensive income loss for the year 56 58 43 45 4 49 Total comprehensive income loss for the year 56 58 17 15 1 14 Transactions with owners Share-based payment charge for the year 15 15 15 Share-based payment disposal on award of shares 16 16 16 Dividends 9 130 130 2 132 Acquisition of non-controlling interest 2 2 2 Change in deferred tax rate on equity portion of convertible bond 3 3 3 At 30 September 2013 112 91 2,523 185 83 1,378 1,450 41 1,491 Convertible bond reserve The convertible bond reserve comprises the equity element of the convertible bonds and the related portion of the bonds issue costs see Note 20.
The equity element is calculated in accordance with the accounting policy described in Note 1 E ii and is presented net of deferred tax.
Other reserves Details of dividends to equity holders of the Parent Company which have been debited to equity in the year are set out in Note 9.
Exchange gains or losses arising on the translation to the groups reporting currency are recorded in the translation reserve.
The hedging reserve records the portion of the cumulative gains or losses on hedging instruments in cash flow hedges that are determined as effective.
Gains or losses arising on cash flow hedges are initially recorded in the hedge reserve and are recycled to the consolidated income statement in accordance with the accounting policy in Note 1 F. The Group also has a non-distributable capital reserve of 0.1m at 30 September 2013 2012: 0.1m.
indd 157 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 158 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial instruments A Treasury risk overview The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks: Market risk in respect of foreign currency rate risk, jet fuel price risk and interest rate risk : Liquidity risk in respect of the Groups ability to meet its liabilities : Credit risk in respect of recovery of amounts owing to the Group : and Capital risk in respect of its capital structure and cost of capital.
The Groups key financial market risks are in relation to foreign currency rates and jet fuel prices.
Currency risk results from the substantial cross-border element of the Groups trading and arises on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies of individual Group businesses.
The risk is managed by the use of foreign exchange forward, swap and option contracts.
The Groups exposure to jet fuel prices results from the aircraft fleet operations and is managed using commodity swaps and options.
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk that arises principally from the Groups floating rate aircraft leases and floating rate bank loans and cash balances.
Certain finance leases and loans have fixed interest rates.
Credit risk and liquidity risk are considered in Notes 26 D and 26 F respectively.
Capital management, including capital risk and cash conversion, is considered in Notes 34 and 27 B respectively.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework and for ensuring that the Group has adequate policies, procedures and controls to successfully manage the financial risks that it faces.
These form part of the Groups overall Risk Management Framework the framework.
Incorporated within the frameworks terms of reference are the determination of all treasury policies and the monitoring of the effectiveness of those policies.
group Treasury implements the agreed policies on a day-to-day basis.
The procedures also stipulate the levels of authority applied to approving and to dealing the types of hedging financial instrument used to manage these exposures.
Transactions are only undertaken to hedge underlying exposures.
Financial instruments are not traded, nor are speculative positions taken.
The treasury position of the Group, including liquidity, foreign exchange and fuel hedging exposure, is managed centrally in accordance with policies appropriate to cover specific risks faced by each business unit and is the responsibility of the Chief Financial Officer and Group Treasurer.
Group Treasury conducts regular reviews of financial risks with business unit management teams and receives regular cash flow forecasts and, where relevant, jet fuel usage forecasts from each business unit to ensure hedging instruments match the currency or fuel requirements of each operating business.
Reports and forecasts for the Group, showing hedging instruments and forecast requirements, are submitted monthly to the gMB and to each Board meeting of Tui Travel PlC.
In line with its established policy, the Group has monitored throughout the year its counterparty exposure with individual financial institutions.
Such counterparty risk can arise by way of cash deposited or derivative instruments traded.
B Currency risk management The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currencies of individual Group businesses which are principally Sterling, US Dollar, Euro and Swedish Krona.
The Group hedges its foreign currency exposures on a seasonal basis, that is Winter and Summer, with each season comprising a six-month period.
At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its foreign currency exposure forecast sales and purchases and related assets and liabilities for that season, using predominantly forward exchange contracts and option based instruments, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, the Group ensures that its net exposure is kept to an acceptable level, principally by using forward contracts in respect of non-Sterling denominated airline maintenance provision balances, loan balances and deposits.
The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in Sterling and, as a result, it is also subject to foreign currency exchange translation risk in respect of the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations into Sterling.
The following significant exchange rates to the Groups Sterling presentation currency excluding the impact of hedged transactions are illustrative of the rates applied during the current and prior year: Average rate Mid spot rate Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 1 gBP equivalent 2013 2012 2013 2012 uS Dollar 1.561 1.589 1.615 1.620 Euro 1.190 1.203 1.196 1.253 Swedish Krona 10.225 10.635 10.355 10.588 As at 30 September 2013, the Group has hedged forecast transactions for $4.3bn 2012: $4.1bn and 1.3bn 2012: 1.8bn for periods up until winter 2014 principally relating to winter 2013 and Summer 2014.
indd 158 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STrATEgiC rEPOrT 159 BuSiNESS AND FiNANCiAl rEviEw DirECTOrS rEPOrT FinAnCiAl STATemenTS SHArEHOlDEr iNFOrMATiON C Commodity risk Fuel commodity risk arises from the Groups operation of aircraft.
The Group hedges its fuel commodity exposures on a seasonal basis, being Winter and Summer, with each season comprising a six-month period.
At the start of a season the Group will have hedged substantially all of its fuel commodity exposure for that season, using predominantly commodity swaps or options, most with a maturity of less than one year from the reporting date.
As at 30 September 2013, the Group has hedged transactions for fuel of 1.7m metric tonnes 2012: 2.0m metric tonnes for periods up until winter 2014.
Details of fuel forward derivative instruments are set out in Note 26 I.
D Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Credit risk arises from cash balances including bank deposits and cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables, financial guarantees and committed transactions.
Credit risk is managed separately for treasury and operating related credit exposures.
The Group minimises its financial credit risk through the application of risk management policies approved and monitored by the Board.
While counterparties are limited to major banks and financial institutions, Group policy ensures that individual counterparty limits are adhered to and that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The only exception to this at 30 September 2013 was the 98m received from the Belgian government in relation to the long running VAT case Note 17.
This money is currently deposited with one financial institution to enable a collateralised bank guarantee to be provided to the Belgian government.
The Group monitors the credit ratings of its counterparties where applicable as part of its ongoing assessment of its credit exposure.
Material financial instruments are only transacted with major financial institutions with a strong credit rating of A1 P1 or A2 P2.
Loans and other receivables exposures are managed locally in the operating units where they arise and credit limits are set as deemed appropriate for the customer.
There is no material concentration of credit risk with respect to trade and other receivables as the Group has a large number of internationally dispersed customers.
The maximum credit exposure to the carrying amount of financial assets at the balance sheet date is shown in the table below.
Carrying value Carrying value 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Trade and other receivables Note 16 622 710 Cash and cash equivalents Note 17 1,753 830 Derivatives contracts used for hedging Note 26 i 44 119 Trade and listed investments Note 12 23 46 Other investments Note 18 36 19 Total 2,478 1,724 The maximum exposure to credit risk for total trade and other receivables at the balance sheet date and by geographic region as well as their ageing is disclosed in Note 16.
Trade and other receivables are shown net of provision for bad and doubtful debts of 49m 2012: 49m.
Cash, cash equivalents and other investments principally comprise money market deposits and other short term investments.
The investments are predominantly with counterparties with a strong credit rating of A1 P1 or A2 P2.
At 30 September 2013, approximately 42% 2012: 27% of the Groups unrestricted cash and cash equivalents were invested with counterparties based in the United Kingdom, and 38% 2012: 53% were based with counterparties based in the Republic of Ireland.
Trade and other receivables exclude prepaid accommodation and other prepayments which do not meet the definition of a financial instrument.
Prepayments for hotel accommodation, whilst not meeting the definition of a financial asset under IAS 39, give rise to a risk similar to credit risk due to the inherent risk of the Group not recovering the prepayment through full delivery of the related goods and services.
From time to time prepayments can concentrate risk with specific counterparties which are based overseas.
The carrying amount of prepayments which are presented within current and non-current assets forms their maximum credit exposure, before taking into account any security or collateral held by the group.
where appropriate, the group obtains security collateral over the related accommodation property to mitigate credit risk.
At 30 September 2013, prepaid accommodation which is recoverable after more than one year was 108m 2012: 122m.
indd 159 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 160 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial instruments continued E Interest rate risk The Group manages interest rate risk by fixing interest rates for the majority of the Groups longer term debt.
Variable interest generally applies to shorter term debt and that which fluctuates with working capital flows.
Variable rate interest on pooled bank overdrafts is offset by similar credit interest on cash held elsewhere in the currency pools.
The Group has exposure to interest rate risk arising principally on Sterling, US Dollar, and Euro floating interest rates that are attached to the Groups floating rate aircraft leases and floating rate bank loans and cash balances.
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss.
The Groups loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost with the exception of the other financial liabilities which are carried at fair value as follows: Carrying Carrying amount amount 30 September 30 September Nominal 2013 2012 Financial instrument Currency interest rate Year of maturity m m Convertible bonds Note 20 Sterling 4.9% 6.0% 2014 2017 697 675 Secured bank loans Sterling 1.2% 3.2% 2013 2018 19 18 EUR 1.9% 5.0% 2013 2027 16 2 USD 4.0% 4.8% 2014 2024 60 Unsecured bank loans EUR 2.6% 3.9% 2013 2016 3 3 98 23 Finance leases EUR 1.3 8.4% 2013 2046 74 80 USD 4.5% 9.0% 2013 2022 198 101 MAD 5.9% 6.5% 2014 2017 2 2 AUD 7.2% 11.8% 2013 2015 1 3 275 186 Loan notes USD 6.5% 2016 1 1 Amounts owed to related parties USD 5.9% 10 Other financial liabilities EUR 0% 5.0% 2013 2014 44 43 Bank overdrafts EUR 0.5% On demand 491 Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,606 938 Analysed between: Fixed rate instruments 1,057 817 Variable rate instruments 549 121 1,606 938 The interest rate applicable to bank overdrafts above is the amount charged in respect of the balance shown.
Any balances offsetting this in the Groups pooling arrangements are credited at a similar rate to the entities concerned.
F Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach is to ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed circumstances.
The Groups liquidity peaks in July and August, during the European summer holiday season, with the liquidity low point being in December and January.
To manage the liquidity position the Group is able to draw cash advances under its existing bank facilities which, at 30 September 2013, principally comprised the following main sources of long term debt funding: The external bank revolving credit facilities totalling 1,120m 2012: 970m plus bonding and letter of credit facilities totalling 185m 2012: 185m which all mature in June 2015.
From these facilities, 136m has been utilised for letter of credit purposes at 30 September 2013 2012: 162m : A 350m convertible bond due October 2014 issued in October 2009: A 400m convertible bond due April 2017 issued in April 2010: and A 300m bank syndicated facility which matures in April 2016 and which is only available in the event of a requirement to redeem the Groups convertible bonds.
The external bank revolving credit facility is used to manage the seasonality of the Groups cash flows and liquidity.
Cash positions, liquidity and available facility headroom are monitored daily by the Group Treasury Department.
The Board remains satisfied with the Groups funding and liquidity position.
Fixed charges cover and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, which the Board believes to be the most useful measures of cash generation and gearing, as well as being the main basis for covenants in the external credit facilities, were met at the year end and throughout the year.
Fixed charges cover is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and operating lease rentals charge EBITDAR divided by net interest plus operating lease rentals.
EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Both covenants are measured on an underlying basis as defined in Note 1 B ii.
In respect of the delivery of new aircraft, the Groups established strategy is to refinance new aircraft in advance of their delivery dates and therefore the Group does not forecast to use internal cash resources for new aircraft purchases.
Details of aircraft purchase commitments at the year end are given in Note 29.
indd 160 13 12 2013 18:31 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STrATEgiC rEPOrT 161 BuSiNESS AND FiNANCiAl rEviEw DirECTOrS rEPOrT FinAnCiAl STATemenTS SHArEHOlDEr iNFOrMATiON The following are the undiscounted contractual cash flows of financial liabilities, including interest payments calculated using interest rates in force at each balance sheet date: Between Between Carrying Contractual within one and two and More than amount cash flows one year two years five years five years 30 September 2013 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Convertible bonds 697 860 41 380 439 Bank overdrafts 491 491 491 Secured bank loans 95 115 37 10 25 43 Unsecured bank loans 3 3 2 1 Finance leases 275 358 33 36 85 204 loan notes 1 1 1 Other financial liabilities 44 44 44 Trade and other payables 2,733 2,733 2,687 46 Derivative financial liabilities Contracts used for hedging 173 168 149 19 Total 4,512 4,773 3,484 492 550 247 Between Between Carrying Contractual within one and two and More than amount cash flows one year two years five years five years 30 September 2012 m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Convertible bonds 675 901 41 41 819 Secured bank loans 20 21 4 12 5 Unsecured bank loans 3 4 4 Finance leases 186 233 29 23 68 113 loan notes 1 1 1 related parties 10 11 11 Other financial liabilities 43 44 44 Trade and other payables 2,618 2,618 2,581 37 Derivative financial liabilities Contracts used for hedging 145 138 125 13 Total 3,701 3,971 2,824 130 904 113 The timing reflected in the tables above is based on the first date that the Group can be contractually required to settle the liability.
In respect of revolving credit facilities, the timing of repayments will vary.
Trade and other payables exclude customers monies received in advance, deferred income, contingent consideration and other non-contractual payables.
At 30 September 2013, the Group had available undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 1,192m 2012: 1,018m, comprising letters of credit, guarantees and revolving, floating rate credit facilities for cash borrowings.
Any non-compliance with covenants underlying the Groups financing arrangements could, if not waived, constitute an event of default with respect to any such arrangements.
The Group was in full compliance with its financial covenants throughout both years.
Undrawn facilities are analysed as follows: 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Expiring: In more than one year but less than five years 1,192 1,018 23 Financial XNoteX24XXX30Xincl v74 copy.
indd 161 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 162 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial instruments continued G Analysis of total financial assets and financial liabilities The tables below set out the Groups IAS 39 classification for each of its financial assets and liabilities: Financial Derivative assets and financial liabilities at fair instruments Financial value through used in hedge Available for sale loans and liabilities at Total profit and loss accounting financial assets receivables amortised cost carrying value At 30 September 2013 m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,753 1,753 Borrowings due within one year 41 553 594 Borrowings due after more than one year 1,012 1,012 Derivative assets 2 42 44 Derivative liabilities 26 147 173 Other financial assets 35 18 628 681 Other financial liabilities 7 2,726 2,733 Total 37 105 18 2,381 4,291 2,034 Financial Derivative assets and financial liabilities at fair instruments Financial value through used in hedge Available for sale loans and liabilities at Total profit and loss accounting financial assets receivables amortised cost carrying value At 30 September 2012 m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 830 830 Borrowings due within one year 38 32 70 Borrowings due after more than one year 868 868 Derivative assets 17 102 119 Derivative liabilities 21 124 145 Other financial assets 30 16 729 775 Other financial liabilities 3 2,615 2,618 Total 15 22 16 1,559 3,515 1,977 Other financial assets comprise trade receivables, other receivables and other investments which are receivable within and after more than one year.
Other financial liabilities comprise trade payables, accruals and other financial liabilities which are payable within and after more than one year.
Interest payable on financial instruments carried at amortised cost mainly comprising convertible bonds, bank loans and finance lease liabilities is disclosed in Note 5.
Derivatives presented under held for trading under IAS 39 classifications are analysed in Note 26 I between cash flow hedges and derivatives not hedge accounted.
Further information in relation to changes in other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are shown in Note 12.
indd 162 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STrATEgiC rEPOrT 163 BuSiNESS AND FiNANCiAl rEviEw DirECTOrS rEPOrT FinAnCiAl STATemenTS SHArEHOlDEr iNFOrMATiON H Fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with carrying amounts shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 30 September 2013 and at 30 September 2012, are as follows: 30 September 2013 30 September 2012 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 1,753 1,753 830 830 Borrowings Convertible bond 697 883 675 750 Bank loans and overdrafts 589 589 23 23 loan notes 1 1 1 1 Finance lease liabilities 275 280 186 191 Other financial liabilities 44 44 43 43 Amounts owed to related parties 10 10 Derivative financial instruments Forward exchange contracts used for hedging assets 36 36 75 75 liabilities 148 148 129 129 Commodity contracts used for hedging assets 8 8 44 44 liabilities 25 25 16 16 Other financial assets Trade and other receivables 622 622 710 710 Trade and listed investments 23 23 46 46 Other investments 36 36 19 19 Other financial liabilities Current trade and other payables 2,687 2,687 2,581 2,581 Non-current trade and other payables 46 46 37 37 Total 2,034 2,225 1,977 2,057 The basis for fair value measurement of financial assets and liabilities is set out in Note 1 W. Fair value measurements IFRS 7 requires enhanced disclosures about fair value measurements of financial instruments through the use of a three level fair value hierarchy that prioritises the valuation techniques used in fair value calculations.
The levels can be broadly described as follows: Level 1 use of unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 use of observable inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets Level 3 use of inputs not based on observable market data but reflecting managements own assumptions about pricing the asset or liability.
The group maintains policies and procedures to value instruments using the most relevant data available.
if there are multiple inputs available that fall into different levels of the hierarchy, the instrument is categorised on the basis of the lowest level input.
indd 163 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 164 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial instruments continued The Groups financial assets and liabilities, excluding finance lease liabilities, measured at fair value at 30 September 2013 are categorised as follows: Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value At 30 September 2013 m m m m assets Trade, listed and other investments 11 42 53 Derivative financial instruments 44 44 Total assets 11 44 42 97 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 173 173 Other financial liabilities 48 48 Total liabilities 173 48 221 Total 11 129 6 124 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fair value At 30 September 2012 m m m m assets Trade, listed and other investments 10 36 46 Derivative financial instruments 119 119 Total assets 10 119 36 165 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments 145 145 Other financial liabilities 41 41 Total liabilities 145 41 186 Total 10 26 5 21 The movements in level 3 instruments, measured on a recurring basis, for the year ended 30 September 2013 are as follows: Trade Other Total and other financial level 3 investments liabilities instruments m m m At 1 October 2011 37 43 6 Cash settlement of contingent consideration 3 3 Adjustment of deferred consideration through goodwill 2 2 Foreign exchange recognised in other comprehensive income 1 1 At 1 October 2012 36 41 5 Cash settlement of contingent consideration 2 2 Purchase of trade investment 1 1 Increase in value of trade investment 5 5 Charged to income statement 6 6 Foreign exchange recognised in other comprehensive income 3 3 at 30 September 2013 42 48 6 Trade and listed investments As at 30 September 2013, 42m 2012: 36m of trade and other investments were categorised as level 3 instruments.
These consist of the Groups 35m 2012: 30m investment in The Airline Group Limited and other trade investments in the equity of unlisted companies of 7m 2012: 6m.
Of the 35m in respect of The Airline Group Limited, 30m 2012: nil is disclosed as an other investment in current assets Note 18 and 5m 2012: 30m is disclosed as an other investment in non current assets Note 12.
The Groups investment in The Airline Group Limited is valued using the offer received during 2013 for the majority of the investment, the conditional disposal for which was agreed post year end and announced on 19 November 2013.
In the absence of any robust market valuation, in 2012, the investment was valued by a third party using a discounted cash flow methodology.
The key assumptions included estimates of future operating results and the level of future contributions to its pension schemes, the latter of which was a key uncertainty in the valuation.
The level 1 trade investment mainly consists of the Groups holding in Air Berlin PLC.
See Note 12 for further details of this investment.
Derivative assets and liabilities Derivatives are valued in the market using discounted cash flow techniques.
These techniques incorporate inputs at level 2, such as interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
These market inputs are used in the discounted cash flow calculation incorporating the instruments term, notional amount, volatility, discount rate and taking credit risk into account.
As significant inputs to the valuation are observable in external markets, these instruments are categorised as level 2 in the hierarchy.
indd 164 13 12 2013 18:31 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 165 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEw DIRECTORS REPORT FInanCIaL STaTEmEnTS ShAREhOLDER INFORMATION Other financial liabilities The principal element of the put options to acquire the remaining equity stake in LTUR Tourismus AG 38m 2012: 38m are classified as an other financial liability with changes in fair value included in operating profit.
They have been valued using the minimum price stipulated in the contracts plus adjustments based on estimated operating results in the three years preceding any exercise of the options.
Contingent consideration of 7m is also measured at fair value based on the relevant contracts.
There are no reasonably possible changes in assumptions which would materially alter the value of these level 3 financial instruments.
I Derivative instruments At the balance sheet date the fair value of the Groups derivative financial assets and liabilities was as follows: 30 September 2013 30 September 2012 assets Liabilities Total Assets Liabilities Total Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value Fair value m m m m m m Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange forwards 34 122 88 58 108 50 Commodity options 1 1 5 2 3 Commodity swaps 8 24 16 39 14 25 42 147 105 102 124 22 Derivatives not hedge accounted Foreign exchange forwards 2 26 24 17 21 4 Total 44 173 129 119 145 26 Analysed as: Current 41 147 106 98 125 27 Non-current 3 26 23 21 20 1 Total 44 173 129 119 145 26 The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives are expected to occur.
Future cash flows have been estimated based on spot rates and prices at 30 September 2013 and have been shown net for each instrument.
Projected cash flows Between Between Less than one and two and Over one year two years five years five years 30 September 2013 m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign exchange forwards 47 3 Commodity swaps 11 5 1 58 8 1 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forwards 142 19 Commodity swaps 7 149 19 Total 91 11 1 Projected cash flows Between Between Less than one and two and Over one year two years five years five years 30 September 2012 m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign exchange forwards 72 6 Commodity swaps 50 19 1 Commodity options 3 125 25 1 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign exchange forwards 121 13 Commodity swaps 4 125 13 Total 12 1 Ineffectiveness Ineffectiveness in respect of cash flow hedges has been recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year.
Ineffectiveness for the year ended 30 September 2013 comprised a debit of 3m 2012: 3m credit relating to fuel hedging and this is included within cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
In respect of foreign exchange hedging ineffectiveness, this comprised a credit of 1m 2012: 2m debit which is included in cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
indd 165 13 12 2013 18:31 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 166 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Financial instruments continued J Amounts recognised in equity The following amounts have been recognised in equity during the year: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Hedging reserve Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedging instruments 76 42 Fair value of cash flow hedges recycled to the consolidated income statement 5 30 81 72 Deferred tax on the above items recognised outside of the consolidated income statement is shown in Note 8 iii.
K Sensitivity analysis This sensitivity analysis is for illustrative purposes only and should not be considered a projection of likely future events and gains or losses.
This sensitivity analysis includes the following assumptions: changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense of variable financial instruments: changes in market interest rates only affect interest income or expense in relation to financial instruments with fixed interest rates if these are recognised at fair value: changes in market interest, currency and fuel rates affect the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedging instruments and the majority of hedges are expected to be highly effective: and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets or liabilities are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year end.
The Group has used a sensitivity analysis technique that measures the estimated change to the consolidated income statement and equity of a 1% 100 basis points difference in market interest rates or a 10% strengthening or weakening in Sterling against all other currencies and in fuel prices, from the rates applicable at the balance sheet date, with all other variables remaining constant, these being considered to be reasonably possible changes to interest rates, Sterling rates and fuel prices.
interest rate risk Under the above assumptions, a 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in a less than 1m increase in interest expense in the consolidated income statement and equity 2012: increase of 3m.
A 100 basis points reduction in interest rates is not considered reasonably possible.
Currency risk The group hedges substantially all of its foreign currency exposures not denominated in the functional currency of individual group companies.
This mitigates the sensitivity impact of fluctuations in the underlying exchange rates.
The vast majority of hedging instruments used by the Group qualify for hedge accounting with the fair value movements booked to equity.
However, the Group uses structured foreign exchange instruments to hedge a small proportion of its Euro and US Dollar requirements.
As these contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, the fair value movements are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
A 10% strengthening or weakening of Sterling against the Euro and US Dollar on these instruments would have reduced profit before tax by 21m or increased it by 21m respectively.
Similarly, under the above assumptions, a 10% strengthening or weakening of Sterling against all principal exchange rates would have reduced profit before tax by 16m 2012: reduced profit before tax by 5m or increased it by 18m 2012: increased profit before tax by 6m respectively.
Equity before tax would have decreased by 226m 2012: 207m or increased by 276m 2012: 253m respectively.
Fuel price risk The sensitivity analysis is based on a 10% increase or decrease in fuel prices and the sensitivity will differ correspondingly if the fuel markets are more or less volatile.
Under these assumptions, with a 10% increase or decrease in the unit price of fuel, profit before tax would neither increase nor decrease materially, because of the fuel price hedging policy and appropriate pricing adjustments.
Equity before tax would increase by 97m 2012: 110m, or decrease by 96m 2012: 109m respectively.
indd 166 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STrATEgiC rEPOrT 167 BuSiNESS AND FiNANCiAl rEviEw DirECTOrS rEPOrT FinAnCiAl STATemenTS SHArEHOlDEr iNFOrMATiON 27. movements in cash and net debt and cash conversion A movements in cash and net debt Cash Amounts due Other and cash Convertible to related Bank loans & loan Finance financial restricted Available net equivalents bonds parties overdrafts notes leases liabilities Total cash debt cash m m m m m m m m m m At 1 October 2011 902 654 36 30 1 132 45 4 46 42 Cash movement 17 23 5 19 1 65 12 77 Non-cash movement 21 83 3 107 107 Foreign exchange 89 3 2 10 4 70 70 At 30 September 2012 830 675 10 23 1 186 43 108 34 142 Cash movement 390 1 41 26 2 378 111 267 Non-cash movement 491 22 9 524 113 1 160 160 Foreign exchange 42 1 2 2 37 37 At 30 September 2013 1,753 697 589 1 275 44 147 145 2 As set out in Note 17, cash and cash equivalents included 145m 2012: 34m of restricted cash.
The 2013 non-cash movement of 22m 2012: 21m in convertible bonds primarily relates to the accretion of the equity portion of the convertible bonds.
The 2013 non-cash movement of 491m 2012: nil between cash and cash equivalents and bank loans and overdrafts reflects the impact of specific overdraft balances being presented on a gross basis.
Further details are provided in Notes 17 and 20.
Other non-cash movements in 2013 within bank loans and overdrafts and finance leases predominantly relate to advances in respect of additions to property, plant and equipment.
B Cash conversion non-GAAP measure The Group targets conversion of underlying profit before tax to free cash flow of at least 70%.
Underlying as a measure of operating profit is defined in Note 1 B ii.
Free cash flow is defined as the movement in available cash net of debt during the year before restricted cash, dividend payments, acquisitions and business disposal proceeds, net of pre-delivery payments for aircraft and acquisitions of shares for share-based payments.
Calculations for the current and prior year are: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 Note m m Underlying operating profit Consolidated income statement 589 490 Net financial expense 5 116 100 Underlying profit before tax 473 390 Movement in available cash net of debt 27 A 267 77 Add: Dividends paid to ordinary and non-controlling interests Consolidated statement of cash flows 132 128 Acquisition of subsidiaries net of cash acquired Consolidated statement of cash flows 10 23 Investment in joint ventures, associates and other investments 14 25 Net pre-delivery payments for aircraft 11 4 53 Proceeds from other investments Consolidated statement of cash flows 1 Free cash flow 427 305 Cash conversion 90% 78% The 2012 figures have been restated to exclude: i contractually required net pre-delivery payments for aircraft: and ii restricted cash from the movement in available cash as management considers this to be a better measure of performance in respect of free cash flows.
Investments in joint ventures, associates and other investments of 14m 2012: 25m excludes the Groups investment of 27m 2012: nil into Blue Diamond Hotels and Resorts Inc, which was funded by way of a 28m 2012: nil dividend from Sunwing Travel Group Inc, a related party to Blue Diamond Hotels and Resorts Inc. As these transactions are considered to be linked, this investment has been excluded from the calculation of free cash flow.
Further details of these transactions are included in Note 12.
indd 167 18 12 2013 11:10 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 168 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 28.
Operating lease commitments Total Group obligations under non-cancellable operating lease contracts are payable as follows: Aircraft, ships, Aircraft, ships, land and yachts and land and yachts and buildings equipment buildings equipment 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2013 2013 2012 2012 m m m m Total commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: within one year 265 383 245 366 Between one and five years 527 770 496 725 Later than five years 226 427 209 201 Total 1,018 1,580 950 1,292 Operating lease commitments in respect of land and buildings comprise commitments in respect of the groups retail estate, its hotel estate, including those commitments that are required to be disclosed as leases under IFRIC 4, and its office premises.
The future commitment under the Groups floating rate aircraft operating leases at 30 September 2013 was 80m 2012: 100m and is included within the table above.
In total the Group operates 123 aircraft on operating leases at 30 September 2013 2012: 129 aircraft, a minority of which contain purchase options.
Yachts are held on operating leases in TUI Marine as part of the Groups Sunsail and The Moorings fleets, whilst cruise ships are held on operating leases in the UK & Ireland source market.
Capital commitments The Groups capital commitments are as follows: 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Contracted but not provided for: intangible assets 3 6 Total 3 6 In addition to the above items, at the year end the Group had contracted to purchase 79 2012: 31 aircraft with initial deliveries to start in the first quarter of the financial year 2013 14.
At list price, the total order value was US$9,772m 2012: US$4,067m before discounts.
The Group intends to finance these aircraft in advance of their delivery dates and therefore does not expect to use its own cash resources for their purchase.
The Groups share of the capital commitments of its joint ventures and associates at 30 September 2013 was 13m 2012: nil.
Contingent liabilities The group is at any time defending a number of actions against it arising in the normal course of business.
Provision is made for these actions where this is deemed appropriate.
The Directors consider that adequate provision has been made for all known liabilities.
See Note 8 for more details on contingent tax exposures and Note 22 for details on provisions.
indd 168 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STrATEgiC rEPOrT 169 BuSiNESS AND FiNANCiAl rEviEw DirECTOrS rEPOrT FinAnCiAl STATemenTS SHArEHOlDEr iNFOrMATiON 31.
Related party transactions Apart from with its own subsidiaries which are included in the consolidated financial statements, the Group, in carrying out its ordinary business activities, maintained direct and indirect relationships with related parties including consolidated or related companies of its ultimate parent company, Tui Ag.
These companies either purchased or delivered services to companies in the group.
Convertible bond In April 2010, the Company issued a 400m fixed rate 4.9% convertible bond, of which Antium Finance Ltd, an independent special purpose company, subscribed for 50%.
TUI AG entered into a forward purchase agreement with Antium Finance Ltd for these 200m convertible bonds, in order to prevent dilution of its majority shareholding.
TUI AG is entitled to receive the interest coupon on these bonds and to repurchase these bonds by July 2014 at the latest.
Trademark licence Agreement The Trademark Licence Agreement incorporates trademark licences granted from TUI AG to members of the TUI Tourism Group in relation to TUI Tourisms use of the TUI name and logo and other trademarks from within TUI AGs portfolio of trademarks used in the former TUI Tourisms business.
Licence fees payable under each licence are an annual fee equal to 0.02% of the average annual gross turnover of the relevant licensee under the relevant trademarks measured over a three year period.
Total licence fees charged for the year ended 30 September 2013 were 3m 2012: 3m.
Each licences standard terms are for five years with an option for the relevant licensee to extend for a further five years on the same terms.
Hotel Framework Agreement TUI Deutschland has signed an exclusivity agreement with TUI AGs Robinson hotel portfolio.
Under the terms of the agreement, TUI Deutschland paid 8m in the financial year ended 30 September 2012, 10m in the financial year ending 30 September 2013 and must pay 12m per year thereafter.
The contract also contains performance related elements linked to occupancy rates under which either more can be paid or refunds received.
Details of transactions with related parties during the year and balances outstanding at the balance sheet date are set out in the tables below: income Expenses including interest Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Related party ultimate parent Tui Ag 8 7 4 6 Hotel and resort subsidiaries of Tui Ag 1 8 289 332 Other subsidiaries of Tui Ag 13 4 9 2 Joint ventures and associates of Tui Ag 10 13 85 73 Joint ventures of the group 41 47 132 75 Associates of the group 15 17 14 24 Total 88 96 533 512 Income earned from TUI AG includes airline revenue of 4m 2012: 3m and recharges of administrative costs of 4m 2012: 3m.
Income earned from hotels and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG and joint ventures of the Group includes accommodation and destination services provided by the Group to the related entities.
The income relating to the Groups joint ventures includes 32m 2012: 35m from Togebi Holdings Limited, the Groups joint venture in Russia, and its subsidiaries.
Income received from associates of the Group principally represents aircraft sublease income from Sunwing, as detailed in Note 7.
Expenses paid to TUI AG includes interest expense of 1m 2012: 2m.
The remaining expenses paid to TUI AG of 3m 2012: 4m relates to aircraft lease costs and licence fees.
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, 10m 2012: 10m of the interest payable in the year in respect of the Groups convertible bonds has been paid to Antium Finance Ltd, a special purpose company which purchased 200m of the Groups 4.9% convertible bond.
TUI AG remains entitled to receive the interest on these bonds from Antium Finance ltd.
Expenses relating to hotels and resort subsidiaries of TUI AG, joint ventures and associates of TUI AG and joint ventures and associates of the group relate to travel related services, primarily made up of accommodation and destination services costs.
Related party receivables 30 September 2013 30 September 2012 Current non-current Total Current Non-current Total assets assets assets assets assets assets m m m m m m Related party ultimate parent Tui Ag 2 2 Subsidiaries of Tui Ag 1 1 11 11 Joint ventures and associates of Tui Ag 6 1 7 5 5 Joint ventures of the group 43 35 78 30 34 64 Associates of the group 3 3 6 6 Total 55 36 91 52 34 86 23 Financial XNoteX24XXX30Xincl v74 copy.
indd 169 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 170 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 31.
Related party transactions continued Receivables due from related parties are reported in Note 16.
Amounts owed from TUI AG and its subsidiaries of 3m 2012: 11m are in respect of current trade and other receivables.
Amounts owed by joint ventures of the Group that are due after more than one year of 35m 2012: 34m include a loan of US$12m, equating to 8m 2012: 7m including interest from TUI Travel Holdings Limited, a direct subsidiary of the Company, to Togebi Holdings Limited.
This loan is unsecured, bears interest at a rate of 7% and is repayable by February 2017.
The remaining balance due after more than one year principally comprises hotel prepayments made to the Atlantica leisure group of companies.
Amounts owed by joint ventures that are due within one year of 43m 2012: 30m include accommodation costs due from Togebi Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries of 15m 2012: 16m, which were non interest bearing balances.
The remaining balance due within one year includes current hotel prepayments made to the Atlantica leisure group of companies.
Related party payables 30 September 2013 30 September 2012 Current non-current Total Current Non-current Total liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m m m Related party ultimate parent Tui Ag 7 7 8 8 Hotel and resort subsidiaries of Tui Ag 48 48 45 45 Joint ventures and associates of Tui Ag 11 11 19 19 Joint ventures of the group 26 1 27 10 11 21 Associates of the group 5 5 12 12 Total 97 1 98 94 11 105 Payables outstanding with related parties are reported in Notes 20, 21 and 23.
The above balances exclude 200m nominal value of the Groups convertible bonds 4.9% April 2017 which have been sold to Antium Finance Ltd. Tui Ag is entitled to receive the interest coupon on these bonds and to repurchase these bonds by July 2014 at the latest.
Further details of the convertible bonds are given in Note 20.
Amounts payable to hotels and resorts of TUI AG and joint ventures and associates of TUI AG are in respect of current trade payables primarily associated with accommodation and destination services costs.
Details on interest rate and liquidity risks in respect of balances with related parties are included in Notes 26 E and 26 F respectively.
Key management compensation Details of Directors remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report.
In accordance with IAS 24, key management functions within the Group the GMB and the Directors of the Company were related parties whose remuneration has to be listed separately.
The compensation paid in respect of key management personnel including Directors was as follows: Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September 2013 2012 m m Short term employee benefits 9 9 Termination benefits 1 Post-employment benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 10 9 Total 20 20 Spanish tax case In connection with the settlement of the tax dispute in Spain described in Note 8, on 5 August 2013 arrangements were entered into between the Company, one of its subsidiaries, Tui Travel Accommodation and Destinations S. l. u. and a former director of that subsidiary.
That individual, a related party of the Company by virtue of their position as a key member of management, intends to plead guilty to a number of tax offences as part of the conclusion of the overall settlement.
At that time, the subsidiary will have settled the outstanding balance of claimed tax, interest and penalties.
The arrangements include agreement to indemnify the individual against, and not to seek future recovery of, the amounts payable, agreement to pay the individuals legal costs, and certain variations to the individuals terms of service.
The indemnity and agreement regarding recovery from the individual in relation to the penalties was given as the Board considered these to be matters for the companies involved.
In reaching the settlement in Spain and concluding these arrangements, the Board took account of the fact that when the transactions were executed, the law in Spain permitted the tax authorities to take action only against individuals and not companies.
The Board considered this to be a corporate liability and not an individual liability, and therefore because the individual could have been any director of the relevant subsidiaries, the identity of the individual is not considered to be relevant.
This legislation was changed in 2010.
For the purposes of related party transaction disclosure, the aggregate value ascribed to the arrangements with the individual, including the indemnity and waiver, is 16.7m, of which 13.1m is ascribed to the waiver i. e. the 15m penalty referred to in Note 8, 0.1m represents legal costs paid and the balance is remuneration under the revised service contract payable in the ordinary course of their service over its anticipated life.
Cash payments to the individual directly related to the settlement totalled approximately 0.1m for their legal costs.
indd 170 13 12 2013 18:03 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 171 BuSineSS and financial review directOrS rePOrt Financial statements SharehOlder infOrmatiOn 32.
Principal operating subsidiaries Other than as stated below, all of the principal operating subsidiaries listed in the following table are wholly owned.
Principal operating subsidiaries are those which, in the opinion of the Directors, significantly affected the Sectors results and net assets during the year.
A full list will be included in the Companys next annual return to Companies House.
The Directors consider that those companies not listed are not significant in relation to the Sector specified.
TUI UK Limited is presented within the Mainstream Sector UK & Ireland to reflect its principal operations but the Company also includes certain UK Specialist & Activity businesses at 30 September 2013.
Subsidiary country nature of business mainstream sector mainstream UK & ireland Falcon Leisure Group Overseas Limited United Kingdom tour operator thomson airways limited United Kingdom airline TUI Travel Aviation Finance Limited United Kingdom leasing company TUI UK Limited United Kingdom tour operator TUI UK Retail Limited United Kingdom Travel agent mainstream Germany Berge & Meer Touristik GmbH germany tour operator LTUR Tourismus AG 70% germany tour operator TUI Aviation GmbH germany leasing company tui deutschland gmbh germany tour operator TUI Leisure Travel GmbH germany Travel agent TUIfly GmbH germany airline mainstream nordics fritidsresor aB Sweden tour operator Oy Finnmatkat AB finland tour operator Star tour a S Denmark tour operator  aS norway tour operator TUIfly Nordic AB Sweden airline mainstream France corsair Sa france airline tui france SaS france tour operator mainstream Other Jetair nv Belgium tour operator TT Hotels Turkey Otel Hizmetleri Turizm five Ticaret Anonim Sirketi Turkey hotel operator TUI Suisse AG Switzerland tour operator tui airlines Belgium nv Belgium airline tui airlines nederland Bv netherlands airline tui austria holding gmbh austria tour operator tui nederland nv netherlands tour operator tui Poland Sp Zoo Poland tour operator accommodation & Destinations sector lima tours S. a. c. Peru tour operator asiarooms Pte ltd Singapore Online travel agent Beds On line Slu Spain accommodation wholesaler Blue Travel Partner Services SA 99% dominican republic Inbound services Club Turavia SA fide CV mexico accommodation wholesaler hotelbeds dominicana Sa dominican republic accommodation wholesaler hotelbeds Product, Slu Spain accommodation wholesaler hotelbeds, Slu Spain accommodation wholesaler hotelbeds Spain, Slu Spain accommodation wholesaler Hotelbeds UK Limited United Kingdom accommodation wholesaler hotelbeds uSa, inc. uSa accommodation wholesaler Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services, Inc. uSa Inbound services Intercruises Shoreside & Port Services, SLU Spain Inbound services late rooms limited United Kingdom Online travel agent Pacific World Singapore Pte Limited Singapore Inbound services transfar-agencia fide viagens e turismo unipessoal lda Portugal Inbound services TUI Hellas Travel Tourism and Airlines AE greece Inbound services tui Portugal-agencia fide viagens e turismo Sa Portugal Inbound services tui espaa turismo Sa Spain Inbound services ultramar express transport Sa Spain Inbound services 24 Financial XNoteX31XXX35Xincl v34 copy.
indd 171 13 12 2013 18:04 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 172 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Principal operating subsidiaries continued Subsidiary country nature of business specialist & activity sector crown Blue line limited United Kingdom tour operator Crown Travel Limited United Kingdom tour operator elc english limited United Kingdom language teaching Exodus Travels Limited 60% United Kingdom tour operator Fanfirm Pty Limited australia tour operator first choice Sailing, inc. uSa tour operator Gullivers Sports Travel Limited United Kingdom tour operator Hayes & Jarvis Travel Limited United Kingdom tour operator Headwater Holidays Limited 60% United Kingdom tour operator Intrepid Travel Pty Ltd 60% australia tour operator Mariner International Travel, Inc. uSa tour operator Peregrine Adventures Pty Ltd 60% australia tour operator Porter and haylett limited United Kingdom Boat owning company Quark Expeditions, Inc. uSa tour operator Ski Bound Limited United Kingdom tour operator Specialist Holidays Travel Limited United Kingdom tour operator Sunsail limited United Kingdom tour operator Sunsail worldwide Sailing limited United Kingdom tour operator tcS and Starquest expeditions, inc. uSa tour operator the moorings limited British virgin islands tour operator Thomson Sport UK Limited United Kingdom tour operator Travcoa Corporation uSa tour operator Travel Class Limited United Kingdom tour operator Travel Turf, Inc. uSa tour operator Travelmood Limited United Kingdom tour operator Trek America Travel Limited 60% United Kingdom tour operator ttSS limited United Kingdom tour operator Williment Travel Group Limited new Zealand tour operator world challenge expeditions limited United Kingdom tour operator world challenge expeditions Pty limited australia tour operator Your man tours, inc. uSa tour operator Zegrahm expeditions, inc. uSa tour operator All subsidiaries except those marked with an asterisk are held indirectly by the Company.
In addition to the ownership of 100% of the ordinary shares of the above listed principal operating subsidiaries, the Group also owns the following shares in these companies: Principal operating subsidiary additional classes of shares Ski Bound Limited 167,502 1 A ordinary shares Club Turavia SA fide CV 2,317,133 MXP1 variable shares 24 Financial XNoteX31XXX35Xincl v34 copy.
indd 172 13 12 2013 18:04 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 173 BuSineSS and financial review directOrS rePOrt Financial statements SharehOlder infOrmatiOn 33. earnings per share The basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the result attributable to ordinary shareholders by the applicable weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Benefit Trust.
The diluted earnings per share is calculated on the result attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by the adjusted potential weighted average number of ordinary shares, which takes account of the outstanding share awards and the impact of the conversion of the convertible bonds, where their conversion is dilutive.
The additional underlying earnings per share measures have been presented to provide the reader of the accounts with a better understanding of the results.
Basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows: Weighted weighted average no.
earnings earnings of shares per share earnings of shares per share 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 m millions Pence m millions Pence Basic earnings per share 60 1,110 5.4 138 1,108 12.5 Effect of dilutive options 8 10 Diluted earnings per share 60 1,118 5.4 138 1,118 12.3 For the statutory measure of diluted earnings per share, the effects of including the convertible bonds are anti-dilutive in both years and therefore this is not included within the calculation.
alternative measures of earnings per share Weighted weighted average no.
earnings earnings of shares per share earnings of shares per share 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 m millions Pence m millions Pence Basic earnings per share 60 1,110 5.4 138 1,108 12.5 acquisition related expenses and impairments 253 92 Separately disclosed items 24 92 tax base difference 5 36 Basic underlying earnings per share 342 1,110 30.8 286 1,108 25.8 Effect of dilutive options 8 10 Effect of convertible bond net of tax 49 205 47 205 Diluted underlying earnings per share 391 1,323 29.6 333 1,323 25.2 the tax base difference primarily represents the difference between the actual charge in the consolidated income statement including tax on the profits of joint ventures and associates and the Groups underlying tax charge, as disclosed below.
The dilutive effect of the convertible bonds is included solely to calculate diluted underlying earnings per share.
Reconciliation of profit for the year from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders from continuing operations Year ended Year ended 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 m m Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders from continuing operations 60 138 result attributable to non-controlling interests from continuing operations 3 1 Profit for the year from continuing operations 63 137 non-GaaP measure Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to underlying earnings Year ended Year ended 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 note m m Underlying operating profit 589 490 Net underlying financial expenses 5 116 100 Underlying profit before tax 473 390 Underlying tax charge at 27% 2012: 27% 128 105 Underlying profit for the year 345 285 attributable to ordinary shareholders 342 286 attributable to non-controlling interests 3 1 Underlying profit for the year 345 285 24 Financial XNoteX31XXX35Xincl v34 copy.
indd 173 13 12 2013 18:04 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork 174 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34. capital management The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to the Parent Company.
The Boards policy has been to maintain a strong capital base in order to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Boards objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure.
This includes maintaining the level of dividends at a level commensurate with underlying operating profitability of the Group and obtaining sufficient long and short term debt facilities that are appropriate for the seasonality of the business.
The Group has a roadmap to deliver sustainable long term value to shareholders with a return on invested capital ROIC greater than the Groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Progress in achieving this objective has been made during this year by improving underlying operating profit, which increases ROIC to 14.8% 2012: 12.2%.
The Group is required to comply with external banking credit facility covenants, with compliance being tested twice a year.
The Group has complied with these covenants throughout the year and up to the date of signing these financial statements.
Further information on these covenants is provided in Note 1 B v. ROIC is defined as Underlying NOPAT Average Invested Capital.
Underlying NOPAT is underlying net operating profit after tax charged at the effective annual rate.
As such, ROIC is considered to be a non-GAAP measure of performance.
Average Invested Capital comprises an average of the net assets at the start and end of the year of the Group, adjusted to add back net debt, cumulative goodwill impairment charges and defined benefit pension scheme net deficits.
There is also an adjustment to net debt to reflect a seasonal average cash balance.
Calculations for the current and prior years are: Year ended Year ended 30 september 30 September 2013 2012 Return on invested capital note m m Underlying operating profit consolidated income statement 589 490 Taxation at the underlying effective rate of 27% 2012: 27% 159 132 Underlying nOPat 430 358 net assets consolidated balance sheet 1,491 1,609 net debt 27 A 108 Seasonal net debt adjustment 320 400 Cumulative goodwill impairment charge 378 190 Defined benefit pension net deficit 6 C 661 648 invested capital 2,850 2,955 Average Invested Capital 2,903 2,936 ROic 14.8% 12.2% The Board seeks to maintain a balance between the levels of debt borrowings undertaken and the advantages and security afforded by a sound capital position.
An analysis of net cash debt at the year end is in Note 27 A.
Certain subsidiaries have external capital requirements as a result of applicable travel industry regulations in their jurisdictions.
Compliance with these regulations is mandatory for the relevant operating businesses in those countries in order that they are able to continue trading.
Key countries with such mandatory capital requirements are France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Australia.
The capital requirements in these countries stipulate maintaining minimum equity net asset levels in operating subsidiaries.
All such capital requirements were complied with as at 30 September 2013.
None of these requirements place any significant restriction on the Groups funding or operations.
Post balance sheet events On 19 November 2013, the Group announced that it had agreed to sell 87.4% of its interest in The Airline Group Limited, a shareholder in UK Air Traffic controller NATS Holdings Limited, for cash consideration of approximately 38 million.
The transaction is expected to complete during the first quarter of calendar year 2014 subject to clearance from the European Commission.
Also on 19 November 2013, the Group announced that it had completed an order for two additional Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner aircraft from The Boeing Company Boeing at a significant discount to the list price as a result of various concessions, allowances and support from Boeing.
At current list prices, the value of two Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner aircraft is $422 million 264 million.
Ultimate parent company The ultimate parent company is considered to be TUI AG, a company registered in Berlin and Hanover Federal Republic of Germany.
At 30 September 2013, TUI AG was the beneficial owner of 54.48% of the ordinary share capital of the Company.
In addition, a number of bonds are held indirectly by TUI AG and, if converted, would give rise to 52,309,463 of new shares.
On a fully diluted basis, if all bonds were converted, TUI AGs shareholding would be 50% at 30 September 2013.
TUI AG prepares consolidated financial statements which include the results of the Group.
TUI AG is the parent undertaking of the smallest and largest group to consolidate these financial statements.
The accounting reference date of TUI AG is 30 September.
Copies of the TUI AG financial statements are publicly available and can be obtained from the registered office of TUI AG situated at Karl-Wiechert-Allee 4, 30625 Hanover, Federal Republic of Germany.
