n o r t h a M E r i C a 02 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Where we operate TUI Travel is a global business operating across 31 key source markets Our 31 key SOurce marketS Australia Austria Belgium Brazil nOrth america Canada China 15bn Czech Republic revenue generated from across all the Denmark groups businesses Finland France Germany Hungary Brightspark school trip, New York india OPeratiOnS ireland The US and Canada are popular destinations for both our Mainstream and Specialist & Italy Activity Sectors, with a selection of specialist Luxembourg brands operating out of North America, including Quark Expeditions and TCS & Mexico Starquest.
There is also a market for national The Netherlands travel within the US, which includes educational trips and Spring Break.
Outside of Europe, New Zealand Canada is one of our largest source markets.
Norway Poland Russia Singapore Slovenia Spain Sweden Switzerland central & SOuth america Thailand Ukraine United Kingdom United States Isla Saona Beach, Ires, Dominican Republic OPeratiOnS We remain keen to develop our operations in South America and continue to assess the viability of these countries both as source markets and as destinations.
The Caribbean and Mexico are very popular destinations for our customers and many adventure brands use South or Central America as destinations for their trips.
Last year we invested in the Brazil-based online travel agent MalaPronta and continue to grow this business.
indd 2 13 12 2013 17:33 tt14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork TT14 | AR 2013 | 13 12 2013 | Artwork L a t i n a M E r i C a a u S t r a L E n a u o S i r r a o t P h E a M E r i C a TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 Strategic rePOrt 03 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REvIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION eurOPe 46m Sensimar, Agios Gordios Beach, Corfu delivered from OPeratiOnS business improvement programmes Europe is the home of many of our key source markets and destinations.
The Group is operated out of the United Kingdom, and has key markets in Spain, the Nordics & Germany, with Mediterranean locations consistently some of our most popular destinations.
aSia & auStralaSia Krabi Beach, Thailand OPeratiOnS 589m Asia is a key area of focus as we concentrate underlying operating our attention on various emerging economies profit achieved for the across the continent.
com, the financial year 2013 online travel agent, is growing quickly in line with demand for holiday accommodation in Asia, focusing on Malaysia, Singapore and Australia.
Australia is also home to some of our Specialist & Activity brands.
One of our leading joint ventures, PEAK, is based in Australia, along with a selection of sports brands in both Australia and New Zealand.
africa i-to-i conservation project in Kenya OPeratiOnS Africa remains a key destination market for TUI Travel, both in our Mainstream Sector and Specialist & Activity Sector.
Key destinations for the Mainstream Sector include Morocco, Cape verde and Mauritius whilst Specialist & Activity brands such as World Challenge tend to operate more in Southern Africa, Zambia, Tanzania and Botswana.
