TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 183 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ShAREhOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder discount Eligible shareholders are entitled to the following discounts which Real Gap are subject to change when booking holidays through our dedicated Best price on the www.
co. uk website plus a further Shareholder Discount Line.
The shareholder must be the lead name discount of 10%.
i-to-i volunteering Best price on the dedicated website plus a further discount of 20 Best price on the www.
com website plus a further per adult to a maximum of 40 per booking cruise, short mediumdiscount of 10%.
haul destinations or 40 per adult to a maximum of 80 per booking long-haul destinations for the following: Exodus Best land only price on the www.
co. uk website First Choice www.
co. uk plus a further 5% discount per adult.
co. uk Thomson Worldwide www.
com Quark Expeditions Best land only price on the www.
com website plus a further 5% discount per adult.
co. uk website Hayes & Jarvis www.
co. uk plus a further discount of 20 per adult to a maximum of 40 per booking on all our French club hotel destinations.
co. uk Thomson Ski & Snowboarding www.
co. uk Discounts are not valid on accommodation-only bookings and cannot be used in conjunction with any discretionary discounts, group savings or other promotional Crystal Ski www.
co. uk Discounts are not valid on accommodation or flight-only bookings and cannot be used in conjunction with other promotional offers including but not restricted to group discounts.
Valid on charter flights to European destinations only.
Thomson Airways Best price on the www.
co. uk website plus a further In order to qualify for the discount, private shareholders including discount of 10 per person for a return journey short medium-haul those holding through a nominee account must hold at least 500 destinations or 20 per person for a return journey long-haul ordinary shares in the Company on the date of booking the holiday destinations.
and must have been on the register of shareholders for a minimum period of one year on that date.
hotelopia To make a booking call us on: 0844 800 3104 Monday, Wednesday Best price on all hotels on the www.
co. uk and Friday 0900-1800hrs, Tuesday 1000-1800 hrs and Saturday website plus an additional 14% discount.
Trek America Share dealing service Best price on the website www.
com An execution-only share-dealing service for the purchase and sale of plus an additional 10% discount.
TUI Travel PLC shares is available from Equiniti.
Equiniti is authorised Grand American and regulated by the Financial Services Authority and is a member of Adventures Best price on the website the London Stock Exchange and PLUS.
com For details, please contact: plus an additional 10% discount.
Equiniti Share Dealing Service The Moorings Suite 1 1 Best price on the www.
com website plus a further 3 Minster Court discount of 20 per adult to a maximum of 40 per booking Mincing Lane short-haul destinations or 40 per adult to a maximum of London EC3R 7DD 80 per booking long-haul destinations.
Telephone: 0808 208 4433 Sunsail Find out more Best price on the www.
co. uk website plus a further TUI Travel PLC has a corporate website which can be accessed discount of 20 per adult to a maximum of 40 per booking through www.
com short-haul destinations or 40 per adult to a maximum of 80 per booking long-haul destinations.
Le Boat Best price on the www.
co. uk website plus a further discount of 20 per adult to a maximum of 40 per booking on all destinations.
