Financial Statements STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with records that are sufficient to show and explain the applicable law and regulations.
Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Directors are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
to prepare the parent company Financial Statements in The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted integrity of the corporate and financial information included Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company other jurisdictions.
and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
Directors responsibility statement Company We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Select suitable accounting policies and then apply by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, them consistently: liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Company and the undertakings included in the and prudent: consolidation taken as a whole: State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the have been followed, subject to any material departures development and performance of the business and the disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and position of the Company and the undertakings included Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern in the consolidation taken as a whole together with basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Company will continue in business.
that they face: and The Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken Group as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and In preparing the Group Financial Statements, International provide the information necessary for shareholders to Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: assess the Companys performance, business model Properly select and apply accounting policies: and strategy.
Present information, including accounting policies, By order of the Board in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys Aidan Heavey Ian Springett financial position and financial performance: and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
11 February 2014 11 February 2014 122 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TULLOW OIL PLC 4 Opinion on Financial In our opinion: Statements of the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Tullow Oil plc of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent company Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Financial Statements comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expense, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Accounting Policies with related notes 1 to 32 and the Company Accounting Policies with related notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company Financial Statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Going concern As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the Directors statement contained within the Directors Corporate Governance Compliance Report on page 88 that the Group is a going concern.
We confirm that: we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the Financial Statements is appropriate: and we have not identified any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt on the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our assessment of risks The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the of material misstatement greatest effect on our audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Risks How the scope of our audit responded to the risk The assessment of the carrying For exploration and evaluation assets we participated in meetings with key operational and value of: finance staff at all key locations to understand the exploration and appraisal activities and gathered evidence including confirmations of ongoing appraisal activity and the licence phase to assess the intangible exploration and value of exploration and evaluation assets carried forward.
Where an asset has been impaired, we evaluation assets: and have challenged management on the events that led to the impairment.
non-current oil and For non-current oil and gas assets we evaluated the assumptions and judgements used in gas assets managements review of the portfolio for indicators of impairment and the specific impairment tests resulting from that review, including specifically: future oil and gas prices, costs, production volumes, discount rates, economic cut-off and sensitivities.
The recoverability of other We considered the appropriateness of the assumptions and estimates made by management and non-current assets, specifically described in Accounting Policy af in connection with the likelihood and timing of recovery of the the continued recognition of $358.1 contingent consideration from the Uganda farm-down.
We also reviewed the Memorandum of million contingent consideration Understanding between the licence partners and the Government of Uganda.
receivable as a result of the Uganda licence farm-down in 2012 The finalisation of fair values We inspected, challenged, and corroborated by reference to third-party information where attributable to the identifiable available, evidence pertaining to each of the key assumptions described in note 9 in managements assets, liabilities and contingent assessment, calculation and presentation of the fair values of the identifiable assets, liabilities and liabilities following the acquisition contingent liabilities acquired through the purchase of Spring Energy Norway AS.
of Spring Energy Norway AS and the recognition of goodwill in relation to this transaction The recognition and measurement We considered, together with tax specialists within the audit team, each of the material tax claims of the Groups exposure to various and assessments made against the Group and the associated accounting treatment for each of tax claims and assessments across these items, including the assessment of tax payable on the farm-down of licences in Uganda that completed in 2012.
Our work included reviewing applicable third-party tax and legal advice.
com 123 Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED TO THE MEMBERS OF TULLOW OIL PLC The recognition and measurement We have assessed the appropriateness of the assumptions used in the decommissioning of decommissioning provisions calculation which are discussed in note 24 of the Financial Statements.
In particular, we obtained appropriate supporting evidence for the expected timing, related costs and discount rate applied to the calculation, including consideration of the third-party independent expert report prepared for management on the decommissioning cost estimates.
We have benchmarked the assumptions used against available market information.
The Audit Committees consideration of these risks is set out on page 91.
Our audit procedures relating to these matters were designed in the context of our audit of the Financial Statements as a whole, and not to express an opinion on individual accounts or disclosures.
Our opinion on the Financial Statements is not modified with respect to any of the risks described above, and we do not express an opinion on these individual matters.
Our application of materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be $100 million, which is below 8.5% of normalised pre-tax profit and below 2% of equity.
Pre-tax profit is normalised when determining materiality to exclude one-off items that would significantly distort profit year on year.
We determined that both equity and pre-tax profit are appropriate bases for calculating materiality as shareholders place significant value on the Groups assets, particularly on its portfolio of exploration, evaluation and development assets, whilst the development of the Jubilee field in Ghana and other fields entering the production phase have also established the importance of the Income Statement to shareholders.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $2 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope Our Group audit scope included a full audit of all eight reporting unit locations, based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the of our audit Groups business operations at those locations.
These eight reporting units account for 100% of the Groups total revenue, profit before tax and net assets.
The group team audits the UK, Kenya and Uganda reporting units directly and their involvement in the work performed by component auditors varies by location and includes, at a minimum, a review of the reporting deliverables provided by the component audit teams.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that has been designed so that the Senior Statutory Auditor visits each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused at least once every two years.
In addition, in the current year the Senior Statutory Auditor or senior members of his team visited the most material financial reporting locations in Gabon, Ghana, Kenya, South Africa and the UK to support and review the audit work performed by the component auditors.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion: prescribed by the Companies the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly Act 2006 prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: required to report by exception we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company Financial Statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
124 Tullow Oil plc 2013 Annual Report and Accounts
