Supplementary Information 4 Electronic communication EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE To reduce impact on the environment, the Company In early 2014, a new Executive Committee was encourages all shareholders to receive their shareholder formed that assists the Executive Directors in communications including annual reports and notices running the business.
The Committee provides of meetings electronically.
Once registered for electronic more depth and focus to leadership of the communications, shareholders will be sent an email each business and delivery of our business plan and time the Company publishes statutory documents, providing strategic objectives.
It comprises the Executive a link to the information.
Directors and 10 senior regional and functional business leaders.
Tullow actively supports Woodland Trust, the UKs leading woodland conservation charity.
Computershare, together Aidan Heavey with Woodland Trust, has established eTree, an Chief Executive Officer environmental programme designed to promote electronic shareholder communications.
Under this programme, the Graham Martin Company makes a donation to eTree for every shareholder Executive Director and Company Secretary who registers for electronic communication.
To register for this service, simply visit www.
com tullowoilplc with Ian Springett your shareholder number and email address to hand.
Chief Financial Officer Shareholder security Angus McCoss Shareholders are advised to be cautious about any Exploration Director unsolicited financial advice: offers to buy shares at a Paul McDade discount or offers of free company reports.
More detailed Chief Operating Officer information can be found at www.
uk scams and in the Shareholder Services section of the Investors area David Lawrie of the Tullow website: www.
Vice President North & West Africa Gary Thompson Vice President East & Southern Africa Claire Hawkings Vice President Rest of World Ian Cloke Vice President Exploration Stuart Wheaton Vice President Development & Operations Sandy Stash Vice President Safety, Sustainability & External Affairs Chris Perry Vice President Investor Relations & Communications Les Wood Vice President Commercial Brian Williams Vice President Corporate Finance Gordon Headley Vice President Human Resources www.
