Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial statements Glossary: Explanation of UBMs business measures Financial measure How we define it Why we use it Underlying revenue and underlying Underlying measures are adjusted for the estimated We believe that underlying growth rates provide operatingprofit effects of acquisitions, discontinued products, insight into the organic growth of the business, foreign exchange and biennial events.
without distortion from the effect of acquisitions, discontinued products, biennial events and foreign currency movements during the period.
Adjusted operating profit Operating profit excluding amortisation of intangible Commonly used by shareholders to measure our assets arising on acquisitions, exceptional items and performance, individually and relative to other share of taxation on joint ventures and associates.
Margin Margin relates to our adjusted operating margin.
It is adjusted operating profit expressed as a percentage of revenues.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, Assists investors in their assessment and amortisation and exceptional items.
understanding of our earnings and cash generative capacity.
Adjusted profit before tax and adjusted EPS Before amortisation of intangible assets on Assists investors in their assessment and acquisitions, exceptional items, share of taxation understanding of our earnings and is also a measure on profit from joint ventures and associates and net commonly used by shareholders to measure our financing expense adjustments.
performance, individually and relative to other companies.
Adjusted EPS includes share of taxation on profit from joint ventures and associates but excludes deferred tax on the amortisation of intangible assets.
Diluted adjusted EPS includes the impact of share options.
Net debt Net debt is current and non-current borrowings and Provides a measure of indebtedness in excess of the derivatives associated with debt instruments, less current cash available to pay down debt.
Net debt to EBITDA Net debt divided by EBITDA.
Provides a measure of financial leverage.
Net debt to LTM EBITDA EBITDA adjusted to include a full year of pro forma operating profit from acquisitions made during 2012.
Free cash flow Net cash provided by operating activities after Helps assess our ability, over the long term, to create meeting obligations for interest, tax, dividends paid value for our shareholders as it represents cash to non controlling interests, capital expenditures and available to repay debt, pay dividends and fund future other investing activities.
Adjusted operating cash flow Adjusted to exclude non-operating movements The Group believes adjusted operating cash in working-capital, such as expenditure against flow assists investors in their assessment and reorganisation and restructuring provisions.
understanding of our operating cash flows.
Cash conversion Cash conversion is the ratio of adjusted cash generated from operations to adjusted operating profit.
Pre-tax return on investment Attributable adjusted operating profit divided by the Helps us assess the performance of our acquisitions cost of acquisitions.
Calculated on a pro forma basis, relative to our target pre-tax cost of capital threshold as if the acquired business were owned throughout of 10%.
Estimated total consideration Estimated total consideration includes initial Provides a measure of total consideration for consideration net of cash acquired, the latest businesses acquired.
estimate of expected contingent consideration and deferred consideration.
Return on average capital employed ROACE ROACE is operating profit before exceptional items Provides a measure of the efficiency of profitability divided by average capital employed.
Average capital of our capital investment.
employed is the average of opening and closing total assets less current liabilities for each period.
Effective tax rate The effective tax rate on adjusted profit before Provides a more comparable basis to analyse our tax taxreflects the tax rate excluding movements rate.
on deferred tax balances on the amortisation of intangibleassets.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 131
