Financial statements Section 5: Capital structure and financial policy continued 5.4 Net financing expense continued The ineffectiveness on fair value hedges represents the difference between the fair value movement of the interest rate swaps designated as hedge instruments and the fair value movement of the hedged portions of the 250m 6.5% Sterling bonds due 2016 and the $350m 5.75% Dollar bonds due 2020.
The exceptional financing items comprise: 4.1m gain relating to the fair value movement on put options over non-controlling interests 2012: 0.9m loss : and in 2012, a 4.0m gain from the cessation of fair value hedge accounting for a $50m portion of the $350m bond.
This $50m portion of the bond is subsequently accounted for at amortised cost.
5.5 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Accounting policy Hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge risks and accounts for them as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability: cash flow hedges where they hedge exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction: or as a hedge of net investment in foreign operations.
At the inception of a hedge relationship, the Group formally designates and documents the hedge relationship to which the Group wishes to apply hedge accounting and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
For fair value hedges which meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any fair value gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
The carrying amount of the hedged item is adjusted for the change in the fair value of the hedged risk and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges of forecast transactions are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cumulative amount recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified into profit or loss and out of other comprehensive income in the same period in which the hedged firm commitments or forecast transactions are recognised in profit or loss.
Foreign currency borrowings and forward exchange contracts are used as net investment hedges.
All foreign exchange gains or losses arising on translation of net investments are recognised in other comprehensive income and included in cumulative translation differences.
Foreign currency borrowings used to hedge a net investment in a foreign operation are measured using the exchange rate at the reporting date.
The resulting gains or losses are taken to other comprehensive income to the extent that they are effective, with any ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss.
Forward exchange contracts used to hedge a net investment hedge are measured at fair value at the reporting date.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point, any cumulative gains or losses on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive income are retained until the forecast transaction occurs, when they are transferred to profit or loss.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to profit or loss.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments 2013 2012 m m Financial assets non-current 1 Interest rate swaps hedged 11.4 22.9 1 Interest rate swaps not hedged 3.0 3.6 14.4 26.5 Financial liabilities current Forward exchange contracts not hedged 0.1 0.2 Put options over non-controlling interests 5.0 3.2 5.1 3.4 Financial liabilities non-current 1 Forward exchange contracts hedged 1.3 5.5 Put options over non-controlling interests 10.6 10.4 11.9 15.9 1 Derivatives associated with debt instruments.
96 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
