Financial statements Section 6: Acquisitions and disposals 6.1 Acquisitions Growth through acquisitions is one of the Groups priorities in order to deliver its strategy of taking a leading role in the Live Media and B2B Communications markets in chosen communities.
Further details of the Groups strategy are provided in the Strategic Review on pages 10 to 13.
The Group completed five acquisitions in 2013 none of which were individually significant 2012: ten acquisitions none of which were individually significant.
Details of acquisitions have been provided in aggregate in the table below.
Note 6.2 provides details of equity transactions which are those acquisitions where the Group already held control prior to the transaction.
Accounting policy The Group uses the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred is measured at the amount of cashand cash equivalents transferred, the fair value of any equity instruments transferred and the fair value of any contingent consideration arrangement.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is classified as a financial liability that is within the scope of IAS 39 is recognised in profit or loss.
The Group recognises the fair values of the assets acquired, the liabilities including contingent liabilities assumed, and the equity interests issued by the Group.
For significant acquisitions, management is assisted by external advisors in identifying and measuring the fair values of any intangible assets acquired.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value under the full goodwill method or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
When the full goodwill method is used, the fair value of the non-controlling interest is measured using a multiples approach adjusted for the discount that market participants would expect for the lack of control.
Acquisition costs incurred are recognised as an expense in profit or loss and classified as exceptional items.
If a business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying amount of the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
When there is a change in ownership of a subsidiary without a change in control, the difference between the consideration paid received and the relevant share of the carrying amount of net assets acquired disposed of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Acquisitions The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired in respect of acquisitions excluding equity transactions made in 2013 and 2012 was: Restated All all acquisitions acquisitions 2013 2012 m m Intangible assets 4.7 14.4 Property, plant and equipment 0.2 Trade and other receivables 1.6 3.2 Cash and cash equivalents 1.8 0.2 Total assets 8.3 17.8 Trade and other payables 1.8 6.7 Deferred tax liability 0.7 3.2 Total liabilities 2.5 9.9 Identifiable net assets acquired 5.8 7.9 Goodwill arising on acquisition 9.3 28.5 Contingent consideration adjustments on pre 1 January 2010 acquisitions 1.0 Non-controlling interests 3.0 5.0 12.1 30.4 Trade and other receivables acquired have been measured at fair value which is the gross contractual amounts receivable.
All amounts recognised are expected to be collected.
104 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
