Financial statements Section 1: Basis of preparation This section provides general information about the Group and the accounting policies that apply to the consolidated financial statements as a whole.
Accounting policies that are specific to a particular note are provided within the note to which it relates.
This section also details the new or amended accounting standards adopted during the year as well as the anticipated impact of future changes to accounting standards that are not yet effective.
UBM plc is a public limited company incorporated in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The registered office is Ogier House, TheEsplanade, St. Helier, JE4 9WG, Jersey.
UBM plc was tax resident in the Republic of Ireland until 30 November 2012 when it returned to the United Kingdom.
The principal activities of the Group are described in Section 2.
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2014.
They are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and are prepared under the historical cost basis except for derivative financial instruments and hedged items which are measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company, UBM plc.
Allamounts are rounded to the nearest 0.1m unless otherwise indicated.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those used for the previous financial year, except for the adoption of the following new and amended IFRSs.
The amendment to IAS 19 Employee benefits has required restatement of the results for the year ended 31 December 2012: these changes are disclosed in Note 7.2.
Accounting standard Requirements Impact on financial statements IFRS 10 Consolidated Establishes a single control model for deciding whether entities should be None: accounting policy has been Financial Statements consolidated by a parent.
IFRS 10 changes the definition of control such that an amended to reflect the new standard.
investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has the rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Distinguishes between joint ventures and joint operations and requires the use None: accounting policy has been and related amendments of the equity method for interests in joint ventures.
Adopted retrospectively from amended to reflect the new standard.
Associates IFRS 12 Disclosures of Requires additional disclosures about an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint Additional disclosures provided in Notes Interests in Other Entities arrangements and associates.
4.4 Investments in joint ventures and associates, 6.1 Acquisitions and 8.1 Principal subsidiaries.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Establishes a single source of guidance for all fair value measurements and requires None: additional disclosures provided in Measurement including additional disclosures about fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does Note 5.6. not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when it is required or permitted.
IAS 1 Presentation of Requires separate presentation of other comprehensive income items that could Revised presentation see consolidated Financial Statements be reclassified in future to profit or loss and those which will never be reclassified.
amended Adopted retrospectively from 1 January 2013.
The amendment has had no impact on the Groups financial position or performance.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits Requires: Reduction in return on plan assets included revised 2011 in profit or loss which, as the Groups all remeasurements of defined benefit obligations and plan assets to be included schemes are currently in deficit, will in other comprehensive income: result in a net financing expense being pension scheme net finance expense to be measured using the discount rate recognised, rather than the previous applied in measuring the defined benefit obligation: net financing income.
The cost of unvested past service costs to be recognised in profit or loss at the earlier of administering the plan will be reported when the amendment occurs or when the related restructuring or termination through the profit and loss.
See Note 7.2 costs are recognised: and for quantification of this change.
IAS 36 Impairment Removes certain disclosures of the recoverable amount of cash-generating units None: disclosures not required prior to of Assets which were unintentionally included in IAS 36 following the issue of IFRS 13.
Early IFRS 13. adopted from 1 January 2013.
70 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The following amendments to accounting standards have also been adopted but they do not impact the consolidated financial statements of the Group: IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Annual improvements 2009-2011: IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting Discontinued operations During the year, the Board of Directors approved a plan as part of a strategic review of Marketing Services activities to dispose of the UBM Channel business and certain UBM Built Environment Marketing Services activities Built MS.
The sale of UBM Channel completed on 16September 2013 and Built MS was disposed on 31 October 2013.
In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations the net results for the year are presented within discontinued operations in the income statement.
The Group classified a disposal group Delta as held for sale at 31 December 2012.
The sale of Delta was completed on 8 April 2013, with theexception of certain businesses in China, India and the UK.
The sale of the China businesses completed on 16 August 2013.
The India businesses still require regulatory approvals and are reported as held for sale at 31 December 2013.
Completion is expected in the next six months.
The UK business will be retained by the Group and is no longer classified as discontinued operations or held for sale.
Under the terms of the sale agreement, Electra Partners LLP received the returns of Delta from 1 January 2013.
Consolidation of the Delta entities therefore ceased on this date in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
Comparative information The comparative information in the income statement and associated notes has been restated for the impact of the UBM Channel and Built MS discontinued operations.
In line with the requirements of IFRS 5, the statement of financial position has not been restated.
The Delta UK business which was classified as discontinuing operations and held for sale at 31 December 2012 has been restated as continuing in the comparative periods.
The comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2012 has also been restated for the finalisation of acquisition accounting for Insight Media Limited, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
The impact of this restatement is to increase goodwill and deferred revenue by 0.8m and 0.7m respectively, and to reduce other receivables by 0.1m.
Trade receivables and deferred revenue have been increased by 36.5m to reclassify certain balances that were previously reported on a net basis.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise those of UBM plc the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and include the Groups interests in joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed, or has the rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting period as the Company, using consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances and transactions are eliminated in full.
With effect from 1 January 2010, total comprehensive income within a subsidiary is attributed to the non-controlling interest even if it results in a deficit balance.
Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are joint arrangements in which the Group has the rights to the net assets through joint control with a third party.
Joint control isthe contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Associates are entities in which the Group has significant influence through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures.
The Group accounts for its interests in joint ventures and associates using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in the joint venture or associate is initially measured at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Groups share of net assets of the associate since the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for impairment.
The income statement reflects the Groups share of the results of operations of the entity.
The statement of comprehensive income includes the Groups share of any other comprehensive income recognised by the joint venture or associate.
All unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions with joint ventures and associates are eliminated in full.
These investments are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the payment is established.
UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 Financial statements Section 1: Basis of preparation continued Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future see page 33 of the Chief Financial Officers review.
The consolidated financial statements are therefore prepared on the going concern basis.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by Group entities in their respective functional currency using the spot rate at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency spot rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date.
Differences arising on the settlement or translation of monetary items are recognised in profit or loss.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date.
Income and expenses are translated at the exchange rate prevailing in the month in which the transactions occurred.
The exchange differences arising on translation for consolidation are recognised in other comprehensive income and are shown as a separate component of equity, which was reset to zero on first time adoption of IFRS.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement or translation of monetary items designated as part of the hedge of the Groups net investment in a foreign operation are also recognised in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the accumulated amount of other comprehensive income held in a separate component of equity relating to that foreign operation is reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss, along with the cumulative amount of exchange recognised in relation to hedging instruments.
Significant accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the accompanying disclosures.
Uncertainty about the assumptions and estimates could result in outcomes which differ from the estimates.
The judgements made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies that have the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements relate to: Unrecognised deferred tax assets Note 3.6.
The identification of cash generating units and assumptions used in the impairment testing of goodwill Note 4.1.
The measurement of retirement benefit obligations Note 7.2.
The identification of intangible assets acquired in business combinations Note 6.1.
The key areas of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date that could have a material effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year relate to: Current tax liabilities Note 3.6.
Forecast cash flows used in annual impairment testing of goodwill Note 4.1.
Contingent consideration valuations Note 6.1 and put options over non-controlling interests Note 6.1.
New and amended IFRS issued by the IASB but not yet effective for the year ended 31 December 2013 The following new and amended IFRSs may have an impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements: Accounting standard Requirements Impact on financial statements IAS 32 Offsetting Financial The amendments to IAS 31 clarify the requirements to the offset of financial The Group does not anticipate that the Assets and Financial assets and financial liabilities.
Specifically the amendment clarifies the meaning adoption of these amendments to IAS 32 Liabilities amended of currently has a legal enforceable right of set-off and simultaneous realisation will have a significant impact on the Groups and settlement.
consolidated financial statements as the Group does not currently have any financial Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. assets and financial liabilities that qualify foroffset.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Financial assets will be measured at amortised cost or fair value.
Liabilities will The Group will assess the effect of IFRS9 be measured in accordance with the existing requirements of IAS 39, but the after the IASB has issued the complete portion of the change in fair value of a liability arising from changes in the entitys standard.
own credit risk will be presented in other comprehensive income, rather than in the income statement.
The IASB has not yet issued the revised requirements on hedge accounting and the impairment of financial assets.
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015.
72 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
