Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Financial statements Section 5: Capital structure and financial policy The section covers financial assets, financial liabilities and equity held by the Group, along with associated income and expenses.
This includes cash, borrowings, put option arrangements and derivatives: working capital information is included in Section 4.
The instruments in place enable the Group to maintain its required capital structure: retaining conservative capital ratios in order to support the business and maximise shareholder value.
Further details of the Groups capital structure and financial instrument risk management objectives, policies and strategies are provided on pages 31 to 33 of the Chief Financial Officers Review.
Accounting policy On initial recognition, financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value.
Transaction costs incurred on the acquisition of derivatives and financial assets and financial liabilities measured at each reporting date at fair value are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Transaction costs incurred on borrowings and other financial assets and financial liabilities measured at each reporting date at amortised cost are added to the carrying amounts of the assets or deducted from the carrying amount of the liabilities.
Put option arrangements that allow non-controlling interest shareholders to require the Group to purchase the non-controlling interest are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are initially recognised at fair value within derivative financial liabilities, with a corresponding charge directly to equity.
Interest rate swaps, forward exchange contracts, put options over non-controlling interests and other derivatives are classified as financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and are measured at each reporting date at fair value.
Changes in the fair values are included in profit or loss within financing income expense unless the instrument has been designated as a hedging instrument see Note 5.5.
The Group only enters into derivative contracts with counterparties with which it has a lending relationship.
Cash and cash equivalents are classified as loans and receivables and measured at each reporting date at amortised cost.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The cash equivalents are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Borrowings and bank overdrafts are measured at each reporting date at amortised cost.
Amortised cost takes into account any differences between the proceeds and the maturity amount, including issue costs and any discounts or premiums due on settlement.
Such differences are recognised as interest expense in the income statement over the expected life of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
The amortised cost calculation is revised when necessary to reflect changes in the expected cash flows and the expected life of the borrowings including the effects of the exercise of any prepayment, call or similar options.
Any resulting adjustment to the carrying amount of the borrowings is recognised as interest expense in the income statement.
Liabilities for contingent and deferred consideration on acquisitions is measured at the date of acquisition and at each subsequent reporting date at fair value see Note 6.1.
Changes to the fair value of such consideration are recognised in profit or loss.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired.
A financial liability is derecognised whenthe obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Where terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such a modification or exchange is treated as derecognition of the original liability and recognition of a new liability, and the difference between the carrying amounts of the original liability and the fair value of the new liability is recognised in the income statement.
5.1 Movements in net debt Net debt reflects the Groups cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and derivatives associated with debt instruments.
This definition facilitates an accurate reflection of the estimated settlement at maturity and is consistent with reporting by other companies.
1 January Non-cash Currency 31 December 2013 items Cash flow translation 2013 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents including held for sale 86.9 11.5 1.4 74.0 Bank overdrafts 0.2 0.2 Net cash 86.7 11.3 1.4 74.0 Bank loans due in more than one year 178.3 117.8 0.9 61.4 Bonds due in more than one year 482.8 9.7 4.0 469.1 Borrowings 661.1 9.7 117.8 3.1 530.5 Derivative assets associated with borrowings 26.5 12.1 14.4 Derivative liabilities associated with borrowings 5.5 1.5 2.7 1.3 Net debt 553.4 0.9 109.2 1.7 443.4 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93
