Financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements at 31 December 2013 1.
Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented in compliance with the requirements for companies whose shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
They have been prepared on a going concern basis, under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and United Kingdom accounting standards.
The Company financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors for issue on 28 February 2014.
The Company has utilised the exemptions provided under FRS 1 revised and has not presented a cash flow statement.
A consolidated cash flow statement has been presented in the UBM plc consolidated financial statements.
The UBM plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 contain financial instrument disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
As these disclosures would also comply with the disclosures required by FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the Company has elected as permitted in paragraph 2D of FRS 29 not to present separate financial instrument disclosures for theCompany.
Significant accounting policies Foreign currencies Foreign currency transactions arising from operating activities are translated from local currency into Pounds Sterling at the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the period end exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains or losses are credited or charged to the profit and loss account as they arise.
Investments Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
The Company reviews investments for impairment if events orchanges in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The Company assesses whether such indicators exist ateach reporting date.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
Where the recoverable amount of the investment is less than the carrying amount, an impairment is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Financial instruments Financial instruments in the scope of FRS 26 are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, or available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
Financial liabilities in the scope of FRS 26 are classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost borrowings, amounts owed to subsidiaries and other creditors.
When financial instruments are recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, and in the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, after taking account of directly attributable transaction costs.
All bank and other loans are initially recognised at fair value, being the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the loans.
After initial recognition, bank and other loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost and any difference between the proceeds and redemption value is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactionsor events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more, tax, withthe following exceptions: provision is made for taxable gains arising from the revaluation and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets that have been rolled over into replacement assets, only to the extent that there is a binding agreement to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into replacement assets and charged to tax only where the replacement assets are sold: provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable: and deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period on which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Share-based payments Where a parent company grants rights to its equity instruments to employees of a subsidiary, and such share-based compensation is accounted foras equity-settled in the consolidated financial statements of the parent, the subsidiary is required to record an expense for such compensation inaccordance with FRS 20 Share-based payments, with a corresponding increase recognised in equity as a contribution from the parent.
Consequently, the Company has recognised an addition to investments in subsidiaries of the aggregate amount of these contributions that accrued in the year of 3.7m 2012: 5.5m with a corresponding credit to equity shareholders funds.
Full details of share-based payments transactions are provided in Note 7.3 of the Group financial statements.
126 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
