GLOSSARY OF TERMS The following fide!nitions and terms are used throughout this Annual Report.
Inaddition, speci!c terms and fide!nitions relating to mineral reserves andresources can be found on page 90.
ABG or the African Barrick Gold plc, a company Concentrate a !ne, powdery product of the milling process Company incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 containing a high percentage of valuable metal and registered in England and Wales with Contained ounces represents total ounces in a mineral reserve before registered number 7123187 reduction to account for ounces not able to be ABG Group the Company and its subsidiary undertakings recovered by the applicable metallurgical process or the Group Co-product a secondary metal or mineral product recovered in AGM annual general meeting the milling process such as copper and silver Articles the articles of association of the Company CREST the computerised settlement system operated by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited to facilitate the AISC has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS transfer of title to shares in uncerti!cated form measures below Crushing breaking of ore from the size delivered from the Assay a chemical test performed on a sample of mine into smaller and more uniform fragments to ores or minerals to determine the amount be then fed to grinding mills or to a leach pad of valuable metals contained CSR corporate social responsibility Au gold Cu copper Average head average ore grade fed into the mill, expressed in grade grammes per metric tonne Cut-and-!ll a method of stoping in which ore is removed in slices, or lifts, and then the excavation is !lled with Average realised has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS rock or other waste material back!ll, before the gold price per measures below subsequent slice is extracted ounce sold Cut-off grade the minimum metal grade at which material can Barrick Barrick Gold Corporation, a company existing under beeconomically mined and processed used in the the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada calculation of ore reserves, expressed in grammes per metric tonne Barrick Group Barrick and its subsidiary undertakings Development work carried out for the purpose of opening up a Board the board of directors of ABG mineral deposit.
In an underground mine this Cash cost per has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS includes shaft sinking, crosscutting, drifting and ounce sold measures below raising.
In an open pit mine, development includes the removal of overburden Cash cost per has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS tonne milled measures below Directors the directors of ABG for the reporting period, details of whom are set out on pages 40 and 41 China National means China National Gold Group Corporation of this Annual Report Gold or CNG Disclosure and the disclosure and transparency rules made by the CIL carbon in leach, a method of recovering gold and Transparency FSA under Part VI of FSMA silver, in which a slurry of gold silver bearing ore, Rules carbon and cyanide are mixed together.
The cyanide dissolves the gold, which is subsequently Dollar or US$ or $ United States dollars absorbed by the activated carbon whose base is Dor dor bullion is an impure alloy of gold and silver usually ground coconut shells and is generally the !final product of mining and CIM the Canadian Institute of Mining, Metallurgy processing: the dor bullion will be transported to and Petroleum be re!ned to high purity metal Code of Conduct ABGs Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Drift a horizontal underground opening that follows along the length of a vein or rock formation as Companies Act the Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales, opposed to a crosscut which crosses the 2006 as amended rock formation 162 www.
"com GLOSSARY OF TERMS Drift-and-!ll a method of underground mining used for ""at-lying ISO International Standards Organisation mineralisation or where ground conditions are Koz thousand ounces lesscompetent KPIs key performance indicators Drilling: core a drilling method that uses a rotating barrel and an annular-shaped, diamond-impregnated rock-cutting Kt thousand metric tonnes bit to produce cylindrical rock cores and lift such cores to the surface, where they may be collected, LIBOR The British Bankers Association Interest examined and assayed Settlement Rate for the relevant currency and period displayed on the appropriate page of the Drilling: in-!ll any method of drilling intervals between existing Reuters screen holes, used to provide greater geological detail and to help establish reserve estimates Listing Rules the rules relating to admission to the Of!cial List made inaccordance with section 73A 2 of FSMA Drilling: reverse drilling method that uses a rotating cutting bit circulation within a double-walled drill pipe and produces rock London Stock London Stock Exchange plc chips rather than core."
Air or water is circulated Exchange or LSE down to the bit between the inner and outer wall of Long-hole stoping a method of underground mining involving the the drill pipe.
The chips are forced to the surface drilling of holes up to 30 meters or longer into an through the centre of the drill pipe and are ore bearing zone and then blasting a slice of rock collected, examined and assayed which falls into an open space.
"The broken rock is EBITDA has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS extracted and the resulting open chamber may or measures below may not be !lled with supporting material EPO Environmental Protection Order Majority Barrick Shareholder Executive as at year end, the executive director of the Director s Company, Brad Gordon MDA a mineral development agreement MDN MDN Inc. a company existing under the laws of the Exploration prospecting, sampling, mapping, diamond drilling Province of Qubec and other work involved in searching for ore Mill a plant in which ore is treated and metals are Financial Services the Financial Services Authority of the Authority or FSA recovered or prepared for smelting: also a revolving United Kingdom drum used for the grinding of ores in preparation Flotation a milling process in which valuable mineral for treatment particles areinduced to become attached to Moz million ounces bubbles and ""oat as otherssink FSMA the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Mt million metric tonnes as amended NGOs non-governmental organisations Grade the amount of metal in each tonne of ore, NI 43-101 Canadian National Instrument 43-101 expressed as troy ounces per tonne or grams per tonne for precious metals and as a percentage Non-Executive the Non-Executive Directors of the Company being for most other metals Directors as at year end Kelvin Dushnisky, Peter Tomsett, Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu, Andre Falzon, g t gram per metric tonne David Hodgson, Michael Kenyon, Graham Clow, Steve Lucas, Rachel English, Rick McCreary, IAS International Accounting Standards Stephen Galbraith IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards, Of!cial List the Of!cial List of the Financial as adopted for use in the European Union Services Authority IPO ABGs initial public offering on the Main Market of Open pit a mine where the minerals are mined entirely from the London Stock Exchange the surface."
"Also referred to as open-cut or open-cast mine Annual Report and Accounts 2013 163 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED Operational cash has the meaning given to it under non-IFRS SLT or Senior the individuals listed on page 42 ""ow per share measures below Leadership Team or Senior Operational the operational review undertaken by ABG to Management Review enhance operational performance and cost Shaft a vertical or inclined excavation in rock for the controls purpose of providing access to an ore body."
Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each in the capital Usually equipped with a hoist at the top, which of the Company lowers and raises a conveyance for handling workers and materials Ore rock, generally containing metallic or non-metallic minerals, which can be mined and processed Shareholders holders of Ordinary Shares at a pro!t Spot or the purchase price of a commodity at the current Ore body a suf!ciently large amount of ore that can be spot price price, normally at a discount to the long-term mined economically contract price Overburden is the material that lies above the area of Stripping removal of overburden or waste rock overlying economic interest, such as soil and ancillary an ore body in preparation for mining by material, that is removed during surface mining open-pit methods Oxide ore mineralised rock in which some of the original Tailings the material that remains after all economically minerals have been oxidised.
Oxidation tends and technically recoverable precious metals have to make the ore more amenable to cyanide been removed from the ore during processing solutions so that minute particles of gold Tailings storage a natural or man-made con!ned area suitable for will be readily dissolved facility depositing the material that remains after the Oz troy ounce 31.1035g treatment of ore PGI Pangea Gold!elds Inc. a Canadian subsidiary TANESCO Tanzanian Electric Supply Company Limited of ABG TRA Tanzanian Revenue Authority Pre-IPO the reorganisation of the companies comprising TRIFR total reportable injury frequency rate Reorganisation the ABG Group into a separate corporate group prior to the IPO Tulawaka the joint venture agreement dated 15 September Agreement 1998 asamended from time to time between Reclamation the process by which lands disturbed as a result PGI and MDN of mining activity are modi!ed to support bene!cial land use.
Reclamation activity may include the TZS Tanzanian shilling removal of buildings, equipment, machinery and other physical remnants of mining, closure of UK Corporate the UK Corporate Governance Code dated tailings storage facilities, leach pads and other Governance Code September 2012 issued by the UK Financial mine features, and contouring, covering and Reporting Council re-vegetation of waste rock and other United Kingdom the United Kingdom of Great Britain and disturbed areas or UK Northern Ireland Recovery rate a term used in process metallurgy to indicate the United States or the United States of America, its territories and proportion of valuable material physically recovered US possessions, any state of the United States of in theprocessing of ore.
It is generally stated as a America andthe District of Columbia percentage of the material recovered compared to the total material originally present VAT value-added tax Re!ning the !final stage of metal production in which VBIAs village bene!t implementation agreements impurities are removed from the molten metal VBAs village bene!t agreements Relationship the relationship agreement between Barrick Agreement and ABG Voluntary means the Voluntary Principles on Security Principles and Human Rights ROM run-of-mine, a term used loosely to describe ore of average grade Services the services agreement between Barrick and ABG Agreement 164 www.
com GLOSSARY OF TERMS Non-IFRS measures All-in sustaining cost AISC is a non-IFRS !financial measure.
The ABG has identi!ed certain measures in this report that are not measure is in accordance with the World Gold Councils guidance measures fide!ned under IFRS.
Non-IFRS !financial measures disclosed by issued in June 2013.
It is calculated by taking the aggregate of cash management are provided as additional information to investors in order costs, corporate administration costs, reclamation and remediation to provide them with an alternative method for assessing ABGs !financial costs for operating mines, corporate social responsibility expenses, condition and operating results.
These measures are not in accordance mine exploration and study costs, capitalised stripping and underground with, or a substitute for, IFRS, and may be different from or inconsistent development costs and sustaining capital expenditure.
This is then with non-IFRS !financial measures used by other companies.
These divided by the total ounces sold.
A reconciliation between cash cost measures are explained further below.
per ounce sold and AISC is presented below: Year ended 31 December 2013 Average realised gold price per ounce sold is a non-IFRS !financial measure which excludes from gold revenue: ABG Group North ongoing Unrealised gains and losses on non-hedge derivative contracts: US$ oz sold Bulyanhulu Mara Buzwagi operations Unrealised mark-to-market gains and losses on provisional pricing Cash cost per ounce sold 890 659 945 812 from copper and gold sales contracts: and Corporate administration 72 38 51 50 Export duties.
Rehabilitation 7 29 15 18 Cash cost per ounce sold is a non-IFRS !financial measure.
Cash costs Mine exploration 3 12 2 6 include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, by-product CSR expenses 6 31 4 19 credits and production taxes, and exclude capitalised production Capitalised development 233 251 321 266 stripping costs, inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised gains losses from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, Sustaining capital 133 207 168 175 depreciation and amortisation and corporate social responsibility Total continuing operations 1,344 1,277 1,506 1,346 charges.
Cash cost is calculated net of co-product revenue.
Discontinued operations 16 The presentation of these statistics in this manner allows ABG to Total 1,362 monitor and manage those factors that impact production costs on a monthly basis.
ABG calculates cash costs based on its equity interest Year ended 31 December 2012 in production from its mines.
Cash cost per ounce sold are calculated ABG Group by dividing the aggregate of these costs by gold ounces sold.
Cash costs North ongoing US$ oz sold Bulyanhulu Mara Buzwagi operations and cash cost per ounce sold are calculated on a consistent basis for the periods presented.
Cash cost per ounce sold 803 953 1,066 922 Corporate administration 75 78 78 83 The table below provides a reconciliation between cost of sales and total Rehabilitation 10 48 23 26 cash cost to calculate the cash cost per ounce sold.
Mine exploration 9 31 6 16 Year ended CSR expenses 5 39 8 23 31 December 1 US$000 2013 2012 Capitalised development 194 151 254 196 Total cost of sales 713,806 720,036 Sustaining capital 149 393 363 296 Deduct: depreciation and amortisation 147,979 139,615 Total continuing operations 1,245 1,693 1,798 1,561 Deduct: co-product revenue 43,014 47,888 Discontinued operations 24 Total cash cost 522,813 532,533 Total 1,585 US$ Oz 2 AISC is intended to provide additional information for what the total Total ounces sold 643,597 577,332 sustaining cost for each ounce sold is, taking into account expenditure Cash cost per ounce 812 922 incurred in addition to direct mining costs, depreciation and selling costs.
Additional contribution from discontinued operations 15 19 EBITDA is a non-IFRS !financial measure.
ABG calculates EBITDA as net Attributable cash cost per ounce 827 941 pro!t or loss for the period excluding: 1 Restated for the impact of capitalised stripping due to the adoption of IFRIC 20 Income tax expense: and the classi!cation of Tulawaka as a discontinued operation.
"Finance expense: 2 Re""ects 100% of ounces sold from continuing operations."
Finance income: Depreciation and amortisation: and Impairment charges of goodwill and other long-lived assets Annual Report and Accounts 2013 165 GLOSSARY OF TERMS CONTINUED EBITDA is intended to provide additional information to investors and Adjusted net earnings per share is a non-IFRS !financial measure and is analysts.
It does not have any standardised meaning prescribed by calculated by dividing adjusted net earnings by the weighted average IFRS and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS.
EBITDA Cash cost per tonne milled is a non-IFRS !financial measure.
"Cash costs excludes the impact of cash costs of !nancing activities and taxes, and include all costs absorbed into inventory, as well as royalties, by-product the effects of changes in operating working capital balances, and credits and production taxes, and exclude capitalised production therefore is not necessarily indicative of operating pro!t or cash ""ow stripping costs, inventory purchase accounting adjustments, unrealised from operations as determined under IFRS."
Other companies may gains losses from non-hedge currency and commodity contracts, calculate EBITDA differently.
depreciation and amortisation and corporate social responsibility A reconciliation between net pro!t for the period and EBITDA is charges.
ABG presented below: calculates cash costs based on its equity interest in production from its mines.
Cash costs per tonne milled are calculated by dividing the Year ended aggregate of these costs by total tonnes milled.
Cash cost is calculated 31 December net of co-product revenue.
ABG calculates cash costs based on its 1 US$000 Unaudited 2013 2012 equity interest in production from its mines.
Cash cost per tonne milled is Net loss pro!t for the period 798,433 51,493 calculated by dividing the aggregate of these costs by total tonnes milled.
Plus income tax credit expense 187,959 72,604 Operating cash ow per share is a non-IFRS !financial measure and is Plus depreciation and amortisation 157,820 159,446 calculated by dividing Net cash generated by operating activities by the Plus: Impairment charges write-offs 1,061,011 44,536 weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Plus !finance expense 9,668 10,305 Mining statistical information Less !finance income 1,700 2,102 The following describes certain line items used in the ABG Groups EBITDA 240,407 336,282 discussion of key performance indicators: Open pit material mined measures in tonnes the total amount 1 Restated for the impact of capitalised stripping due to the adoption of IFRIC 20. of open pit ore and waste mined.
"EBIT is a non-IFRS !financial measure and re""ects EBITDA adjusted for Underground ore tonnes hoisted measures in tonnes the total depreciation and amortisation and goodwill impairment charges."
amount of underground ore mined and hoisted.
Total tonnes mined includes open pit material plus underground Adjusted net earnings is a non-IFRS !financial measure.
It is calculated by ore tonnes hoisted.
excluding one-off costs or credits relating to non-routine transactions from net pro!t attributed to owners of the parent.
It includes other credit and Strip ratio measures the ratio waste to ore for open pit charges that, individually or in aggregate, if of a similar type, are of a nature material mined.
or size that requires explanation in order to provide additional insight into Ore milled measures in tonnes the amount of ore material the underlying business performance.
Head grade measures the metal content of mined ore going into Adjusted net earnings and adjusted earnings per share have been a mill for processing.
calculated by excluding the following: Milled recovery measures the proportion of valuable metal Year ended physically recovered in the processing of ore.
It is generally stated 31 December as a percentage of the metal recovered compared to the total metal 1 US$000 Unaudited 2013 2012 originally present.
Net loss earnings 781,101 62,780 Total production costs measures the total cost of production and Adjusted for: is an aggregate of total cash costs as well as production speci!c depreciation and amortisation.
Impairment charges 1,061,011 44,536 Operational review charges 13,251 Basis of preparation for the reporting of tax data Tulawaka non-operational costs, including This basis of preparation supports the reporting of tax data contained fide-recognition of deferred tax 35,418 onpage 34 of this Annual Report.
Generally the references to Tax in this context mean any amount of money required to be paid to, or repaid CNG related costs 4,145 6,676 by, agovernment.
Discounting of indirect taxes 1,375 4,185 Prior year Bulyanhulu tax positions recognised 8,855 Tax impact of the above 227,822 18,239 Adjusted net earnings 106,277 108,793 1 Restated for the impact of capitalised stripping due to the adoption of IFRIC 20.
com GLOSSARY OF TERMS In overview, the key information presented as regards Tax is as follows: Withholding taxes collected from suppliers these comprise taxes that arerequired to be withheld in advance on payments made to suppliers.
"Taxes borne these are taxes that the ABG Group is obliged to pay to a Typically, these taxes would be re""ected in income tax returns made government on its own behalf, or taxes that it is obliged to pay to a third to governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular party and that can cannot be recovered from a government."
The main basis often monthly throughout the year shortly after the submission taxes that we have included in this category are: ofthe return.
Government royalties these comprise payments made to governments Taxes refunded these are taxes that are refunded by governments inthe form of royalties.
Typically these tend to become payable, and to ABG.
These mostly comprise the following: arepaid, in the year to which they relate.
These taxes form part of our operating costs.
Indirect taxes mainly VAT and fuel levies typically, indirect taxes would tend to become repayable and are repaid by governments Corporate income tax this comprises any tax on the business regularly often quarterly throughout the year, shortly after the calculated on the basis of its pro!ts, income or capital gains.
Typically, submission of relevant sales tax returns.
"Also included are other these taxes would be re""ected in corporate income tax returns made refunds received."
Customs duties these comprise all customs excise import and export duties.
Typically, these taxes tend to become payable and are paid to governments at the point where goods are imported and exported fromterritories.
These taxes form part of our operating and capital incurred costs.
Employer payroll taxes these comprise payroll and employer taxes payable as a result of a companys capacity as an employer.
"Typically, thesetaxes would be re""ected in payroll tax returns made to governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year shortly after the submission of the return."
Environmental taxes these comprise levies or other payments to governments relating to environmental policy.
Typically, these taxes tend to be payable on an annual basis.
These taxes are also included inouroperating costs.
Indirect taxes these comprise VAT and other fuel levies that arise on thepurchase of goods and services and are paid to third parties, to be refunded by governments.
Typically, these taxes would form part of a salestax return made to governments.
Refunds received are included in the taxes refunded category.
Stamp duty this comprises taxes that arise on transfers of assets or capital.
"Typically, these taxes would be re""ected in stamp duty returns made to governments and tend to become payable, and are paid, togovernments shortly after capital or assets are transferred."
Taxes collected these are taxes that a company is obliged to collect fromothers and pay to government.
The main taxes that we have included in this category are: Employee payroll taxes these comprise payroll and employee taxes withheld from employee remuneration and paid to governments, i. e. taxes collected by ABG and remitted to governments on behalf of employees under arrangements such as PAYE schemes.
"Typically, these taxes would be re""ected in payroll tax returns made to governments and tend to be payable, and are paid, on a regular basis often monthly throughout the year, shortly after submission of the return."
