STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES ANNUAL ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Directors are required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the CivilCode in Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her the Netherlands and the UK Companies Act 2006 to prepare knowledge: accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, the state of affairs ofthe Unilever Group, and the NV and PLC balanced and understandable, and provides the information entities, as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, and cash flows for that year.
business model and strategy: The financial statements which have been prepared in The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts, theGroup accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as and the NV and PLC entities have used the most appropriate adopted by the EU and as issued by the International Accounting accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by Standards Board in the case of the consolidated financial reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and thatall statements and UK accounting standards in the case of the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU PLC parent company accounts and UK accounting standards andas issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and Part 9 ofBook 2 of the Dutch Civil Code in the case of the NV inthecase of the consolidated financial statements, UK parent company accounts, give a true and fair view of the accounting standards in the case of the parent company accounts assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the and Dutch law in the case of the NV parent company accounts Group and theNV and PLC entities taken as a whole: and which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position ofthe Group The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that NV and PLC and the NV and PLC entities taken as a whole, together with a keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
their financial position and which enable the Directors to ensure that the accounts comply with the relevant legislation.
They also The Directors and their roles are listed on pages 40 and 42. have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open tothem to safeguard the assets of the Group, GOING CONCERN and to prevent and detectfraud and other irregularities.
The activities of the Group, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance, the financial position This statement, which should be read in conjunction with the of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing Independent Auditors reports, ismade with a view to facilities are described inthe Strategic Report on pages 2 to 33.
In distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of addition, we describe in notes 15 to 18 on pages 115 to 129 the the Directors andoftheauditors in relation to the accounts.
Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its A copy of the financial statements of the Unilever Group is financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to placedonour website at www.
The credit and liquidity risk.
maintenance and integrity of the website are the responsibility of the Directors, and the work carried out by the auditors does not The Group has considerable financial resources together with involve consideration of these matters.
Accordingly, the auditors established business relationships with many customers and accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to suppliers in countries throughout the world.
As a consequence, the financial statements since they were initially placed on the the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its website.
Legislation in the UK and the Netherlands governing the business risks successfully despite the current uncertain outlook.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in UK law sets out additional responsibilities for the Directors of PLC operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they regarding disclosure of information to auditors.
Disclosure in continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this Annual respect of these responsibilities is made on page 50.
INTERNAL AND DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Please refer to pages 34 to 39 for a discussion of Unilevers principal risk factors and to pages 36 to 39 for commentary on the Groups approach to risk management and control.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements 85
