CORPORATE STRATEGIC GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT REPORT STATEMENTS INFORMATION DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Directors Responsibility Statement applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such by t he EU, g iv e a t rue and fa ir v ie w of th e a s se ts, Comp an y a n d t he un d er tak in gs i nclud ed i n t h e conso lidation t ak en as a w hole: a nd Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the Dire c tor s R e po rt, incl ud es a f a ir r ev iew of the statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally development and performance of the business and the Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting position of the Company and the undertakings included Standards and Applicable Law.
Under company law the in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are description of the principal risks and uncertainties th at the y f ace.
By o rd er of t h e B o ard statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: MS Mehta present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with DD Jalan enable users to understand the impact of particular 15 May 2013 transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and legislation in other jurisdictions.
111 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 vedantaresources.
