Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty first Annual General Meeting AGM of Victrex plc the Company will be held at 11am on 4February 2014, at the Andaz Hotel, Liverpool Street, London, EC2M 7QN, to transact the business set out below.
Resolutions 1 to 15 willbeproposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 16 to 18 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To receive the audited financial statements and the auditors and Directors reports for the year ended 30 September 2013.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report other than the part containing the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year ended 30September 2013.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy contained in the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013.
To declare a final dividend of 32.65p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of 1p in respect of the year ended 30 September 2013.
To re-elect Ms A M Frew as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr G F B Kerr as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr P J M fide Smedt as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr L C Pentz as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Dr P J Kirby as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr D R Hummel as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr T J Cooper as a Director of the Company.
To elect Ms L Burdett as a Director of the Company.
To appoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
That the Board be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company: a up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 282,619: and b up to a further maximum aggregate nominal amount of 282,619 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate todeal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter.
Such authorities to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 31 March 2015 but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority ends and the Board may allot shares orgrant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
That, conditional upon resolution 15 being passed, the Board be and hereby is given power to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the 2006 Act for cash under the authority given by that resolution and or where the allotment is treated as an allotment of equity securities under section 560 2 b of the 2006 Act, free of the restriction in section 561 1 of the 2006 Act, such power to be limited: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but, in the case of the authority granted under paragraph b of resolution 15, by way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate todeal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and b in the case of the authority granted under paragraph a of resolution 15 and or in the case of any transfer of treasury shares which is treated as an allotment of equity securities under section 560 3 of the 2006 Act, to the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a above of equity securities up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 42,392.
Such power to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 31 March 2015 but during this period the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power ends and the Board may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended.
94 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 17.
That the Company be and is hereby authorised generally and unconditionally pursuant to section 701 of the 2006 Act to make one or more market purchases as defined in section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of its ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, such power to be limited: a to a maximum aggregate number of 8,478,583 Ordinary Shares: b by the condition that the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share contracted to be purchased on any day shall be the higher of: i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Ordinary Share iscontracted to be purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange atthetime the purchase is carried out: and c by the condition that the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 1p exclusive of expenses.
Such power to apply until the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 31 March 2015 but so that the Company may enter into a new contract under which a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the authority ends and the Company may purchase Ordinary Shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority had not ended.
That a general meeting of the Company, other than an AGM, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board S Koncarevic Company Secretary 9 December 2013 www.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 95 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes 1.
Shareholders who are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6pm on 2 February 2014 or, in the event of any adjournment 6pm on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
A hard copy form of proxy Form of Proxy which may be used to appoint a proxy and give instructions accompanies this Annual Report.
To be valid, a Form of Proxy must be delivered to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6GT so as to be received by no later than 11am on 2 February 2014.
Alternatively, shareholders may appoint a proxy online by following the instructions in note 4 below.
Shareholders who hold their shares in uncertificated form may also use the CREST voting service to appoint a proxy electronically as explained in notes 5 to 7 below.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy, electronic proxy appointment instruction or any CREST Proxy Instruction will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through Equinitis website at www.
Full details of the procedure are given on the website.
The Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number printed on the Form of Proxy will be required in order to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
Alternatively, members who have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging onto their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on the Vote Online link.
The on-screen instructions give details of how to complete the proxy appointment process.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 11am on 2 February 2014.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent Equiniti ID RA19 by 11am on 2 February 2014.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, wher e applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member isaCREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights aNominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right tobe appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Such rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
96 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 9.
As at 6 December 2013 being the last business day prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 84,785,830 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 6 December 2013 were 84,785,830.
There were no shares in treasury as at that date.
Under section 527 of the 2006 Act shareholder meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require theCompany to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the Companys financial statements including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the 2006 Act.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
Thebusiness which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the2006 Act to publish on a website.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business of the meeting.
In accordance with section 319A of the 2006 Act and subject to some exceptions, the Company must cause any such questions to be answered.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the 2006 Act, can be found at www.
Under section 338 and section 338A of the 2006 Act, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: a to give, to shareholders of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or b to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment ortheCompanys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter tobe included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 24 December 2013, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending thegeneral meeting.
Please contact our Registrar if you need any further guidance on this.
You may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice of AGM or any related documents including the proxy form tocommunicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company from the date of this notice until the time of the AGM and at the meeting location from 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends: the executive Directors service contracts: and letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 97 Explanatory notes Resolution 1 Annual Report The Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors of a public company to lay its Annual Report before the company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
The Annual Report comprises the Audited Financial Statements, the auditors report, the Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and, for the first time this year, the Directors Strategic Report.
In accordance with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company proposes, as an ordinary resolution, a resolution on its Annual Report.
Resolution 2 Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company proposes an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2013.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 48 to 61 of the Annual Report and, for the purposes of this resolution, does not include the parts of the Directors Remuneration Report containing the Directors Remuneration Policy which is set out on pages 49 to 53.
The vote on this resolution is advisory only and the Directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on its being passed.
Resolution 3 Approval of the Directors Remuneration Policy For the first time this year and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company proposes an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy contained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The proposed policy is set out on pages 49 to 53 of the AnnualReport.
The vote on Resolution 3 is a binding vote and, if passed, will mean that the Directors can only make remuneration payments inaccordance with the approved policy.
The Company is required to ensure that a vote on its remuneration policy takes place annually unless theapproved policy remains unchanged, in which case the Company will propose a similar resolution at least every three years.
Resolution 4 Declaration of final dividend A final dividend of 32.65p per ordinary share has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2013.
In accordance with the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
If approved, thedividend will be paid on 21 February 2014 to shareholders on the register at 6.00pm on 7 February 2014.
Resolutions 5 to 12 Re-election and election of Directors In accordance with the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code all Directors shall retire from office at the AGM and offer themselves for election or re-election.
Each of Resolutions 5 to 12 shall be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
Biographical details of all of our Directors areset out onpages 38 and 39.
The Board considers each non-executive Director to be independent and the Chairman confirms that, following formal evaluation as referred to on page 44, each Director standing for re-election continues to contribute effectively to the Board and to demonstrate commitment to the role including commitment of time for Board and Board Committee meetings.
Resolutions 13 and 14 Appointment of auditor auditors remuneration At each meeting at which the Annual Report is laid, the Company is required to appoint an auditor to serve until the next such meeting.
KPMG Audit Plc have notified the Company that they are not seeking re-appointment.
It is proposed that KPMG LLP be appointed auditor of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts arelaid before the Company.
Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution giving the Directors discretion to determine KPMGs remuneration.
Resolution 15 Authority to allot shares The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot shares.
Accordingly, in line with the Companys usual procedure, which isalso standard practice amongst other public companies, this ordinary resolution seeks authority for the Directors to issue shares until the conclusion of next years AGM of the Company or 31 March 2015, if sooner.
In accordance with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers, the proposed authority will allow the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares up to an amount equal to less than one third of the existing share capital, plus in the case of a rights issue only a further amount uptoan additional one third of the Companys existing issued share capital.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
The Company held no treasury shares as at 6 December 2013.
Resolution 16 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existing shareholders When shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current shareholding.
Otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer, this special resolution will enable the Directors to allotshares for cash up to a nominal amount of 42,392, representing approximately 5% of the current issued ordinary share capital, otherthan to existing shareholders in order to take advantage of opportunities as and when they arise.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority and confirm their intention that not more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital will be allottedon a non pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period, in compliance with the guidelines issued by investors bodies.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the next AGM of the Company or 31 March 2015, if sooner.
98 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
com Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Resolution 17 Authority to purchase own shares In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 17 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired less than 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the date of this document and the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in this way will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly, or be held as treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, resold or used to provide shares for employee share schemes.
As at 6 December 2013, options over a total of 1,302,262 Ordinary Shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of Ordinary Shares represents 1.54% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at 6 December 2013.
It would represent 1.71% of the issued Ordinary Share capital if the authority to buy the Companys own shares had been used in full that date.
The authority will lapse at the earlier ofthe next AGM of the Company or 31 March 2015, if sooner.
Resolution 18 Authority to hold general meetings other than annual AGMs on 14 clear days notice This special resolution renews an authority given at last years AGM and is required as a result of section 307A of the 2006 Act coming into force.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice and would like to maintain this ability.
In order to do so, the Companys shareholders must approve the calling of such meetings on 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will beproposed.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation The Directors consider that all the proposed resolutions set out in this Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and of its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings of shares in the Company.
com Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 99
