Directors responsibilities statement Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the  statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Directors responsibilities for the The Directors are responsible for keeping preparation oftheAnnual Report adequate accounting records that are sufficient Directors responsibilities statement Company law requires the Directors to to show and explain the Parent Companys in respect oftheAnnualReport prepare Group and Parent Company financial transactions and disclose with reasonable We confirm that to the best statements for each financial year.
Under that accuracy atany time the financial position ofourknowledge: law they are required to prepare the Group ofthe Parent Company and enablethem to the financial statements, prepared in financial statements in accordance with ensure that its financial statements comply accordance with the applicable set of International Financial Reporting Standards withtheCompanies Act 2006.
They have accounting standards, give a true and IFRS as adopted by the European Union general responsibility for taking such steps fairview of the assets, liabilities, EU and applicable law and have elected asare reasonably open to them to safeguard financial position and profit or toprepare the Parent Company financial theassets of the Group and to prevent and lossofthe Company andthe statements on the same basis.
undertakings included in Under company law the Directors must Under applicable law and regulations theconsolidation taken notapprove the financial statements unless theDirectors are alsoresponsible for asawhole:and they are satisfied that they give atrue and preparinga Directors Report, Directors the management report, which fair view of the state of affairs of the Group Remuneration Report and Corporate comprises the Directors Report and Parent Company and of their profit or Governance statement thatcomply with andthe Strategic Report, includes loss for that period.
The Directors afair review of the development areresponsible for the maintenance and In preparing each of the Group and Parent andperformance of the business integrity of the corporate and financial Company financial statements, the Directors andposition of the issuer information included on the Companys are required to: andtheundertakings included website.
Legislation in the UK governing intheconsolidation as a whole, select suitable accounting policies thepreparation and dissemination of together with a description of andapply them consistently: financial statementsmay differ from theprincipal risksand the legislation inotherjurisdictions.
make judgements and estimates that uncertaintiesthat they face.
arereasonable andprudent: The Board considers that the Annual Report The Directors of Victrex plc are and financial statements, taken on a whole, state whether they have been prepared detailed onpages 38 and 39. are fair, balanced and understandable inaccordance withIFRS as adopted by andprovide the information necessary theEU: and forshareholders to assess the Groups prepare the financial statements on performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board thegoing concern basisunless it is inappropriate to presume that the Groupand Parent Company will continuein business.
Steve Barrow Finance Director 9 December 2013 64 Victrex plc Annual Report 2013 www.
