Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters All of the non-executive directors who served during the year and Introduction from the Chairman up to the date of this report are considered by the Board to be The Board of the Company is committed to achieving the highest independent.
As Chairman, my role is to The Board met nine times during the year.
It is expected that all run the Board to ensure that the Company operates effectively directors attend Board meetings, Committee meetings and the and ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills and Annual General Meeting AGM unless they are prevented from experience to assess, manage and mitigate risks.
doing so by prior commitments.
The minimum time commitment This report, which forms part of the Directors Report and expected from the non-executive directors is one day per month includes the Directors Remuneration Report, provides details of attendance at meetings, together with attendance at the AGM, how the Company has applied the principles of and complied with Board away days and site visits, plus adequate preparation time.
the UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010 the Code.
A copy Where directors are unable to attend meetings, they receive the of the Code is available publicly from www.
The FRC papers for that meeting giving them the opportunity to raise any has issued a revised version of the Code which applies to financial issues and give any comments to the Chairman in advance of the years commencing on or after 1 October 2012.
We will report fully meeting.
Following the meeting the Chairman briefs any director on this new version of the Code for the first time in our annual not present on the discussions and any decisions taken at the report and accounts 2014.
We have chosen to apply and report meeting.
The following table shows the number of Board early on certain of the new provisions this year.
The Board meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2013 and the confirms that the Company has, except as explained in this attendance record of individual directors.
report, complied with the applicable principles of the Code Number of throughout the financial year ended 31 August 2013.
This report meetings also includes the information that is required by Disclosure and Board membership attended Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys Henry Staunton 9 of 9 Corporate governance statement.
Suzanne Baxter 5 of 5 henry Staunton Walker Boyd 9 of 9 Chairman Stephen Clarke 9 of 9 10 October 2013 Annemarie Durbin 6 of 6 Mike Ellis 4 of 4 Board of Directors Drummond Hall 9 of 9 As at the date of this report, the Board comprised the Chairman, Robert Moorhead 9 of 9 two executive directors and three independent non-executive Kate Swann 6 of 7 directors.
Short biographies of each of these directors, which a Suzanne Baxter was appointed as a director of the Company on 4 February 2013. illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 30.
There b Walker Boyd resigned as a director of the Company on 31 August 2013. is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company: c Annemarie Durbin was appointed as a director of the Company on 3 December 2012.
Henry Staunton Chairman being responsible for running the d Mike Ellis resigned as a director of the Company on 23 January 2013.
Board and Stephen Clarke Group Chief Executive being e Kate Swann resigned as a director of the Company on 30 June 2013. responsible for implementing strategy.
Henry Staunton performed the role of Senior Independent Director until his The Board has met twice since 31 August 2013 and all the current appointment as Chairman of the Company on 1 September 2013. directors attended both meetings.
Drummond Hall was appointed as Senior Independent Director The Board manages the Company through a formal schedule on 1 September 2013.
The Board structure ensures that no ofmatters reserved for its decision.
These include overall individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
management of the Company: approval of strategic plans All the directors whose biographies are on page 30 served including acquisitions and disposals: approval of the Companys throughout the period except as follows: commercial strategy and operating and capital expenditure budgets: approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, Annemarie Durbin was appointed as a non-executive director on material agreements and non-recurring projects: treasury policy: 3 December 2012. control, audit and risk management: executive remuneration: and Suzanne Baxter was appointed as a non-executive director on corporate responsibility.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Other Board changes during the year were as follows: Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their Mike Ellis resigned as a non-executive director on 23 January duties.
The Board receives appropriate and timely information, 2013.
Board and Committee papers normally being sent out several Kate Swann resigned as an executive director on 30 June 2013. days before meetings take place.
Annemarie Durbin and Suzanne Baxter received induction training on joining the Board which was Walker Boyd resigned as a non-executive director on 31 August tailored to meet their needs to learn about the business, its 2013. markets and risks and included store visits and meetings with employees across the businesses and with external advisers.
The need for director training is regularly assessed by the Board.
WH Smith PLC 20 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 3 G Go ov ver ern nan ance ce 44 F Fi in nan anc ci ial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s The performance of the Board and its Committees is a at the AGM to be held on 22 January 2014.
Biographies of all the fundamental component of the Companys success.
The Board directors are set out on page 30 of this Annual Report and are regularly reviews its own performance and carried out a formal also available for viewing on the Companys website evaluation in September 2013.
The evaluation was conducted www.
internally, co-ordinated and directed by the Chairman, with the The Companys Articles of Association give a power to the Board support of the Company Secretary.
A questionnaire was prepared to appoint directors and, where notice is given and signed by all by the Chairman and the Company Secretary and formed the the other directors, to remove a director from office.
The basis of in-depth interviews with each director.
The main areas Companys Articles of Association themselves may be amended considered by the evaluation were performance, composition, by special resolution of the shareholders.
The results of the assessment were considered by the Board, and confirmed the strength of the The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the management of the Company, a sound governance framework share capital of the Company, along with details of directors and practices compliant with the Code.
As a result of the review, share options and awards, are contained in the Remuneration the Board agreed an action plan which included a number of report on pages 31 to 42. steps, given the recent Board changes, to build relationships and At no time during the year did any of the directors have a material improve its procedures and effectiveness.
interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its Annual reviews of the performance of the Audit, Nominations and subsidiaries.
Remuneration Committees have also been carried out as part of The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance the Board evaluation.
These reviews have confirmed that each which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against Committee continues to operate effectively.
The Company has also provided an indemnity for its The Group Chief Executive reviews the performance of the Chief directors, which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer and other senior the purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. executives.
The Chairman reviews the performance of the Group The Board delegates specific responsibilities to the Board Chief Executive and each non-executive director.
During the year, Committees detailed on the following pages, the role and Walker Boyd, while Chairman, had regular meetings with the responsibilities of each Committee being set out in formal terms non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, of reference which are available on the Companys website.
to discuss Board issues and how to build the best possible team.
The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Company and contributes to its governance and operations.
The Board had previously anticipated undertaking an externally-led board evaluation during the year, in accordance with the Code.
However, in the light of the significant Board changes that have occurred this year, the Board made the decision to defer the external evaluation until 2014.
The Board recognises the importance of provision B.
6.2 of the Code, but believes the scale and significance of the recent changes would have severely limited the value of an external evaluation this year.
It is the Boards intention to undertake an  evaluation of the Board in 2014.
As part of the Board evaluation process, and in line with provision B.
6.3 of the Code, the Senior Independent Director normally meets with the directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans performance during the year.
The directors did not assess the performance of Walker Boyd in September 2013 because he had stepped down as Chairman, and from the Board, on 31 August 2013.
Drummond Hall assessed the performance of Henry Staunton, who became Chairman on 1 September 2013.
Henry Stauntons performance as Chairman will be evaluated in 2014, in accordance with the Code.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election every three years and new directors appointed by the Board offer themselves for election at the next AGM following their appointment.
However, in accordance with the Code, the Board has agreed that all directors will stand for election or re-election WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 201321 Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters continued It is expected that all Committee members attend meetings, Board Committees unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
Audit Committee The following table shows the number of meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2013 and the attendance record of individual directors.
Number of meetings Committee membership attended Suzanne Baxter 2 of 2 Annemarie Durbin 3 of 3 Mike Ellis 2 of 2 Drummond Hall 4 of 4 Henry Staunton 4 of 4 Chair: Suzanne Baxter a Suzanne Baxter was appointed as a director of the Company on 4 February 2013. b Annemarie Durbin was appointed as a director of the Company on 3 December 2012.
Audit Committee Report c Mike Ellis resigned as a director of the Company on 23 January 2013. d Henry Staunton resigned as a member of the Committee following his appointment as Dear Shareholder Chairman on 1 September 2013. e Walker Boyd and Robert Moorhead were invited to and attended four meetings of the Audit As Chair of the Audit Committee I am pleased to present my Committee.
report on the activities of the Audit Committee for the financial year ended 31 August 2013.
Our principal objectives are to provide The Audit Committee has met once since 31 August 2013 and all effective financial governance in respect of the Groups financial the current Committee members attended the meeting.
results, the performance of both the internal audit function and the external auditor, and the management of the Groups systems The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys of internal control, business risks and related compliance financial controls and the systems of internal control by activities.
considering and approving the Internal Audit Plans in July 2013 and by reviewing the findings of Internal Audit quarterly, and by The other members of the Committee are Annemarie Durbin and reviewing the scope of work and reports of the external auditor.
Drummond Hall who are both independent non-executive The Committee also reviewed the risk assessment process and directors.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant corporate business risk registers throughout the year.
The risk financial experience, as required by the Code.
Mike Ellis served registers outline the key risks faced by the Company including on the Committee as Chairman until his resignation from the their impacts and likelihood along with the relevant mitigating Board on23 January 2013 and Henry Staunton served on the controls and actions.
Committeeuntil his appointment as Chairman of the Company on1September 2013.
At the invitation of the Committee, the The external auditor reported to the Committee on their Chairman of the Board, the Chief Financial Officer and Chief independence from the Company.
The Committee and the Board Operating Officer, the Internal Audit Director and representatives are satisfied that Deloitte LLP has adequate policies and of the external auditor regularly attend meetings.
The Committee safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and has regular private meetings with the external and internal independence are maintained.
In accordance with professional auditors during the year.
standards, the partner responsible for the audit is changed every five years, and was last changed in 2009.
Deloitte LLP has been The Committee met four times during the year.
The principal the auditor for the Company since it was listed following the agenda items at the formal meetings were a review of the demerger of the business in 2006. preliminary and interim results, review of annual report and accounts, including a decision to restate the 2012 accounts The Committee considers whether the audit should go out to following an amendment to the Companys accounting in respect tender.
The Committee has not previously put the audit out to of the schedule of contributions to the WHSmith Pension Trust tender, since it has taken the view that partner rotation at both the the Company has recognised an IFRIC 14 pension liability, Group and operating business level has been sufficient to review of appointment of auditors, Internal Audit reports, risk maintain the necessary independence, and it has continued to be reports, corporate social responsibility, business continuity satisfied with Deloittes performance.
However, in light of the planning, updates from Travel and High Street risk committees, changes to the Corporate Governance Code on the appointment review of principal risks and uncertainties, review of Internal of auditors, the Committee intends to conduct a tender for the Audit and Risk Plans, review of non-audit fees, performance audit in 2014.
There are no contractual restrictions on the review of Internal Audit and Deloitte LLP, review of Deloitte LLP Committee as to the choice of the external auditor.
audit plans, governance and regulatory updates and review of The Committee has also adopted a formal policy on the internal and fraud control framework.
Companys relationship with its auditor in respect of non-audit work.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Committee.
The majority of non-audit work undertaken by Deloitte LLP in 2012 13 related to tax and turnover certificates.
The auditor may only provide such services if such advice does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
As Chair of the WH Smith PLC 22 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 3 G Go ov ver ern nan ance ce 44 F Fi in nan anc ci ial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s Audit Committee, my approval is required before the Company the Code and Drummond Hall, the Senior Independent Director, uses non-audit services that exceed 25,000.
For the financial would take the Chair.
year ended 31 August 2013 the non-audit fees were 107,071 and The Committee met five times during the year.
The principal the audit fee was 265,859. matters discussed at the meetings were succession planning for In line with our terms of reference, the Committee undertook a Board and senior executives, the appointment of two new thorough assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and non-executive directors, the appointment of a new Chairman and independence of the audit provided by Deloitte LLP.
The Director Senior Independent Director, and the management changes of Internal Audit prepared a questionnaire seeking the views and following the departure of Kate Swann as Group Chief Executive.
feedback of the Board, together with those of Group and divisional It is expected that all Committee members attend meetings, management and it formed the basis of further discussion with unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
The findings of the survey were considered by the The following table shows the number of meetings held during Committee and discussed with Deloitte LLP.
Following our the year ended 31 August 2013 and the attendance record of review, the Committee has determined to recommend to the individual directors.
Board the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP at the AGM on Number of 22January 2014. meetings Due to a long-standing commitment which pre-dates my Committee membership attended appointment to the Board I will not be attending the AGM.
Henry Staunton 5 of 5 Iconfirm that, in my absence, Henry Staunton will be available Suzanne Baxter 2 of 2 toanswer any questions on the work of the Committee.
Walker Boyd 4 of 5 Suzanne Baxter Stephen Clarke 1 of 1 Chair of the Audit Committee Annemarie Durbin 3 of 3 Mike Ellis 3 of 3 10 October 2013 Drummond Hall 5 of 5 Nominations Committee Kate Swann 4 of 4 a Suzanne Baxter was appointed as a director of the Company on 4 February 2013. b Walker Boyd was Chairman of the Committee until he resigned as a director of the Company on 31 August 2013. c Stephen Clarke was appointed as a member of the Committee on 1 July 2013. d Annemarie Durbin was appointed as a director of the Company on 3 December 2012. e Mike Ellis resigned as a director of the Company on 23 January 2013. f Kate Swann resigned as a director of the Company on 30 June 2013.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Companys succession plans and the ongoing structure and capability of the Board.
In accordance with the Companys Board development Chair: Henry Staunton plan, Stephen Clarke was appointed as Group Chief Executive.
The Committee also recommended that Robert Moorhead take Nominations Committee Report on the role of Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
Dear Shareholder Following previous changes to the Board in 2012, the Committee appointed external recruitment consultants, Lygon Group, to As Chairman of the Nominations Committee I am pleased to assist in the process of identification of potential candidates to present my report on the activities of the Nominations Committee join the Board.
As a result of this search, Annemarie Durbin was for the financial year ended 31 August 2013.
The Committees appointed as a non-executive director on 3 December 2012 and principal responsibility is to ensure that the Board comprises Suzanne Baxter was appointed as a non-executive director on 4 individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to February 2013.
I confirm that the consultants we appointed have ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities and no other relationship with the Company and have signed up to the ensure that appropriate procedures are in place for the voluntary Code of Conduct covering board appointments nomination, selection and succession of directors and senior established following the Davies Review.
Following Walker Boyds decision to step down as Chairman of The Committee comprises a majority of independent nonthe Company, the Committee also prepared a job specification for executive directors.
The other members of the Committee are the Companys external recruitment consultants to assist in the Suzanne Baxter, Stephen Clarke, Annemarie Durbin and process of identification of potential candidates to join the Board Drummond Hall.
Mike Ellis served on the Committee until his as Chairman.
As a result of this search, I was appointed as resignation from the Board on 23 January 2013, Kate Swann Chairman of the Company with effect from 1 September 2013. served on the Committee until her resignation from the Board on The Board, prior to appointing me as Chairman, reviewed my 30 June 2013 and Walker Boyd served on the Committee as other commitments.
I confirm that Drummond Hall led the Chairman until his resignation from the Board on 31 August 2013. process and chaired the relevant part of the meetings at which In the event of any matters arising concerning my membership of the appointment of the new Chairman was discussed and that the Board, I would absent myself from the meeting as required by neither Walker Boyd nor myself participated in these discussions.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 201323 Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters continued Following my appointment as Chairman, the Committee also Remuneration Committee agreed that Drummond Hall should be appointed as the Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 September 2013.
Iconfirm that Drummond Hall absented himself from the meetings at which his appointment as Senior Independent Director was discussed by the Committee.
The Committee keeps itself updated on key developments relevant to the Company, including on the subject of diversity in the boardroom.
The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture free from discrimination in any form and is Chair: Drummond Hall proud of its long history of being regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
The Committee believes in providing mentoring for women in senior roles to help them maximise their Remuneration Committee Report careers at the Company.
The Board has chosen not to set specific representation targets for women at Board level at this time Dear Shareholder although it does have due regard for the benefits of diversity As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to within the overriding objective of ensuring that its membership present my report on the activities of the Remuneration has the appropriate balance of skills, experience and Committee for the financial year ended 31 August 2013.
I confirm that the benefits of diversity, including our remuneration policy aims to support the Companys strategy, gender diversity, were actively considered as part of the search in encourage a performance-based culture, to attract and retain appointing Annemarie Durbin and Suzanne Baxter as nonhigh-calibre executives and align executives and shareholders executive directors of the Company.
The table below shows a interests.
We take account of the wider view of executive pay and breakdown of the composition of the Board.
evolving regulation to ensure that our remuneration Tenure Male Female arrangements are appropriate and aligned with our strategy.
0-1 year 33% Male 67% The other members of the Committee are Suzanne Baxter, 1-3 years 17% Female 33% Annemarie Durbin and Henry Staunton.
Mike Ellis served on the 3-6 years 50% Executive non-executive Committee until his resignation from the Board on 23 January Executive 33% 2013 and Walker Boyd served on the Committee until his Non-executive 67% resignation from the Board on 31 August 2013.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Group Chief Executive and representatives of The table below shows the percentage of women and men in the the Committees external independent remuneration adviser senior leadership team and mix of employees across the Group.
Senior leadership team During the year under review the Committee consulted Women 32% extensively with institutional shareholders and shareholder Men 68% advisory bodies on the proposed remuneration for Stephen Clarke who became Group Chief Executive and Robert Moorhead who assumed the combined role of Chief Financial Officer and Employee mix across the Group Chief Operating Officer.
Women 64% Men 36% The responsibilities of the Committee include: determining and agreeing with the Board the policy for the I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors and questions about the work of the Committee.
Upon the appointment of Henry henry Staunton Staunton as Chairman, the Committee agreed that, despite Chairman of the Nominations Committee there not having been a formal review since May 2008 Walker Boyds fee on appointment in 2010 simply being set atareduced 10 October 2013 level to his predecessor without undertaking a benchmark analysis, Henry Staunton should receive the same remuneration as had previously been received by Walker Boyd as Chairman.
It is the Committees intention to undertake areview of the fee paid to the Chairman in the current financialyear: approving the design of, and targets for, the performancerelated pay plans operated by the Company and approving the total annual payments made under such plans: reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders: WH Smith PLC 24 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 3 G Go ov ver ern nan ance ce 44 F Fi in nan anc ci ial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any The Remuneration report is set out on pages 31 to 42. payments made, are appropriate in the circumstances to both I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any the individual and the Company, and ensuring that failure is not questions about the work of the Committee.
rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised: and Drummond hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee determining the individual remuneration package of each executive director and other senior executives, including 10 October 2013 bonuses and share incentives.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by Risk management and internal controls the Chairman and the executive directors.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role The Committee met five times during the year.
The principal of management is to implement the Boards policies on risk and agenda items at the meetings were undertaking shareholder control and provide assurance on compliance with these policies.
consultations in respect of the WH Smith Co-Investment Plan and Steps continue to be taken to embed internal control and risk changes in executive remuneration, approval of annual bonus management further into the operations of the business and to payments and bonus plans, approval of performance conditions deal with areas that require improvement which come to the and grant of long-term incentives, and approval of Chairman and attention of management and the Board.
Such a system is, executive remuneration.
however, designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of It is expected that all Committee members attend meetings, failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide unless they are prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The following table shows the number of meetings held during misstatement or loss.
the year ended 31 August 2013 and the attendance record of individual directors.
i Risk The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for Number of identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the meetings Company, including those risks relating to social, environmental Committee membership attended and ethical matters.
This process was in place throughout the Drummond Hall 5 of 5 year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Suzanne Baxter 2 of 2 Report and meets the requirements of the guidance entitled Walker Boyd 5 of 5 Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors produced by Annemarie Durbin 2 of 2 the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
The Mike Ellis 3 of 3 Audit Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of the system of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
Henry Staunton 5 of 5 a Suzanne Baxter was appointed as a director of the Company on 4 February 2013.
The key features of the risk management process are as follows: b Walker Boyd resigned as a director of the Company on 31 August 2013. c Annemarie Durbin was appointed as a director of the Company on 3 December 2012. the business conducts an annual risk assessment based on d Mike Ellis resigned as a director of the Company on 23 January 2013. identified business objectives which are reviewed and agreed e Kate Swann was invited to and attended two meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
by the executive committee of each business.
Risks are f Stephen Clarke was invited to and attended one meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
categorised into strategic, reputational, operational, financial and compliance and are evaluated in respect of their potential The Committee has met three times since 31 August 2013 and all impact and likelihood.
These risk assessments are updated the current Committee members attended the meetings.
and reviewed quarterly by the Group and business risk Finally, in terms of reporting, this is something of a transitional committees and are reported to the relevant business year.
This is our final report under the old disclosure rules for executive committee and the Audit Committee: remuneration as new rules, often referred to as the new BIS a Company risk assessment is also undertaken by the internal regulations, come into force for financial years ending on or after audit function, which considers all areas of potential risk 30 September 2013.
In this report, we have sought to assist the across all systems, functions and key business processes.
This reader by incorporating those aspects of the new regulations risk assessment, together with the business risk assessment, which do not contradict the current regulations.
However, since forms the basis for determining the Internal Audit Plan.
Audit preparing this report we note that further guidance has been reports in relation to areas reviewed are discussed and agreed issued by various bodies particularly from a joint working group with the business risk committees and the Audit Committee: of leading institutional shareholders and the GC100 a group of the internal audit team meets annually with senior executives leading in-house lawyers representing companies generally.
in order to complete a formal certification of the effectiveness While that guidance was issued too late in the process for us to of internal controls.
These reports are submitted to the fully reflect it in this years report, I wanted to comment that we business risk committees.
Certificates are also provided by the support its principal findings and, in particular, note and will risk committees to the Audit Committee, to assist the Board in follow the preference of many large shareholders for the conducting its annual review of internal controls in compliance development of a more flexible policy than that summarised in with the Turnbull Guidance.
As part of its annual review the this report so that a vote on the Companys remuneration policy Board discusses and agrees the principal risks that are need only be held every three years and will prepare the next included within the Annual Report.
report, being the first under the new regime, accordingly.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 201325 Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters continued a corporate responsibility strategy was approved by the Board, ii Internal controls including objectives and targets to address the impact that our a Financial controls activities have on the environment, workplace, marketplace The Company has an established framework of internal financial and community: control, the effectiveness of which is regularly reviewed by the clear accountability for corporate responsibility issues has executive management and the Board.
The key elements of this been defined at Board and operational level: are as follows: annual updates are submitted to the Board on each aspect of the Board is responsible for overall Company strategy, for corporate responsibility: approving revenue and capital budgets and plans, for approving the Board is committed to maintaining high standards of health major acquisitions and disposals and for determining the and safety in all its business activities.
These standards are set financial structure of the Company, including treasury and out in the Companys Health and Safety Policy which is dividend policy.
Monthly results, variances from plan and regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Risk Management team forecasts are reported to the Board: works with the business to assess health and safety risks and the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its introduce systems to mitigate them.
All notified accidents are duties regarding the Companys financial statements, investigated and targets are set to reduce the level of incidence: accounting policies and the maintenance of proper internal the Board has approved an Environmental Policy and sets business, operational and financial controls.
The Committee environmental objectives and specific targets which are provides a direct link between the Board and the external reviewed annually: auditors through regular meetings: the Board is committed to ensuring reasonable standards the internal audit function advises and assists business among its suppliers and has approved an Ethical Trading Code management in the establishment and maintenance of of Conduct setting out the standards it expects its partners and adequate financial controls and reports to the Audit Committee suppliers to adopt.
This policy covers health and safety, child on the effectiveness of those controls: labour, working hours, discrimination and the environment: the Board has established an organisational structure with the Company is committed to ensuring that its personnel meet clearly-defined lines of responsibility and approval controls good standards of integrity and competence.
The Companys identifying transactions requiring approval by the Board or by systems cover the recruitment, training and development of the approvals committee.
The Chief Financial Officer and Chief personnel, an appropriate division of responsibilities and the Operating Officer is responsible for the functional leadership communication of Company policies and procedures and development of the Companys finance activities: throughout the organisation: and there is a comprehensive system for budgeting and planning Business Recovery Plans exist to enable the business to and for monitoring and reporting the performance of the continue in the event of a disaster with minimum disruption to Companys business to the Board.
Monthly results are reported customers.
against budget and prior year, and forecasts for the current financial year are regularly revised in light of actual Anti-corruption performance.
These results and forecasts cover profits, cash The Company has continued to enhance its policies and flows, capital expenditure and balance sheets: procedures in order to meet the requirements of the Bribery Act 2010.
These policies and procedures include training for the Company has established a uniform system of investment individuals to ensure awareness of acts that might be construed appraisal: as contravening the Act.
The Groups Bribery Ethics Statement is executive management has defined the financial controls and included on the Companys website, www.
procedures with which each business is required to comply.
Key controls over major business risks include reviews against Relations with shareholders performance indicators and exception reporting, and the The Boards primary role is to promote the success of the business is required to prepare monthly management Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board is accounts: and accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities and the Group.
The Company recognises the importance of risks, for review by senior executives, and annual reports are communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy prepared for the Board and Audit Committee covering tax, and performance are understood.
This is achieved principally treasury policies, insurance and pensions.
through the Annual Report and Accounts and the AGM.
In addition, a range of corporate information, including all Company b Non-financial controls announcements and presentations, is available to investors on The Company has established a wide range of non-financial the Companys website, www.
controls covering areas such as health and safety, the Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders environment, ethical trading, employment and business following the announcement of the Companys full year and continuity, the effectiveness of which are regularly reviewed by interim results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the the executive management and the Board.
The key elements are principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All as follows: directors normally attend the AGM and are available to answer questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
WH Smith PLC 26 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 1 O Ov ver erv vi ie ew w 2 2 D Dir ire ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt a t an nd b d bu us sin ine es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w 3 3 G Go ov ver ern nan ance ce 44 F Fi in nan anc ci ial al s st ta at tem emen ent ts s The Notice of Meeting is made available to shareholders at least There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the 20 working days before the meeting.
Those shareholders who Company other than certain restrictions imposed by laws and have elected to receive electronic communications receive notice regulations such as insider trading laws and market of the availability of the Annual Report on the Companys website.
requirements relating to close periods and requirements of the The deadline for appointing a proxy is 48 hours before the time Listing Rules whereby directors and certain employees of the fixed for the meeting although, in calculating this period, no Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys account is taken of non-working days.
Shareholders vote on each resolution on a show of hands, unless The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary a poll is validly called, and after each such vote the number of shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, proxy votes received for, against, and withheld is announced.
areset out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy Theproxy figures are made available in writing at the end of the ofwhich can be obtained from the Companys website, meeting, announced to the London Stock Exchange and published www.
The holders of ordinary shares are on the Companys website.
entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and and to exercise voting rights, and to receive a dividend subject to concerns of major shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and the deduction of any sums due from the holder of ordinary shares Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer update the to the Company on account of calls or otherwise.
Changes to the Board following meetings with major shareholders and analysts Companys Articles of Association must be approved by special briefings are circulated to the Board.
The Head of Investor resolution of the Company.
Relations also carries out a regular programme of work and reports to the Board the views and information needs of The Trustee of the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust holds institutional and major investors.
This is part of the regular ordinary shares in the Company on behalf of the beneficiaries of contact that the Group maintains with its institutional the Trust, who are the employees and former employees of the shareholders.
When requested to do so, the Chairman and Group.
If any offer is made to the holders of ordinary shares to non-executive directors attend meetings with major acquire their shares, the Trustee will not be obliged to accept or shareholders.
reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time subject to subsisting options, but will have regard to the interests Compliance with the Code of the option holders and can consult them to obtain their views Throughout the year ended 31 August 2013 the Company has on the offer, and subject to the foregoing, the Trustee will take the been in compliance with the provisions of the Code except that, action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
asexplained on page 21, it did not comply with the provisions of B.
6.3 of the Code as it did not undertake an externallyPurchase of own shares facilitated Board evaluation and it did not assess the performance At the 2013 AGM, authority was given for the Company to of the outgoing Chairman, Walker Boyd, in respect of the financial purchase, in the market, up to 19,307,830 ordinary shares of 6 year ended 31 August 2013.
It is the Boards intention to 22 67p each, renewing the authority granted at the 2012 AGM.
The undertake an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board and to Company used this authority to return cash to shareholders by evaluate the performance of the Chairman in 2014, in accordance purchasing and subsequently cancelling 7,031,634 of its own with the Code.
shares during the financial year, representing 5.7 per cent of the issued share capital as at 31 August 2013, at an average price of Dividends 706p.
The aggregate amount of consideration including costs The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the paid by the Company for the purchases was 50m.
This authority year of 21.3p per ordinary share on 30 January 2014 to members is renewable annually and approval will be sought from on the Register at the close of business on 10 January 2014.
This shareholders at the AGM in 2014 to renew the authority for a final dividend and the interim dividend of 9.4p per ordinary share further year.
paid on 8 August 2013 makes a total dividend of 30.7p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 August 2013.
Issue of new ordinary shares During the financial year ended 31 August 2013, 285,956 ordinary Share capital shares of the Company were issued under the Sharesave Scheme The issued share capital of the Company, together with details of at prices between 335.60p and 426.80p.
The Articles of shares issued during the year, is shown in Note 24 to the Accounts.
Association of the Company provide that the Board may, subject to the prior approval of the members of the Company, be granted The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 August 2013 6 authority to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot was 123,412,814 ordinary shares of 22 67p each.
These shares are shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in shares, including new ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and voting rights.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 201327 Governance Corporate governance, AGM and other matters Corporate governance, AGM and other matters continued Accounts.
In addition, Note 23 of the Accounts includes the Significant agreements change of control Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to trading subsidiaries, WH Smith High Street Limited and credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Directors report and business WHSmith Travel Limited, is party, such as commercial trading review also highlights the principal risks and uncertainties facing contracts, banking arrangements, property leases, licence and the Group.
concession agreements to take effect, alter or terminate.
In addition, the service agreements of some senior executives and The Group continues to be highly cash generative and has a employee share plans would be similarly affected on a change of committed multi-currency revolving credit facility of 70m.
control, including, in the case of some employees, in relation to compensation for loss of office.
The directors report that they have reviewed current performance and forecasts, combined with expenditure Details of the change of control clause contained in Robert commitments, including capital expenditure, proposed dividends Moorheads service contract can be found in the Remuneration and share buyback, and borrowing facilities.
After making report on page 38. enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue its current Directors conflicts operations, including contractual and commercial commitments The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to for the foreseeable future despite the uncertain economic consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director outlook.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the going has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare Situational Auditor Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those directors Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding auditor of the Company.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted as auditors to the Company and a resolution to authorise the directors must act in the way they consider, in good faith, would directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the be most likely to promote the success of the Company, and they AGM.
may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Any Situational Disclosure of information to the auditor Conflicts considered by the Board, and any authorisations given, Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each of the are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of conflicts directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
defined in Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each of the directors Companys shareholders hastaken all steps he or she should have taken as a director As at the date of this report the Company has been notified of the inorder to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
% as at date of Nature Annual General Meeting holder Number notification of holding The AGM of the Company will be held at Allen & Overy LLP, One Lloyds Banking Group plc 10,305,332 8.02 Indirect Bishops Square, London E1 6AD on 22 January 2014 at 11.30am.
Norges Bank 3,886,018 3.06 Direct The Notice of Annual General Meeting is given, together with Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules This report was approved by the Board on 10 October 2013.
DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
By order of the Board Ian houghton Financial risk management Company Secretary The financial risk management and policies of the Group are disclosed in Note 23 of the Accounts.
10 October 2013 Going concern The Groups business activities together with the factors that are likely to affect its future developments, performance and position are set out in this Directors report and business review.
This Directors report and business review also describes the Groups financial position, cash flows and borrowing facilities, further information on which is detailed in Notes 20 to 23 of the WH Smith PLC 28 Annual report and accounts 2013
