William Hill PLC 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11.
EARNINGS PER SHARE The earnings per share figures for the respective periods are as follows: 52 weeks ended 31 December 2013 53 weeks ended 1 January 2013 restated Potentially Potentially dilutive share dilutive share Basic options Diluted Basic options Diluted Profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent for the financial period m 211.2 211.2 189.8 189.8 Exceptional items note 3 m 22.8 22.8 13.7 13.7 Exceptional items tax charge note 3 m 1.7 1.7 1.5 1.5 Amortisation of intangibles net of tax m 9.2 9.2 4.5 4.5 Adjusted profit after tax for the financial period m 241.5 241.5 206.5 206.5 Weighted average number of shares million 838.3 15.3 853.6 757.9 11.7 769.6 Earnings per share pence 25.2 0.5 24.7 25.0 0.3 24.7 Amortisation adjustment pence 1.1 1.1 0.6 0.6 Exceptional adjustment pence 2.5 2.5 1.6 0.1 1.5 Earnings per share adjusted pence 28.8 0.5 28.3 27.2 0.4 26.8 An adjusted earnings per share, based on profit for the period before exceptional items and before the amortisation of specifically identified intangible assets arising on acquisitions, has been presented in order to highlight the underlying performance of the Group.
The basic weighted average number of shares excludes shares held by The William Hill Holdings 2001 Employee Benefit Trust and those shares held in treasury.
The effect of this was to reduce the average number of shares by 0.8m in the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2013 53 weeks ended 1 January 2013: 0.9m.
The comparator 2012 figures have been restated from the previously reported 27.0p basic and 26.6p diluted earnings per share to take into account the impact of the rights issue as described in note 26 in line with IAS 33 Earnings Per Share.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS In order to better present the composition of assets recognised in acquisitions, the category formerly named Intangibles arising on acquisitions has been split into two categories.
The presentation in comparative periods is on a consistent basis.
The amortisation period for the Groups computer software is between three and ten years.
The use of a ten-year life in respect of some of the software assets is supported by warranties written into the relevant software supply contract.
Licences are judged to have an indefinite life and are accordingly not amortised but are subject to annual impairment reviews.
The directors consider that the Groups licences have an indefinite life due to: the fact that the Group is a significant operator in a well-established market: the proven and sustained demand for bookmaking services: and the Groups track record of successfully renewing its betting permits and licences.
Acquired technology platforms include bookmaking-related software platforms and systems recognised at fair value in business combinations.
There are no individually material items within this category.
Brands, trade names and customer relationships This category of assets includes brands, trade names and customer relationships recognised in business combinations.
These include the following significant items: i Online assets The Group holds assets with an original cost of 19.9m arising from the 2009 acquisition of assets, businesses and contracts from Playtech that are fully amortised and continue to be used.
These assets relate to trade names and affiliate relationships.
ii US assets In 2012, the Group acquired three US businesses.
Brands and customer relationships were recognised of 13.1m and are being amortised over lives of between three and ten years.
iii Sportingbet assets In March 2013, the Group acquired businesses and assets from the Sportingbet group as described in note 16.
Brand and customer relationship assets were recognised of 163.1m.
Of these assets, items with a carrying value of 86.2m have indefinite lives and the remainder are being amortised over lives ranging between three and 15 years.
com assets As described in note 16, the Group acquired tomwaterhouse.
An identifiable brand of 3.6m was recognised and is being amortised over three years.
Impairment reviews The Group performs an annual impairment review for goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, by comparing the carrying amount of these assets with their recoverable amount.
The most recent test was conducted at 31 December 2013.
Testing is carried out by allocating the carrying value of these assets to cash generating units CGUs and determining the recoverable amounts of those CGUs through value in use calculations.
Where the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value of the assets, the assets are considered as not impaired.
Value in use calculations are based upon estimates of future cash flows derived from the Groups long range Operating Profit forecasts by division.
Operating Profit forecasts are derived from the Groups annual strategic planning or similarly scoped exercise.
These are high level forecasts, looking four years ahead, with separate extrapolation of net revenue and expense by division based on a combination of recently observable trends, management expectations and known future events.
For the purposes of the value in use calculation, the long range operating forecast is extended to cover a five year period and year one of the long range Operating Profit forecast is replaced immediately prior to use if an annual budget for that year has been subsequently approved.
This is done to ensure that year one of the test reflects latest detailed planning for that period.
The implications, if any, of a materially different operating profit outcome for annual budget versus the relevant year of the long range forecast are also considered at that point.
Cash flows beyond that five year period are extrapolated using long-term growth rates as estimated for each CGU separately, which do not exceed expectations of long-term growth in the local market.
Both the following years budget and the long range Operating Profit forecasts are approved by management.
Discount rates are applied to each CGUs cash flows that reflect both the time value of money and the risks that apply to the cash flows of that CGU.
These are estimated by management on the basis of typical debt and equity costs for listed gaming and betting companies, with samples chosen where applicable from the same markets or territories as the CGU.
Further risk premia and discounts are applied, if appropriate, to this rate to reflect the risk profile of the specific CGU relative to the market in which it operates.
Our discount rates are calculated on a pre-tax basis and the calculations incorporate estimates of the tax rates that will apply to the future cash flows of the applicable CGU.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report William Hill PLC 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS The principal assumptions underlying our cash flow forecasts are as follows: 1.
We assume that the underlying business model will continue to operate on a comparable basis, as adjusted for key sporting events for example, the 2014 World Cup, expected regulatory or tax changes and planned business initiatives.
Our forecasts anticipate the continuation of recent growth or decline trends in staking, gaming net revenues and expenses, as adjusted for changes in our business model or expected changes in the wider industry or economy.
We assume that we will achieve our target sports betting gross win margins as set for each territory, which we base upon our experience of the outturn of sports results over the long term, given the tendency for sports results to vary in the short term but revert to a norm over a longer term.
In our annual budget process, expenses incorporate a bottom up estimation of our cost base.
For employee remuneration, this takes into account staffing numbers and models by division, while other costs are assessed separately by category, with principal assumptions including an extrapolation of recent cost inflation trends and the expectation that we will incur costs in line with agreed contractual rates.
The other significant assumptions incorporated into our impairment reviews are those relating to discount rates and long-term growth assumptions, as noted below separately for each CGU.
Recoverable values of CGUs Long-term Recoverable Cash generating unit Discount rate growth rate value % % m Retail 11.5 2.6 2,000.0 Online 9.8 2.6 2,809.4 Stadia 11.5 2.6 11.8 US 13.8 3.0 75.8 Sportingbet 10.5 2.9 547.9 tomwaterhouse.
com 11.52.9 91.8 No impairment was identified in any of the CGUs tested.
The Retail CGU is defined as the Retail segment, which we describe in note 2.
The CGU holds goodwill of 681.0m and other intangibles with indefinite lives of 484.6m.
The Online CGU is defined as the Online segment, which we describe in note 2, and holds goodwill of 183.9m.
The Stadia CGU is defined as the combined assets and operations of the two greyhound stadia operated by the business, which are included within the Other segment as described in note 2.
Goodwill allocated to this CGU is 7.1m.
The US CGU is defined as the US segment, which we describe in note 2.
Goodwill at the balance sheet date was valued at 18.1m.
The Sportingbet CGU is defined as the Australian assets and operations acquired from the Sportingbet plc group during the year as described in note 16.
These operations are included within the Australian segment as described in note 2 and operate under the Sportingbet and Centrebet brands.
This CGU includes goodwill of 258.2m and other intangible assets with indefinite lives with a carrying value of 86.2m at the balance sheet date.
com CGU is defined as the tomwaterhouse.
com business acquired during the year as described in note 16 and which operates under the tomwaterhouse.
This CGU is included within the Australian segment as described in note 2 and holds 22.4m of goodwill at the balance sheet date.
Sensitivity of impairment reviews In the Stadia CGU, a fall in the cash flows of 4% or an increase in discount rates of 0.4% would be required to reduce the recoverable amount to equal the carrying value.
For all other CGUs, no impairment would occur under any reasonably possible changes in assumptions upon which the recoverable amount was estimated.
