William Hill PLC 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 32.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEMES Nature and extent of the risks arising from financial instruments held by the defined benefit scheme Pension assets and liabilities pre-tax of 310.3m and 327.8m respectively are held on the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as at 31 December 2013.
Through the scheme the Company is exposed to a number of potential risks as described below: Asset volatility: the schemes defined benefit obligation is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: however, the scheme invests in equities.
These assets are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, but provide volatility and risk in the short term.
Changes in bond yields: the risk of a decrease in bond yields, which increases the value of the scheme liabilities, is partially offset by the upside benefit of an increase in the value of the schemes bond holdings.
Inflation risk: a significant proportion of the schemes defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation and therefore higher inflation would result in a higher defined benefit obligation.
The majority of the schemes assets are either unaffected by inflation or only loosely correlated with inflation and therefore an increase in inflation would also increase the deficit.
Life expectancy: if the Schemes members live longer than expected, the schemes benefits will need to be paid for longer, increasing the defined benefit obligation.
The Trustees and the Company manage risks in the scheme through the following strategies: Diversification: investments are diversified to reduce the impact of the failure of any single investment on the overall level of assets.
Investment strategy: the Trustees are required to review their investment strategy on a regular basis.
Alongside the risk assessment above, the Group has agreed a deficit recovery plan with the Trustees aimed at eliminating the decifit over the period to 2018.
The weighted average duration of the schemes defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2013 and 1 January 2013 was 21 years.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Group and its associates are disclosed below.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries and associates are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements.
Trading transactions Associate During the period the Group made purchases of 42.5m 53 weeks ended 1 January 2013: 41.3m from Satellite Information Services Limited, a subsidiary of the Groups associated undertaking, SIS.
At 31 December 2013 the amount receivable from Satellite Information Services Limited by the Group was nil 1 January 2013: 3.1m.
Purchases were made at market price.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.
52 weeks 53 weeks ended ended 31 December 1 January 2013 2013 m m Short-term employee benefits including salaries 1.9 2.5 Post-employment benefits employers contribution Share-based payments IFRS 2 charges 2.4 3.5 4.3 6.0 The disclosures above include ca.
60,000 received by directors in respect of dividends on the Companys ordinary shares.
The values presented above include share-based payments measured in accordance with IFRS 2.
This is a different basis from that used for the presentation in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Other than the inclusion of dividends and the basis of measurement of share-based payments, all values above are presented on a consistent basis with those disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Pension schemes The pension schemes of the Group are related parties.
Arrangements between the Group and its pension schemes are disclosed in note 32.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
