William Hill PLC 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2013 RepORT ON CORpORATe gOveRNANCe Introduction and Statement Board balance and composition The proportion of women members As at 31 December 2013, and for the of the Board currently stands at 25%.
ofCompliance whole of 2013, the Board comprised five The Company regards each of David The Board believes that good corporate independent Non-executive Directors, Edmonds, Ashley Highfield, David governance contributes to William Hills the Chairman who was independent Lowden, Georgina Harvey and Imelda performance and the report which follows upon his appointment and two executive Walsh as independent Non-executive explains our most important governance directors who are collectively responsible Directors.
Gareth Davis satisfied the processes and how they support the for the long-term success of the Company.
independence criteria detailed in provision business.
In particular we have applied the The roles of Chairman and Chief A.
3.1 of the Code upon his appointment principles of good corporate governance Executive are separated, clearly defined as Chairman on 1 September 2010. advocated by the UK Corporate in writing and approved by the Board.
The Board comprises individuals with wide Governance Code, published by the David Edmonds is the Senior Independent Financial Reporting Council in September business experience gained in various Non-executive Director.
sectors of industry and in the public 2012.
It is the view of the Board that the Company has been compliant with the During the period, the Company satisfied sector.
The directors aim is to ensure the Code requirements that at least half that the balance of the Board reflects the principles of the Code during the whole of 2013 with the exception of Code provision the Board, excluding the Chairman, needs of the Groups business and to should comprise Non-executive ensure a thorough consideration of the C. 3.7, which recommends that the FTSE 350 companies should put the external Directors determined by the Board to important issues facing William Hill and be independent.
audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
The report from the Audit & Risk Committee explains the reasons why it has been decided not to have undertaken bOARD bAlANCe a tender.
The Board of Directors Ralph Topping Gareth Davis Bookmaking and gaming International regulated business The Boards Role The Board of William Hill remains committed to high standards of corporate governance, which we consider to be vital to the effective management of the business and to maintaining the David Lowden Neil Cooper confidence of investors.
We have a defined International business Leisure, international business andfinance andfinance framework of roles and responsibilities in place to support the Boards operation.
The Board is responsible for: development of strategy and major policies: Georgina Harvey Imelda Walsh Media and publishing Retail and human resources reviewing performance: approving interim dividend payments and recommending final dividend payments: approval of the annual operating plan, financial statements, major acquisitions David Edmonds Ashley Highfield Regulatory, public sector Media and technology and disposals: andbusiness the Groups corporate governance and corporate responsibility arrangements: and the appointment and removal of directors.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
