William Hill PLC 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 14.1 million, which is 5% of pre-tax profit before those exceptional items disclosed in note 3 to the Group financial statements, and below 2% of equity.
Pre-tax profit before exceptional items has been used to exclude the effect of volatility of exceptional items from our determination.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of 0.3 million as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also agreed to report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on that assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at four locations.
Three of these, the UK, Gibraltar and Australia, were subject to a full audit, whilst the remaining location, the USA, was subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at that location.
The three locations, subject to full audit procedures, represent the principal business units and together with the Group Functions, account for 95.5% of the Groups net assets, 98.5% of the Groups revenue and 99.1% of the Groups profit before tax.
They were also selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Our audit work at the four locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
We include all component audit teams in our team briefing, discuss their risk assessment and in the current year a senior member of the team has visited both Australia and Gibraltar to review documentation of the findings from their work.
The audit procedures in the UK and the USA were performed by members of the Group audit team.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
