William Hill PLC 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 scope to reward for exceptional effort This Directors Remuneration Report How the Remuneration covers the remuneration of the executive Committeeoperates to set and achievement that delivers value both for the Company and the shareholders.
and Non-executive Directors of William Hill theremuneration policy PLC.
In line with new regulations governing The Companys Remuneration Committee Likewise, failure to achieve individually or at Corporate level will not be rewarded.
the disclosure and approval of directors the Committee is constituted in remuneration, the report is split into three accordance with the recommendations The Committee is also mindful of sections: an annual statement from the of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
ensuring that there is an appropriate Chair of the Committee, a Remuneration The Committee is a committee of the balance between the level of risk and Policy Report and an Annual Report Board which determines the Groups reward for the individual, the Company on Remuneration.
policy on the remuneration of the executive and for our shareholders.
When setting directors, Chairman and other relevant This part of the Directors Remuneration the levels of short-term and long-term senior management.
It works within variable remuneration, the degree of Report, the Remuneration Policy Report, defined terms of reference which are sets out the remuneration policy for stretch in performance conditions and available on the Companys corporate the split between equity and cash within the Company and has been prepared website: www.
com in accordance with Schedule 8 to the the package, consideration is given to obtaining the appropriate proportion of Large and Medium-sized Companies The Committees key objectives are to: and Groups Accounts and Reports each so as not to encourage unnecessary set and agree with the Board risk-taking.
As well as financial risk, the Regulations 2008 as amended.
a competitive and transparent The policy has been developed taking into Committee also ensures that there is an remuneration framework which is appropriate focus on Environment, Safety account the principles of the UK Corporate aligned to the Group strategy and is in Governance Code 2012, the latest and Governance ESG issues.
the interests of both the Company and guidelines from the Association of British its shareholders: and The remuneration package is reviewed Insurers, National Association of Pension periodically taking into account all Funds and ISS RREV and the views of our determine the specific remuneration elements of remuneration, i. e. not looking major shareholders.
packages for each of the executive at any single element in isolation, to ensure directors and other senior The Policy Report will be put to a binding it remains competitive.
The Committee management, including basic salary, undertakes the determination of individual shareholder vote at the Annual General incentives, other benefits and any Meeting on 8 May 2014. remuneration packages for executive compensation payments.
directors and senior management Remuneration policy annually.
Whilst pay benchmarking Remuneration Policy report provides context for setting pay levels, The remuneration policy for executive This part of the Directors Remuneration directors and senior management is itisnot considered in isolation.
Report sets out the remuneration policy designed to support the business needs The total remuneration package is for the Company and, subject to approval, of the Group, to ensure it has the ability structured so that a significant proportion will take effect from 8 May 2014, the date to attract and retain senior leaders of is linked to performance conditions of the AGM.
a high calibre, and to align the longmeasured over both the short and longer term interests of executive directors term.
It is also the Companys policy and senior management with those of to ensure that a high proportion of the our shareholders.
potential remuneration package is paid in shares, which is designed to ensure The Committee considers that a successful remuneration policy needs to that executives have a strong ongoing alignment with shareholders through the be sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Groups business Companys share price performance.
environment and in remuneration The table below summarises each practice.
There must be transparency element of the remuneration policy for the and alignment to the delivery of strategic executive directors, explaining how each objectives at both a Group and an element operates and how each part links individual level.
There must also be to the corporate strategy.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report
