William Hill PLC 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES GENERAL INFORMATION William Hill PLC is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is Greenside House, 50 Station Road, London, N22 7TP.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on page 2 and note 2.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with our accounting policies.
BASIS OF ACCOUNTING The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The Group financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except where certain assets or liabilities are held at amortised cost or at fair value as described in our accounting policies.
The key accounting policies adopted are set out below.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS In preparing the Group financial statements for the current period the Group has adopted the following new IFRS and amendments to IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, which have not had a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group: IFRS 7 revised Financial instruments: Disclosures IFRS 13 Fair value measurement IAS 1 revised Presentation of financial statements IAS 19 revised Employee benefits IAS 34 revised Interim financial reporting The key impact of IAS 19 revised Employee Benefits has been to remove the separate assumptions for expected return on plan assets and discounting of scheme liabilities.
This is replaced with a net interest cost based on the net defined benefit liability and the discount rate, measured at the beginning of the year.
Accordingly, this replaces the separate disclosures of interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and the expected return on plan assets with a single net interest expense line.
Adoption of IAS 19 revised also introduces a new term, remeasurements, for the actuarial gains and losses on the defined benefit obligation, being the difference between actual investment returns and the return implied by the net interest cost, in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
This has not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
STANDARDS IN ISSUE BUT NOT EFFECTIVE A complete list of standards that are in issue but not yet effective is included with our full accounting policies in an appendix to the Annual Report.
We do not anticipate that there will be a material impact on the Groups financial statements from standards that are in issue but not yet effective.
KEY ACCOUNTING POLICIES Below we set out our key accounting policies.
A complete list of our accounting policies is included in the Annual Report as an appendix on pages 133 to 140.
William Hill PLC 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 REVENUE RECOGNITION Amounts wagered does not represent the Groups statutory revenue measure and now comprises the gross takings receivable from customers in respect of individual bets placed in the period in over the counter LBO, Telephone, US, Australian and Online sportsbook businesses and net revenue for the period for LBO machines and Online casino, poker and bingo products.
This represents a change in treatment of LBO machines wagering, for which gross takings was previously utilised.
This change has been made in order to improve consistency across the Groups segments and is reflected in current and prior period results.
The presentation of net revenues, which is the Groups statutory revenue measure, is unaffected by this change.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable from customers and represents amounts receivable for goods and services that the Group is in business to provide, net of discounts, marketing inducements, VAT and other sales related taxes, as set out below.
In the case of the LBO including gaming machines, Telephone, US, Online sportsbook, Australian and Online casino operations including games on the online arcade and other numbers bets, revenue represents gains and losses from betting activity in the period.
Open positions are carried at fair value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are recognised in revenue, as well as gains and losses realised on positions that have closed.
Revenue from the online poker business reflects the net income rake earned from poker games completed by the period end.
In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income arising from the operation of the greyhound stadia in the period, including sales of refreshments and tote income.
Other operating income mostly represents rents receivable on properties let by the Group, bookmaking software licensing income and hotel revenues and is recognised on an accruals basis.
GOING CONCERN As highlighted in notes 21 and 22 to the financial statements, the Group meets its day to day working capital requirements from positive operational cash flow and its available cash resources.
These are supplemented when required by additional drawings under the Groups bank loan facilities, which are committed until November 2015.
Whilst there are a number of risks to the Groups trading performance, the Group does not have any material financial repayment obligations before November 2015.
The Groups strategic forecasts, based on reasonable assumptions, indicate that the Group should be able to operate within the level of its currently available committed facilities and its banking covenants.
After making enquiries and after consideration of the Groups existing operations, cash flow forecasts and assessment of business and regulatory risks, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS Exceptional items are those items the Group considers to be non-recurring or material in nature that should be brought to the readers attention in understanding the Groups financial performance.
Financial statements Governance Strategic Report William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 92 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in the Statement of Group Accounting Policies included on pages 133 to 140, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial period are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives Determining whether goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill or intangible assets have been allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Note 12 provides information on the assumptions used in these financial statements.
Retirement benefit costs The determination of the pension cost and defined benefit obligation of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes depends on the selection of certain assumptions which include the discount rate, inflation rate, salary growth and mortality.
Differences arising from actual experience or future changes in assumptions will be reflected in subsequent periods.
Note 32 provides information on the assumptions used in these financial statements.
Valuation of antepost bet liabilities In assessing the fair value of open bet positions, the directors use their judgement in selecting appropriate valuation techniques and inputs, based upon actual experience and the profile of the bets placed.
The outcomes of bets are inherently uncertain: consequently, any difference will be reflected in subsequent accounting periods.
Taxation Due to the multinational nature of the Group and the complexity of tax legislation in various jurisdictions in which the Group operates, the directors must apply judgement in estimating the likely outcome of certain tax matters whose final outcome may not be determined for a number of years and which may differ from the current estimation.
In forming that judgement, the directors make assumptions regarding the interpretation and application of tax laws to the circumstances of those specific items.
These estimates are updated in each period until the outcome is finally determined through resolution with a tax authority and or legal process.
Differences arising from changes in estimates or from final resolution may be material and will be charged or credited to the income statement in the period of re-estimation or resolution.
Valuations and useful economic lives of assets on acquisition In assessing the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations, the directors use their judgement in selecting suitable valuation methods and inputs and in estimating the useful economic lives UELs of assets.
The range of inputs considered in these valuations varies according to the item being valued and typically includes discount rates and the forecast future performance of the business being acquired, both of which involve a degree of estimation.
UELs are reviewed on a periodic basis and changes are recognised prospectively through an adjustment to the assets amortisation charge in the income statement.
A change in UEL of an asset, including the allocation of a definite life to an asset which previously had an indefinite life, may result in a materially different amortisation charge in that and subsequent years.
