Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company accounting policies 53 weeks ended 3 February 2013 Basis of preparation Other operating income These separate financial statements of Wm Morrison Other operating income primarily consists of income not directly Supermarkets PLC the Company have been prepared on a going related to the operating of supermarkets and mainly comprises concern basis under the historic cost convention, except as rental incomes and income generated from recycling of disclosed in the accounting policies set out below, and in packaging.
Rental income arising from operating leases is accordance with applicable accounting standards under UK GAAP accounted for on a straight-line basis to the date of the next and the Companies Act 2006. rent review.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently Investments in dealing with items which are considered material in relation a Investments in subsidiary undertakings to the Companys financial statements.
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment.
Accounting reference date The accounting period of the Company ends on the Sunday falling b Investments in equity instruments between 29 January and 4 February each year.
All equity instruments are held for long term investment and are measured at fair value, where the fair value can be measured Turnover recognition reliably.
Where the fair value of the instruments cannot be measured reliably, the investment will be recognised at cost Turnover comprises the fair value of consideration received or less accumulated impairment losses in accordance with FRS 26 receivable for the sale of goods in the ordinary course of the Financial instruments: recognition and measurement.
It is recognised when significant risks and Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, there is reasonable certainty of recovery of the consideration and the Tangible assets amount of revenue, associated costs and possible return of goods can be estimated reliably.
Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Costs include directly a Sale of goods in-store and fuel attributable costs.
Annual reviews are made of estimated useful Sale of goods in-store is recorded net of value added tax, returns, lives and material residual values.
staff discounts, coupons, vouchers and the free element of multi-save transactions.
Sale of fuel is recognised net of value Depreciation added tax and Morrisons Miles award points.
Revenue is The policy of the Company is to provide depreciation at rates recognised when transactions are completed in-store.
which are calculated to write off the cost less residual value of tangible fixed assets on a straight line basis.
The rates applied are: b Other sales Other revenue primarily comprises income from concessions and Freehold land 0% commissions based on the terms of the contract.
Revenue Freehold buildings 2.5% collected on behalf of others is not recognised as turnover, other Leasehold improvements Over the shorter of lease than the related commission.
Sales are recorded net of value period and 2.5% added tax and intra-group transactions.
Plant, equipment, Cost of sales fixtures and vehicles 10% to 33% Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including Assets under construction 0% manufacturing, warehouse and transportation costs.
Store depreciation, store overheads and store based employee costs are Fixed assets are reviewed for indications of impairment when also allocated to cost of sales.
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
This is performed for each Supplier income income generating unit, which in the case of a supermarket Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are collectively referred is an individual retail outlet.
If there are indications of possible to as supplier income in the retail industry.
Supplier income is impairment, then a test is performed on the asset affected recognised as a deduction from cost of sales on an accruals basis to assess its recoverable amount against carrying value.
based on the expected entitlement which has been earned up to An impaired asset is written down to its recoverable amount, the balance sheet date for each relevant supplier contract.
The which is the higher of value in use or its net realisable value.
accrued incentives, rebates and discounts receivable at period end In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are are included within prepayments and accrued income.
Where discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate amounts received are in the expectation of future business, that reflects current market assessments of the time value of these are recognised in the income statement in line with that money and the risks specific to the asset.
If there is indication of an increase in fair value of an asset that had been previously impaired, then this is recognised by reversing the impairment, but only to the extent that the recoverable amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment loss had been recognised for the asset.
97 Financial statements Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Company accounting policies continued 53 weeks ended 3 February 2013 Financial instruments The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is immediately recognised in the profit and loss account within cost Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Companys of sales for the energy price contracts and within interest payable balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to the in relation to the cross-currency swaps.
If a hedge of a forecast contractual provisions of the instrument.
transaction subsequently results in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gains or losses that a Financial assets were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into the profit i Trade and other debtors: Trade and other debtors are initially and loss account when the transaction occurs.
recognised at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost.
Provision is made when there is objective evidence that the Capital management Company will not be able to recover balances in full, with the charge being recognised in the profit and loss account.
Balances The capital management policy of the Company is consistent with are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as that of the Group set out in note 18. being remote.
Borrowing costs ii Cash: Cash and cash equivalents includes cash-in-hand, All borrowing costs are recognised in the Companys profit and cash-at-bank and bank overdrafts together with short term, loss account on an accruals basis, except for interest costs that are highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known directly attributable to the construction of buildings and other amounts of cash, with an insignificant risk of a change in value, qualifying assets which are capitalised and included within the within three months from the date of acquisition.
initial cost of the asset.
Capitalisation of interest ceases when the asset is ready for use.
b Financial liabilities i Trade and other creditors: Trade and other creditors are initially Pension costs stated at fair value and subsequently held at amortised cost.
The Company operates defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under ii Borrowings: Borrowings are initially recorded at fair value, net of which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Subsequent to initial recognition, A defined benefit scheme is one that is not a defined contribution any difference between the redemption value and the initial scheme.
Pension benefits under defined benefit schemes are carrying amount is recognised in profit for the period over the defined on retirement based on age at date of retirement, years of period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
service and a formula using either the employees compensation package or career average revalued earnings.
c Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair The Company operates a defined benefit retirement scheme value, which normally equates to cost, and are remeasured at which is funded by contributions from the Company and fair value through profit or loss, except where the derivative members.
The defined benefit scheme is not open to new qualifies for hedge accounting.
Pension scheme assets, which are held in separate trustee administered funds, are valued at market rates.
Pension Cash flow hedges scheme obligations are measured on a discounted present value Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges basis using assumptions as shown in note 41.
The operating and when they hedge the Companys exposure to variability in cash financing costs of the scheme are recognised separately in the flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated profit and loss account in the period in which they arise.
Death-inwith a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast service costs are recognised on a straight line basis over their transaction.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the STRGL.
The Company has cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges.
These derivative financial instruments are used to match The Company has a right to recognise an asset, should one arise, or minimise risk from potential movements in foreign exchange in respect of the Companys net obligations to the pension rates inherent in the cash flows of the US dollar private placement schemes.
Therefore either an asset or a liability is recognised loan notes.
in the balance sheet, and is stated net of deferred tax.
To minimise the risk from potential movements in energy prices, A liability or asset is recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Company has energy price contracts which are designated as the Companys net obligations to the scheme and is stated net cash flow hedges.
The Company also operates a stakeholder pension scheme and contributions are charged to the profit and loss To minimise the risk from potential movements in foreign account as they arise.
exchange rates, the Company uses forward exchange contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of Derivatives are reviewed annually for effectiveness.
Where exchange at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, foreign currency are retranslated at the rates of exchange at the or highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are any gain or loss on the movement in fair value of the derivative included in the profit and loss account for the period except when financial instrument is recognised directly in equity through they deferred in reserves as qualifying cash flow hedges.
the statement of total recognised gains and losses STRGL.
98 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Provisions Stocks Provisions are created where the Company has a present legal Stocks are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, where it is Provision is made for obsolete and slow moving items.
Cost is probable that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits calculated on a weighted average basis and comprises purchase to settle the obligation from the Company, and where it can be price, import duties and other non-recoverable taxes less rebates.
Stocks represent goods for resale.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less Provisions are made in respect of individual properties where estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
there are obligations for onerous contracts, dilapidations and certain decommissioning obligations for petrol filling stations.
Share-based payments The amounts provided are based on the Companys best estimate The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments to of the likely committed outflow to the Company.
Where material, certain employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
these estimated outflows are discounted to net present value.
The fair value of the share-based award is calculated at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting Leases period with a corresponding increase in equity.
This is based Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of on the Companys estimate of share options that will eventually ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating vest.
This takes into account movement of non-market conditions, leases: all other leases are classified as finance leases.
being service conditions and financial performance, if relevant.
The fair value of equity-settled awards granted is not Lessor accounting operating leases subsequently revisited.
Assets acquired and held for use under operating leases are Fair value is measured by use of a binomial stochastic option recorded as fixed assets and are depreciated on a straight line pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for effects lives.
Operating lease income is recognised on a straight line basis of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural to the date of the next rent review.
The cost of the share-based award relating to each subsidiary is calculated, based on an appropriate Lessee accounting operating leases apportionment and recharged through intercompany.
Rental payments are taken to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Financial contracts Where the Company enters into financial contracts to guarantee Lessee accounting finance leases the indebtedness of other companies within its Group, the The present value of the minimum lease payments payable Company considers these to be insurance arrangements, and during the lease term is included within fixed assets and the accounts for them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats corresponding lease commitments are shown as obligations the guarantee contract as a contingent liability until such time to the lessor.
Lease payments are split between capital and as it becomes probable that the Company will be required to interest elements using the annuity method.
Depreciation make a payment under the guarantee.
on the relevant assets and interest are charged to the profit and loss account.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly Deferred and current taxation attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in Current tax payable is based on the taxable profit for the period equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
using tax rates in effect during the period.
Taxable profit differs from the profit as reported in the profit and loss account as it is Where the Company has purchased its own equity share capital, adjusted both for items that will never be taxable or deductible the consideration paid, including directly attributable incremental and timing differences.
costs, is deducted from retained earnings until the shares are cancelled.
On cancellation, the nominal value of the shares is Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result deducted from share capital and the amount is transferred to the in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a capital redemption reserve.
right to pay less tax, at a future date, at average rates expected to apply when they crystallise, based on tax rates enacted or Exemptions substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Timing The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from the differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and disclosure requirements of FRS 29 Financial instruments: expenditure in taxation computations in different periods from disclosures.
The cash flows of the Company and financial those in which they are included in the financial statements.
instruments disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is recognised only when it is recoverable on the basis that it is more likely than not that there will be The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 8 Related parties suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward from disclosing related party transactions with wholly owned tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing entities that are part of the Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Group.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and not presented a profit and loss account for the Company.
