Financial statements Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Group accounting policies General information New IFRS and amendments to IAS and interpretations Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC is a public limited company There are a number of standards and interpretations issued by incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act the IASB that are effective for financial statements after this 2006 Registration number 358949.
The Company is domiciled reporting period.
The following have not been early adopted in the United Kingdom and its registered address is Hilmore by the Group: House, Gain Lane, Bradford, BD3 7DL, United Kingdom.
International Financial Effective for accounting Reporting Standards periods starting on or after Basis of preparation IAS 1 Amendment to financial 1 July 2012 The financial statements have been prepared for the 53 weeks statement presentation ended 3 February 2013 2012: 52 weeks ended 29 January 2012 IAS 19 Amendment to employee 1 January 2013 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards benefits IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee interpretations IFRIC as adopted by the European IFRS 10 Consolidated financial 1 January 2013 Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable statements to companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS and IFRIC are issued IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2013 by the International Accounting Standards Board the IASB IFRS 12 Disclosures of interests in 1 January 2013 and must be adopted into European Union law, referred to other entities as endorsement, before they become mandatory under IFRS 10, Amendments in transition 1 January 2013 the IAS Regulation.
Shown below are recent standards and 11 and 12 guidance interpretations that have been issued by the IASB, indicating their status of endorsement.
IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013 IAS 27 Separate financial statements 1 January 2013 The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern revised 2011 basis.
The Directors assessment of going concern has been IAS 28 Associates and joint ventures 1 January 2013 considered within the general information section of the revised 2011 Directors report.
IFRS 7 Amendment to financial 1 January 2013 instruments: disclosures The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest million, except in some instances, IFRS 1 Amendment to first time 1 January 2013 where it is deemed relevant to disclose the amounts up to adoption two decimal places.
They are drawn up on the historical cost basis IAS 32 Amendment to financial 1 January 2014 of accounting, except as disclosed in the accounting policies set instruments: presentation out below.
Endorsed by the European Union.
Endorsed by the European Union for periods starting on or after The Groups accounting policies are set out below and have, 1 January 2014. unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
IAS 19 Employee benefits was amended in June 2011.
The impact on the Group will be immediately to recognise The following amendments to standards are mandatory for the all past service costs, and to replace interest cost and first time for the financial period beginning 30 January 2012, expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount but do not have a material impact on the Group: that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures benefit liability.
on transfers of assets: Amendment to IFRS 1, First time adoption, on fixed dates The application of these standards and interpretations is and hyperinflation: and not anticipated to have a material effect on the Groups financial statements.
Amendment to IAS 12, Income taxes, on deferred tax.
Basis of consolidation Accounting reference date The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial The accounting period of the Group ends on the Sunday statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together the falling between 29 January and 4 February each year.
Group, being those undertakings that it controls.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policy of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent Company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
64 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Significant accounting policies Other operating income The Directors consider the following to be significant accounting Other operating income primarily consists of income not directly policies in the context of the Groups operations: related to the operating of supermarkets and mainly comprises rental income from investment properties and income generated Segmental reporting from recycling of packaging.
Rental income arising from operating leases on investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line The Group is required to determine and present its operating basis to the date of the next rent review.
Details of rental income segments based on the way in which financial information is from investment property are provided in note 12. organised and reported to the chief operating decision-maker CODM.
The CODM has been identified as the Management Property transactions Board as it is this Board that makes the key operating decisions of the Group, is responsible for allocating resources and assess Property includes the balance sheet headings of property, performance of the operating segments.
plant and equipment and investment property.
The results of transactions relating to disposal of property are reported The Directors consider, based on its internal reporting framework, in profit for the period under profit loss arising on property management and operating structure, that it has one operating transactions.
Depreciation and any impairment charges or segment, that of retailing.
The level of disclosure of segmental and reversals are recognised in cost of sales or administrative other information is driven by such assessment.
Further details of expenses, as appropriate.
the considerations made and the resulting disclosures are provided in note 3 to these financial statements.
Borrowing costs All borrowing costs are recognised in the Groups profit for Turnover recognition the period on an effective interest rate basis except for interest Turnover comprises the fair value of consideration received or costs that are directly attributable to the construction of buildings receivable for the sale of goods in the ordinary course of the and other qualifying assets which are capitalised and included Groups activities.
It is recognised when significant risks and within the initial cost of the asset.
Capitalisation of interest ceases rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, there is when the asset is ready for use.
reasonable certainty of recovery of the consideration and the amount of revenue, associated costs and possible return Deferred and current tax of goods can be estimated reliably.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws in effect during the period and any adjustments to tax a Sale of goods in-store and fuel payable in respect of previous periods.
Taxable profit differs from Sale of goods in-store is recorded net of VAT, returns, staff the reported profit for the period as it is adjusted both for items discounts, coupons, vouchers and the free element of multi-save that will never be taxable or deductible, and temporary transactions.
Sale of fuel is recognised net of VAT and Morrisons differences.
Current tax is charged to profit for the period, except Miles award points.
Revenue is recognised when transactions are when it relates to items charged or credited directly in equity in completed in-store.
which case the current tax is reflected in equity.
b Other sales Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method.
Other revenue primarily comprises income from concessions and Provision is made for temporary differences between the carrying commissions based on the terms of the contract and amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes manufacturing sales made direct to third party customers and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
recognised on despatch of goods.
Revenue collected on behalf of others is not recognised as turnover, other than the related No deferred tax is recognised for temporary differences that arise commission.
Sales are recorded net of value added tax and on the initial recognition of goodwill or the initial recognition of intra-group transactions.
assets and liabilities that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profits.
Deferred tax is Cost of sales calculated based on tax law that is enacted or substantively Cost of sales consists of all costs to the point of sale including enacted at the reporting date and provided at rates expected to manufacturing, warehouse and transportation costs.
Store apply when the temporary differences reverse.
Deferred tax is depreciation, store overheads and store-based employee costs charged or credited to profit for the period except when it relates are also allocated to cost of sales.
to items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is reflected in other Supplier income comprehensive income.
Supplier incentives, rebates and discounts are collectively referred Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable to as supplier income in the retail industry.
Supplier income is that taxable profit will be available against which the asset can recognised as a deduction from cost of sales on an accruals basis, be utilised.
Deferred tax assets recognised are reviewed at based on the expected entitlement which has been earned up each reporting date as judgement is required to estimate the to the balance sheet date for each relevant supplier contract.
availability of future taxable income.
Deferred tax assets and The accrued incentives, rebates and discounts receivable at liabilities are offset where amounts will be settled on a net basis year end are included within prepayments and accrued income.
as there is a legally enforceable right to offset.
Where amounts received are in the expectation of future business, these are recognised in the income statement in Accruals for tax contingencies require management to make line with that future business.
judgements and estimates of ultimate exposures in relation to tax compliance issues.
All accruals are included in current liabilities.
65 Financial statements Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Group accounting policies continued Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment a Business combinations and goodwill a Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
business combinations by the Group.
The consideration Costs include directly attributable costs.
Annual reviews are transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value made of estimated useful lives and material residual values.
of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred b Depreciation rates used to write off cost less residual value on includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a straight line basis are: a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition related Freehold land 0% costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business Freehold buildings 2.5% combination are measured initially at their fair values at the Leasehold land Over the lease period acquisition date.
On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the Group Leasehold buildings Over the shorter of lease recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at period and 2.5% fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share Plant, equipment, fixtures 10% to 33% of the acquirees net assets.
and vehicles The excess of consideration transferred, the amount of any Assets under construction 0% non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the acquisition date Depreciation expense is primarily charged in cost of sales with an fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree over immaterial amount in administration expenses.
the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, in the case Investment property of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in Property held to earn rental income is classified as investment profit for the period.
Investment property is recorded at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Goodwill arising on a business combination is not amortised The depreciation policy is consistent with that described for but is reviewed for impairment on an annual basis or more property, plant and equipment.
frequently if there are indicators that goodwill may be impaired.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of Impairment of non-financial assets impairment testing.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in Property, plant and equipment, Investment property and profit or loss.
Amortisation is included within cost of sales.
Intangible assets are annually reviewed for indications of impairment, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate b Brands that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Brands acquired through a business combination are initially recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date and This is performed for each cash generating unit, which in the case amortised to profit or loss on a straight line basis over their of a supermarket is an individual retail outlet.
If there are estimated useful economic life.
Any impairment in value is indications of possible impairment then a test is performed on recognised immediately in profit or loss.
the asset affected to assess its recoverable amount against carrying value.
An impaired asset is written down to its c Software development costs recoverable amount which is the higher of value in use or its fair Costs that are directly attributable to the creation of identifiable value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated software, which meet the development asset recognition criteria future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a as laid out in IAS 38 Intangible assets are recognised as pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments intangible assets.
Direct costs include consultancy costs, the of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
employment costs of internal software developers and borrowing If there is indication of an increase in fair value of an asset costs.
Borrowing costs are capitalised until such time as the that had been previously impaired, then this is recognised software is substantially ready for its intended use.
by reversing the impairment, but only to the extent that the recoverable amount does not exceed the carrying amount that All other software development and maintenance costs are would have been determined if no impairment loss had been recognised as an expense as incurred.
Impairment losses previously recognised relating to goodwill cannot be reversed.
Software development costs recognised as assets are held at historic cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment, Stocks and are amortised over their estimated useful lives 3 to 10 years Stocks are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Provision is made for obsolete and slow moving items.
Cost is calculated on a weighted average basis and comprises purchase d Licences price, import duties and other non-recoverable taxes less rebates.
Separately acquired pharmaceutical licences and software Stocks represent goods for resale.
Net realisable value is the licences are recognised at historic cost less accumulated estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the amortisation and impairment.
Those acquired in a business estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
combination are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Pharmaceutical licences and software licences are amortised over their useful lives 3 to 10 years on a straight line basis.
66 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements Leases Retirement benefits Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of The Group operates defined benefit and defined contribution ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating schemes.
A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme leases: all other leases are classified as finance leases.
under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
A defined benefit scheme is one that is not a defined Lessor accounting operating leases contribution scheme.
Pension benefits under defined benefit schemes are defined on retirement based on age at date of Assets acquired and made available to third parties under retirement, years of service and a formula using either the operating leases are recorded as property, plant and equipment employees compensation package or career average and investment property and are depreciated on a straight line revalued earnings.
basis to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives.
Operating lease income is credited on a straight The Group operates two defined benefit retirement schemes line basis to the date of the next rent review.
which are funded by contributions from the Group and members.
The defined benefit schemes are not open to new members.
Lessee accounting operating leases Pension scheme assets, which are held in separate trustee Rental payments are taken to profit for the period on a straight administered funds, are valued at market rates.
Pension scheme line basis over the life of the lease.
Property leases are analysed obligations are measured on a discounted present value basis into separate components for land and buildings and tested to using assumptions as shown in note 20.
The operating and establish whether the components are operating leases or financing costs of the scheme are recognised separately in profit finance leases.
for the period when they arise.
Death-in-service costs are recognised on a straight line basis over their vesting period.
Lessee accounting finance leases Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other The present value, calculated using the interest rate implicit comprehensive income.
in the lease, of the future minimum lease payments is included within property, plant and equipment and financial liabilities as an The Group has a right to recognise an asset, should one arise, obligation to pay future rentals.
Depreciation is provided at the in respect of the Groups net obligations to the pension schemes.
same rates as for owned assets, or over the lease period, Therefore either an asset or a liability is recognised in the balance if shorter.
sheet, calculated separately for each scheme.
Rental payments are apportioned between the finance charge and The Group also operates a cash balance scheme, which provides a the outstanding obligation so as to produce a constant rate of lump sum benefit based upon a defined proportion of an finance charge on the remaining balance.
This scheme is defined benefit in nature and is accounted for on that basis.
Provisions Payments by the Group to the defined contribution scheme Provisions are created where the Group has a present obligation are charged to profit for the period as they arise.
as a result of a past event, where it is probable that it will result in an outflow of economic benefits to settle the obligation, and Share-based payments where it can be reliably measured.
The Group issues equity settled share-based payments to certain Provisions are made in respect of individual properties where employees in exchange for services rendered by them.
The fair there are obligations for onerous contracts, dilapidations and value of the share-based award is calculated at the date of grant certain decommissioning obligations for petrol filling stations.
and is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period The amounts provided are based on the Groups best estimate with a corresponding increase in equity.
This is based on the of the likely committed outflow to the Group.
Where material, Groups estimate of share options that will eventually vest.
these estimated outflows are discounted to net present value.
This takes into account movement of non-market conditions, being service conditions and financial performance, if relevant.
Foreign currencies Fair value is measured by use of a binomial stochastic model.
The Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on exchange at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet managements best estimate, for effects of non-transferability, date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
foreign currency are retranslated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are Financial instruments included in the income statement for the period except when they are deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups flow hedges.
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
67 Financial statements Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 Group accounting policies continued a Financial assets The Group has cross-currency swaps designated as cash flow i Trade and other debtors hedges.
These derivative financial instruments are used to match Trade and other debtors are initially recognised at fair value and or minimise risk from potential movements in foreign exchange subsequently held at amortised cost.
Provision is made when rates inherent in the cash flows of the US dollar private placement there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to loan notes.
recover balances in full, with the charge being included as an administrative expense.
Balances are written off when the To minimise the risk from potential movements in energy prices, probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
the Group has energy price contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
ii Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow purposes includes To minimise the risk from potential movements in foreign cash-in-hand, cash-at-bank and bank overdrafts.
In the balance exchange rates, the Group uses forward exchange contracts with sheet, bank overdrafts that do not have right of offset are financial institutions which are designated as cash flow hedges.
Derivatives are reviewed annually for effectiveness.
Where a Cash held by the Groups captive insurer is not available for use by derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the the rest of the Group as it is restricted for use against the specific variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or highly liability of the captive.
As the funds are available on demand, they probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or meet the definition of cash in IAS 7 Cashflow statements.
loss on the movement in fair value of the derivative financial instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and iii Investments presented in the hedging reserve in equity.
Investments comprise investments in equity instruments.
All equity instruments are held for long term investment and The gain or loss on any ineffective part of the hedge is are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, immediately recognised in profit for the period within cost of where the fair value can be measured reliably.
Where the fair sales in relation to the energy price contracts and within finance value of the instruments cannot be measured reliably, for income costs in relation to the cross-currency swaps.
If a hedge example, when there is variability in the range of estimates, of a forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition the investment will be recognised at cost less accumulated of a financial asset or liability, the associated cumulative gains or impairment losses, in accordance with IAS 39 Financial losses that were recognised directly in equity are reclassified into instruments: recognition and measurement.
Any impairment profit for the period when the transaction occurs.
is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Share capital b Financial liabilities Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly i Trade and other creditors attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in Trade and other creditors are initially recognised at fair value and equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
subsequently held at amortised cost.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share ii Borrowings capital, the consideration paid, including directly attributable Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair incremental costs, is deducted from retained earnings until the value, net of attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial shares are cancelled.
On cancellation, the nominal value of the recognition, any difference between the redemption value and the shares is deducted from share capital and the amount is initial carrying amount is recognised in profit for the period over transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Net debt c Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Net debt is cash and cash equivalents, long term cash on deposit, Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value bank and other current loans, finance lease debt, bonds, private and are remeasured at fair value through profit or loss, except placement loan notes and derivative financial instruments stated where the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the Own shares held relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, The Group has an employee trust for the granting of Group shares as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for to executives and members of the employee share plans.
Shares in undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also the Group held by the employee share trust are presented in the documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an balance sheet as a deduction from retained earnings.
ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair The shares are deducted for the purpose of calculating the values or cash flows of hedged items.
Cash flow hedges Use of critical accounting assumptions and estimates Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to variability based on historical experience and other factors, including in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly under the circumstances.
68 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
a Property provisions Provisions have been made for onerous leases, dilapidations and decommissioning costs.
These provisions are estimates based on the condition of each property and market conditions for the relevant location.
The actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events.
Any difference between expectations and the actual future liability is accounted for in the period when such determination is made.
b Pension scheme assumptions and mortality table The carrying value of defined benefit pension schemes is valued using actuarial valuations.
These valuations are based on assumptions including the selection of mortality tables for the profile of members in each scheme.
All these are estimates of future events.
The mortality experience study conducted as part of the Safeway scheme triennial valuation is statistically significant and the longevity assumption is adjusted to reflect its results.
As both of the Groups schemes have a similar composition and type of members, this adjustment is also made to the Morrisons scheme.
The mortality assumptions, financial assumptions and mortality experience study are based on advice received from the schemes actuaries.
Where appropriate these are corroborated from time-to-time with benchmark surveys and ad hoc analysis.
A sensitivity analysis of key assumptions is contained in note 20. c Determination of useful lives, residual values and carrying values of intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investment property Depreciation and amortisation are provided so as to write down the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as set out in the accounting policies for intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and investment property.
The selection of these residual values and estimated lives requires the exercise of judgement.
The Group is required to assess whether there is indication of impairment to the carrying values of assets.
In making that assessment, judgements are made in estimating value in use in relation to future cash flows and discount rates.
The Directors consider that the individual carrying values of stores and other operating assets are supportable either by value in use or market values.
Appropriate provision is made for impairment.
