Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements General information Directors report and business review Share capital Pages 2 to 58, inclusive, of this annual report and financial The authorised and called-up share capital of the Company, statements consist of a Directors report and business review that together with details of shares allotted and cancelled during the has been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in year, are shown in note 22 of the Group financial statements.
reliance on, English company law.
The liabilities of the Directors in connection with that Directors report and business review shall be At the AGM of the Company held in June 2012, a special resolution subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by the was passed to renew the authority given at the AGM held in June Companies Act 2006.
2011 for the purchase by the Company of up to 248,797,066 ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued Forward-looking statements ordinary share capital at that time.
This authority remained valid on 3 February 2013.
During the period, the Company purchased The Directors report and business review is prepared for the 185,805,022 of its own shares pursuant to that authority, which members of the Group and should not be relied upon by any other will expire at the close of the 2013 AGM.
party or for any other purpose.
Where the Directors report and business review includes forward-looking statements, these are In addition, 60,783 ordinary shares were issued during the period made by the Directors in good faith based on the information to employees exercising share options.
available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
Consequently, such statements should be treated with caution due Borrowing powers to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, underlying such forward-looking statements The Articles of Association of the Company restrict the borrowings and information.
of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings to a maximum amount equal to twice the share capital and consolidated reserves.
Result and dividend Substantial shareholdings The profit for the period after taxation attributable to the owners of the Group amounted to 647m 2011 12: 690m.
The As at 13 March 2013, the Company has been notified by the Directors have declared and recommend the following dividends: following shareholders excluding Directors that they have interests in 3% or more of the total voting rights in the Company: m Number of shares % of holding Paid interim dividend of 3.49p per share 84 2011 12: 3.17p Invesco 133,357,656 5.74% Recommended final dividend of 8.31p per share 195 Brandes Investment Partners LP 132,155,077 5.69% 2011 12: 7.53p Ameriprise Financial Inc 131,284,252 5.65% Nigel Pritchard 112,883,882 4.86% The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the Annual Walter Scott & Partners Limited 107,775,155 4.64% General Meeting AGM, is to be paid on 19 June 2013 to ordinary shareholders on the register of members at close of business on BlackRock Inc 107,035,375 4.61% 17 May 2013.
If the final dividend is approved by shareholders, the total ordinary dividend for the year will be 11.80p per share.
Legal & General Group Plc 104,976,462 4.52% Susan Pritchard 94,720,169 4.08% Auditor Zurich Financial Services 81,286,130 3.50% A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and a separate resolution to authorise the Directors to set their The number of shares appearing above is that appearing in the remuneration is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
relevant notification to the Company.
The percentage appearing above is the percentage that number represents of the issued share Annual General Meeting capital of the Company as at 13 March 2013.
The notice of the 2013 AGM of the Company to be held at the Companys headquarters at Gain Lane in Bradford on 13 June 2013 is to be sent to shareholders with an accompanying explanatory letter from the Chairman.
The Directors believe each of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are in the best interests of the Group and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of each of them.
Shareholders will also receive notification of the availability of the annual report and financial statements on the Groups website, unless they have positively elected to receive a printed version of the annual report and financial statements.
55 Governance Annual report and financial statements 2012 13 General information continued Relating to beneficial owners of shares with Disclosure of information to the auditor information rights The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there registered holder of those shares to receive information rights is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditor is under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he or she ought direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars, or to relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor the Group directly.
is aware of that information.
Directors Going concern The current Directors of the Group and their biographies are shown The Directors assessment of the Group and the Companys ability on pages 38 and 39. to continue as a going concern has taken into consideration the effect that the current economic climate has on the Group.
In line with the best practice guidance of Provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has resolved that all The Groups ability to borrow cash has not been adversely affected Directors will submit themselves for re-election annually.
by the continuing lack of liquidity in the financial markets and the Group has negotiated, and has available to it, committed, Accordingly, all of the current Directors, being eligible, will offer competitive facilities that will meet the Groups needs in the short themselves for re-election at the 2013 AGM.
The interests of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the The principal risks that the Group is challenged with have been Company and their immediate families in the shares of the set out on pages 28 and 29, along with how the Directors mitigate Company, along with share options, are contained in the Directors these risks in the current economic climate.
remuneration report set out on pages 45 to 54.
After reviewing the Groups financial forecasts, including an At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material assessment of working capital and other medium term plans, the interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of Directors are confident that the Company and the Group have its subsidiaries.
adequate financial resources available to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The going concern basis Employee relations has continued to be adopted in the preparation of the financial statements.
Morrisons is an equal opportunities employer.
Equal opportunities are offered to all regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, Payment to creditors sex including gender reassignment, marital or civil partnership status, disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age or trade Supplier credit is an important factor in the success of the business.
It is Group policy to ensure all payments are made within mutually agreed credit terms.
Where disputes arise, the Group attempts The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for to sort these out promptly and amicably to ensure delays in employment made by people with disabilities.
The policy is to offer payment are kept to a minimum.
Trade creditors for the Group equal opportunity to all disabled candidates and employees who at the financial year end represented 30 days of purchases have a disability or become disabled in any way during the course 2011 12: 30 days.
A full assessment of the individuals needs is undertaken and reasonable adjustments are made to the work Groceries Supply Code of Practice environment or practices in order to assist those with disabilities.
The Groceries Supply Code of Practice GSCOP came into effect on 4 February 2010 and applies to all grocery retailers with an All candidates and employees are treated equally in respect of annual turnover in excess of 1bn.
recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies and conditions.
All decisions are based on relevant merits The Group undertook a number of measures to ensure compliance and abilities.
before commencement, including appointing a Code Compliance Officer CCO, amending its standard Terms & Conditions of Political and charitable donations Purchase to incorporate the GSCOP, and undertaking a full training During the period, the Group made charitable donations amounting regime for its buyers and associated supporting colleagues.
The donations were mainly small the last year the Group has built on its initial work by undertaking donations to support local communities.
In addition, the Group a second full re-training programme for all relevant colleagues.
The supported various charities and, in the year, over 2.1m 2011 12: Group has also had all of its supporting processes reviewed during 2.3m was raised by customers and colleagues for the Charity of the year by the Internal Audit team.
No political donations were made, which is Group policy.
Alleged breaches were dealt with in accordance with the regulations and escalated internally up to and including the CCO where required.
These matters are reported to the Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee.
Since the GSCOP came into effect the Group has successfully worked with suppliers to resolve disputes that have arisen with 56 Performance and strategy review Governance Financial statements reference to its provisions.
Details of such disputes have been interests in their voting shares and they or any interested person reported to the Office of Fair Trading OFT periodically on request failed to supply the Company with the information requested within as part of the OFTs monitoring.
Ten matters have been reported by 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide Morrisons to the OFT two carried over from the previous financial that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and year.
Of those, eight were withdrawn by suppliers or resolved and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These two reported during the period were unresolved at the year end.
restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice No matters reported during the financial year progressed to of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required arbitration during the period.
by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
As initially intended, the Government has appointed an Adjudicator The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share through new legislation to oversee the operation of the GSCOP.
which is not a fully paid share, although such discretion may not be The Group looks forward to working with the Adjudicator to ensure exercised in a way which the Financial Services Authority regards that it adheres to best practice and remains in line with new guidance.
as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more Health and safety policy than four persons jointly.
The Company is not aware of any other It is the Groups intention, so far as is reasonably practicable, restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than to ensure the health, safety and welfare of all its employees, certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws customers and visitors to its premises.
In order to achieve this, and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
a comprehensive health and safety manual is in place for each division of the Company and subsidiary companies within the The Company is not aware of any agreements between Group.
Each health and safety manual contains the policy and shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of procedures for complying with the Health and Safety at Work Act securities or voting rights.
1974, including the provision, based on risk assessment, of safe working practices for all work activities across the Group.
The Appointment and powers of Directors Groups health and safety policy is approved by the Management Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting Board.
The Group has adopted the national targets set by the of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint Health and Safety Commission for the reduction of workplace a Director during the year, but any person so appointed must be put accidents and work-related ill health, and is on course to meet or up for appointment at the next AGM.
Health and safety performance is monitored to ensure continuous improvement in all areas.
Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law, and to such direction as may be given by the Company in general Additional shareholder information meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company shall Additional information for shareholders is required by the be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK law.
Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required to disclose certain additional information.
Such Articles of Association disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in this report, include The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by the following paragraphs.
The disclosures set out below are in some a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
cases a summary of the relevant provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and the relevant full provisions can be found Other disclosures in the Articles which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
There are no persons with whom the Group has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares the Group.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the The Company is not party to any significant arrangements which Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company following a takeover bid.
Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as the Directors The Company does not have any employee share schemes may determine.
where the shares to which the scheme relates have rights with regard to the control of the Company which are not exercisable At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote by employees.
on a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting By order of the Board rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to Mark Amsden attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they Company Secretary or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice 13 March 2013 under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to 57
