Financials Independent auditors report to the members of Wolseley plc We have audited the Company Financial Statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2013 which comprise the Company Profit and Loss Account, the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 86 the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Company Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with the terms of our engagement and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Company Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Company Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Company Financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Company Financial Statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our opinion In our opinion the Company Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 July 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: and have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Opinion on other matters In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Company Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Company Financial Statements.
At the request of the Directors, we have also audited the part of the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Wolseley plc for the year ended 31 July 2013.
Stuart Watson for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants London 30 September 2013 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 165
