Forward-looking statements Certain information included in this Annual Report and Accounts is forward-looking and involves risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements.
Forwardlooking statements cover all matters which are not historical facts and include, without limitation, projections relating to results of operations and financial conditions and the Companys plans and objectives for future operations, including, without limitation, discussions of expected future revenues, financing plans, expected expenditures and divestments, risks associated with changes in market conditions and pressures on margins, changes in the level of litigation, employee motivation, the performance and resilience of the Companys systems and infrastructure, the level of government regulation and financial risks such as fluctuations in exchange and interest rates.
Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forwardlooking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, plans, projects, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report and Accounts are based upon information known to the Company on the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only at their respective dates.
Additionally, forward-looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Other than in accordance with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules, the Prospectus Rules, the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, the Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts shall exclude any liability under applicable laws that cannot be excluded in accordance with such laws.
Wolseley plc 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Credits Printing Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar Printed by Pureprint Group.
The printing inks are www.
com made with non-hazardous vegetable oil from renewable sources.
Over 90 per cent of solvents Board and location photography by Andy Wilson and developers are recycled for further use and recycling initiatives are in place forallother waste Paper associated with this production.
Pureprint Group is This report is printed on Amadeus 50 Silk paper FSC with strict procedures in place to safeguard and cover board, with Amadeus 100 offset used the environment through all processes.
Amadeus 50 Silk is made The greenhouse gas emissions from the production from 25% fide-inked post-consumer waste, and distribution of this Annual Report and Accounts 25%unprinted pre-consumer wasteand have been neutralised through The Gold Standard 50%virgin bre.
Basa Magogo offsetting project in South Africa.
Amadeus 100 offset is made from 100 per cent The first Gold Standard project of its kind in the fide-inked post consumer waste.
Both products world, this innovative behaviour-change programme arefully biodegradable and teaches local communities in South Africa to burn recyclable and produced coal differently in order to be more fuel efficient, inmillswhich hold IS0 9001 thereby reducing carbon emissions.
called Basa Magogo, means Light it up!
In addition to the emission reductions, the Basa Magogo technique also improves visibility and reduces health risks by producing less smoke.
Wolseley plc Registered Ofce 26 New Street St Helier Jersey JE2 3RA Channel Islands Registration No.
106605 Jersey Corporate Headquarters Grafenauweg 10 CH-6301 Zug Switzerland Telephone 41 0 41 723 2230 Fax 41 0 41 723 2231 www.
com Follow us on Twitter @wolseleyplc
