Our 2013 financial statements Accounting policies he consolidated financial statements of WPP Basis of consolidation plc anditssubsidiaries theGroup for the year ended 31December 2013 have been In January 2013, pursuant to a Scheme of T prepared inaccordance withInternational Arrangement under Article 25 of the Companies Financial Reporting Standards IFRS asadopted Jersey Law 1991, a new parent company was bythe European Union as they apply to the financial introduced which is now called WPP plc.
The statements of theGroup for the year ended previous parent company has been renamed and 31December 2013. re-registered as WPP 2012 Limited.
The introduction The Groups financial statements have also been of a new holding company constitutes a Group prepared inaccordance withInternational Financial reconstruction and has been accounted for using Reporting Standards asissuedby the International merger accounting principles.
Accordingly, the results Accounting Standards Board.
of the Group for the entire year ended 31 December 2013 are shown in the consolidated income statement and the comparative figures for the years Basis of preparation ended 31 December 2012 and 2011 are also prepared on this basis.
Earnings per share are unaffected by The consolidated financial statements have been the reorganisation.
prepared under the historical costconvention, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments.
Theprincipal accounting policies are set out below.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 191 Our 2013 financial statements Accounting policies The consolidated financial statements include brand names, their proven ability tomaintain market theresults ofthe Company and allits subsidiary leadership and profitable operations overlong undertakings made upto the same accounting date.
periods of time and the Groups commitment to All intra-Group balances, transactions, income develop and enhance their value.
The carrying value andexpenses are eliminated in full onconsolidation.
of these intangible assets is reviewed at least annually Theresults ofsubsidiary undertakings acquired for impairment and adjusted to the recoverable ordisposed ofduring the period are included or amount ifrequired.
excluded from the consolidated income statement Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to fromtheeffective date of acquisition or disposal.
write offthe cost less estimated residual value of each asset on astraight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: Goodwill and other intangible assets Brand names with finite lives 10-20 years.
Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain Other proprietary tools 3-10 years.
acquiredseparable corporate brand names, acquired Other including capitalised computer software , acquired proprietary tools 3-5 years.
and capitalised computer software not integral to arelated item of hardware.
Goodwill represents the excess of fair value Contingent consideration attributed toinvestments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings overthe fair value of the underlying Contingent consideration is accounted for in netassets, including intangible assets, at the date accordance withIFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken of contingent consideration earnout agreements are annually ormore frequently if events or changes initially recorded at fair value which is the present incircumstances indicate a potential impairment.
value of the expected cash outflows of the obligations.
Thecarrying value of goodwill is compared to the The obligations are dependent on the future financial netpresent value of future cashflows derived from performance of the interests acquired typically over theunderlying assets using a projection period of up afourto five-year period following the year of to five years for each cash-generating unit.
After the acquisition and assume the operating companies projection period a steady growth rate representing improve profits in line with directors estimates.
anappropriate long-term growth rate for theindustry Thedirectors derive their estimates from internal is applied.
Any impairment is recognised immediately business plans together with financial due diligence as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
performed in connection with the acquisition.
Corporate brand names, customer relationships Subsequent adjustments to the fair value are and proprietary tools acquired as part of acquisitions recorded inthe consolidated income statement of businesses are capitalised separately from goodwill withinrevaluation offinancial instruments.
For as intangible assets if their value can be measured acquisitions completed prior to1January 2010, reliably on initial recognition and it is probable suchadjustments are recorded in the consolidated thatthe expected future economic benefits that balance sheet within goodwill.
areattributable to the asset will flow to the Group.
Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered to have an indefinite economic life because of the institutional nature of the corporate 192 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our 2013 financial statements Accounting policies Property, plant and equipment investment.
This process includes comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost The Group accounts for joint venture investments lessaccumulated depreciation and any provision under the equity method which is consistent with the forimpairment with the exception of freehold land Groups treatment of associates.
The Group assesses the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment to determine if any impairment has occurred.
Wherethis Other investments indicates that an asset may be impaired, the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Other investments are designated as available for Assets inassessing thecarrying amount of the asset.
sale and are shown at fair value with any movements This process includes comparing its recoverable in fair value taken to equity.
amount with its carrying value.
Depreciation is On disposal the cumulative gain or loss provided at rates calculated towrite offthe cost less previously recognised in equity is included in estimated residual value of each asseton a straight-line theprofit or loss for theyear.
basis over its estimated useful life, asfollows: Freehold buildings 50 years.
Leasehold land and buildings over the term Inventory and work in progress ofthe lease or life of the asset, if shorter.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-10 years.
Work in progress is valued at cost, which includes Computer equipment 3-5 years.
outlays incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete assignments.
Provision Interests in associates and joint ventures is made for irrecoverable costs where appropriate.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net An associate is an entity over which the Group realisable value.
In certain circumstances, significant influence may be represented by factors other than ownership and voting rights, such Trade receivables asrepresentation on the Board of Directors.
The Groups share of the profits less losses of Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for associate undertakings net of tax, interest and nonbadand doubtful debts.
controlling interests is included in the consolidated income statement andthe Groups share of net assetsis shown within interests in associates in the Foreign currency and interest rate hedging consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups share of the profits less losses and net assets is based on current The Groups policy on interest rate and foreign information produced by the undertakings, adjusted exchange rate management sets out the instruments to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
and methods available to hedge interest and currency The Group assesses the carrying value of its risk exposures andthe control procedures in place associate undertakings to determine if any impairment toensure effectiveness.
Where this indicates that an investment The Group uses derivative financial instruments may be impaired, theGroup applies the requirements to reduceexposure to foreign exchange risk and of IAS 36 in assessing thecarrying amount of the interest rate movements.
The Group does not WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 193 Our 2013 financial statements Accounting policies holdorissue derivative financial instruments At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the forspeculative purposes.
hedging instrument recognised in equity is retained Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at inequity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If the datea derivative contract is entered into and are ahedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each thenet cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity balance sheet date.
Theresulting gain or loss is istransferred to net profit or loss for the period.
recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the Derivatives embedded in other financial derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instruments or other host contracts are treated instrument, in which event the timing of the asseparate derivatives when their risks and recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature characteristics are not closely related to those of host ofthe hedge relationship.
contracts and the host contracts are not carried at At the inception of the hedge relationship the fairvalue with unrealised gains or losses reported entity documents the relationship between the inthe consolidated income statement.
hedging instrument and hedged item, along with itsrisk management objectives and its strategy forundertaking various hedge transactions.
Liabilities in respect of option agreements Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and onanongoing basis, the Group documents whether Option agreements that allow the Groups equity the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging partners torequire the Group to purchase a nonrelationship is highly effective in offsetting changes controlling interest are treated as derivatives over in fair values or cash flows ofthe hedged item.
equity instruments and are recorded in the Note 25 contains details of the fair values of consolidated balance sheet at fair value and the thederivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
valuation is remeasured at each period end.
Fair Changes in the fair value of derivatives that value isbased on the present value of expected aredesignated and qualify as fair value hedges are cashoutflows and themovement inthe fair recorded in profit or lossimmediately, together with valueisrecognised as income or expense within any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that revaluation of financial instruments in the is attributable to the hedged risk.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow or netinvestment hedges is deferred in equity.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion isrecognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: deferred in equity are recycled inprofit or loss in the Recognition and Measurement, a financial liability periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit of the Group is only released to the consolidated or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that income statement when the underlying legal is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial obligation is extinguished.
asset or a non-financial liability, the gains andlosses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of Convertible debt thecost ofthe asset or liability.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Convertible debt is assessed according to the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or substance of thecontractual arrangements and is exercised, or nolonger qualifies for hedge accounting.
classified into liability and equity elements on the 194 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our 2013 financial statements Accounting policies basis of the initial fair value oftheliability element.
oras a principal in an arrangement with a client.
The difference between this figure and the cash Where we act as an agent, the revenue recorded is the received is classified as equity.
net amount retained when the fee or commission is The consolidated income statement charge for earned.
Although the Group may bear credit risk in thefinance cost is spreadevenly over the term of the respect of these activities, the arrangements with our convertible debt so that atredemption the liability clients are such that weconsider that we are acting as equals the redemption value.
Insuch cases, costs incurred with external suppliers such asmedia suppliers are excluded from our revenue.
Where theGroup acts as Other debt a principal and contracts directly with suppliers for media payments and production costs, the revenue Other interest-bearing debt is recorded at the recorded is the gross amount billed.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element related to quantitative targets, revenue is recognised Borrowing costs when the quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element related to qualitative targets, revenue is Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the recognised when theincentive is received or receivable.
consolidated income statement over the term of The Group receives volume rebates from certain thoseborrowings.
suppliers for transactions entered into on behalf of clients that, based on the terms of the relevant contracts and local law, are either remitted to clients Revenue recognition or retained by the Group.
If amounts are passed onto clients they are recorded as liabilities until Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in settledor, if retained by the Group, are recorded respect ofamounts billed.
Direct costs include fees asrevenue when earned.
paid to external suppliers where they are retained toperform part or all of aspecific project for a client Data Investment Management and the resulting expenditure is directly attributable to the revenue earned.
Revenue is stated exclusive Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of ofVAT, sales taxes and trade discounts.
service performed for market research contracts is based on proportional performance.
In assessing Advertising and Media Investment Management contract performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
Costs incurred areused as an objective Revenue is typically derived from commissions on input measure of performance.
The primary input media placements and fees for advertising services.
ofall work performed under these arrangements is Revenue may consist of various arrangements labour.
As a result of the relationship between labour involving commissions, fees, incentive-based revenue and cost, there is normally adirect relationship or a combination of the three, as agreed upon with between costs incurred and the proportion of each client.
Costs incurred Revenue is recognised when the service is asaproportion of expected total costs isused performed, inaccordance with the terms of the  performance measure.
The amount of revenue Thisindicative proportional performance measure recognised depends on whether we act as an agent  against other more WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 195 Our 2013 financial statements Accounting policies subjective criteria i. e. relevant output measures Taxation suchas the percentage of interviews completed, percentage of reports delivered to a clientand the Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at achievement ofany project milestones stipulated in current rates.
The tax expense represents the sum the contract.
In the event of divergence betweenthe ofthe tax currently payable and deferred tax.
objective andmore subjective measures, the more The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a subjective measures take precedence since these number ofdifferent jurisdictions and judgement is areoutput measures.
required in determining the appropriate provision While most of the studies provided in connection fortransactions wherethe ultimate tax withtheGroups market research contracts are determination is uncertain.
In such circumstances, undertaken in response to an individual clients or the Group recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes group of clients specifications, in certain instances based on the best information available and where astudy may be developed as an off-the-shelf product the anticipated liability is both probable and offering sold to a broad client base.
Such liabilities are classified as current transactions, revenue is recognised when the product when the Group expects tosettle the liability within is delivered.
Where the terms of transaction provide 12 months and the remainder as non-current.
for licensing the product on a subscription basis, Anyinterest and penalties accrued are included revenue is recognised over the subscription period on inincome taxes both in the consolidated income a straight-line basis or, if applicable, based on usage.
Where the final Substantially all services are provided on a fixed outcome of suchmatters differs from the amount price basis.
Pricing may also include a provision for recorded, anydifferences may impact the income asurcharge where the actual labour hours incurred in taxand deferred tax provisions in theperiod in completing a project are significantly above the labour which the final determination is made.
hours quoted in theproject proposal.
In instances The tax laws that apply to the Groups where this occurs, the surcharge will be included in the subsidiaries may be amended by the relevant tax total revenue base on whichto measure proportional authorities.
Such potential amendments are regularly performance when the actualthreshold is reached monitored and adjustments are made to the Groups provided that collectability isreasonably assured.
tax liabilities and deferred tax assets and liabilities where necessary.
Public Relations & Public Affairs and Branding The tax currently payable is based on taxable & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net Communications profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees expense that are taxable or deductible in other years andservices tobe performed subject to specific and it further excludes items that are never taxable agreement.
Revenue is recognised when the service or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax isperformed, in accordance withthe terms of the iscalculated using tax rates that have been enacted contractual arrangement.
Revenue is recognised or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
onlong-term contracts, if the final outcome can Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable beassessed with reasonable certainty, by including orrecoverable on differences between the carrying inthe consolidated income statement revenue amounts ofassets and liabilities in the financial andrelated costs ascontract activity progresses.
statements and the corresponding tax bases used inthecomputation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred 196 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Our 2013 financial statements Accounting policies tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary Retirement benefit costs differences unless specifically excepted by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is charged or credited The Group accounts for retirement benefit inthe consolidated income statement, except when costsinaccordance with IAS 19 amended : itrelates to items charged or credited to other Employee Benefits.
comprehensive income or directly to equity, in For defined contribution plans, contributions whichcase the deferred tax is also dealt with in other arecharged to the consolidated income statement comprehensive income or equity.
Deferred tax assets aspayable in respect of the accounting period.
are recognised to the extent that it is probable that For defined benefit plans the amounts charged taxable profits will be available against which tooperating profit are the current service costs, past deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
service costs, administrative expenses and gains and Suchassets and liabilities are not recognised if the losses on settlements and curtailments.
They are temporary difference arises from the initial recognition included as part of staff costs.
Past service costs are of goodwill or other assets and liabilities other than recognised immediately in the consolidated income ina business combination in a transaction that affects statement when the related plan amendment occurs.
neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.
The interest cost on pension plan liabilities and The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is expected return on plan assets reported in previous reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to years have been replaced with a net interest amount the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient which is shown within finance costs.
The net interest taxable profits will be available to allow all or part is calculated by applying the discount rate to the ofthe asset to be recovered.
recognised overall surplus or deficit in the plan.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable Actuarial gains and losses are recognised temporary differences arising on investments in immediately in the consolidated statement of subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint comprehensive income.
ventures, except where the Group is able to control Where defined benefit plans are funded, the the reversal of the temporary difference and it is assetsof the plan are held separately from those probable that the temporary difference will not ofthe Group, in separate independently managed reverse in the foreseeable future.
Pension plan assets are measured at fair value Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis there is a legally enforceable right to set off current using the projected unit method and discounted tax assets against current tax liabilities and when atarate equivalent to the current rate of return they relate to income taxes levied by the same onahigh-quality corporate bond of equivalent taxation authority and the Group intends to settle currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The itscurrent tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that and areupdated at each balance sheet date.
areexpected to apply in the period when the liability Recognition of a surplus in a defined benefit plan is settled orthe asset is realised based on enacted is limited based on the economic gain the Company orsubstantively enacted legislation.
Deferred tax is expected to benefit from in the future by means ischarged or credited in theconsolidated income ofa refund or reduction in future contributions to statement, except when it relates toitems charged the plan, in accordance with IAS 19 amended : orcredited directly to equity or the consolidated Employee Benefits.
statement of comprehensive income, in which casethe deferred tax is also dealt with in equity or the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013 197 Our 2013 financial statements Accounting policies Finance leases asassets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closingrate.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets ofthe Group at the inception of the lease at thelower oftheirfair value and the present value Share-based payments ofthe minimum leasepayments.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged tothe consolidated income The Group issues equity-settled share-based statement on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments including share options to certain payments are treated as consisting ofcapital and employees and accounts for these awards in interest elements and the interest is charged tothe accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment.
consolidated income statement as it is incurred.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured atfair value excluding the effect of non-marketbased vesting conditions at the date of grant.
Details Operating leases regarding thefair value of equity settled share-based transactions areset out innotes 22 and 26.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the The fair value determined at the grant date is consolidated income statement on a straight-line recognisedin the consolidated income statement as basis over the lease term.
Any premium or discount anexpense on a straight-line basisover the relevant on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life vesting period, based onthe Groups estimate of the ofthe lease on a straight-line basis.
number of shares that will ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect ofnon-market-based vesting conditions.
Translation of foreign currencies New IFRS accounting pronouncements Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the At the date of authorisation of these financial date of thetransaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities statements, the following Standards and denominated in foreign currencies at the year end are Interpretations, which have not been applied in these translated at the year-end exchange rate.
Foreign financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: currency gains and losses arecredited or charged IFRS 9: Financial Instruments: totheconsolidated income statement as they arise.
IFRS 14: Regulatory Deferral Accounts: and The income statements of overseas subsidiary IAS 32 amended : Financial Instruments: undertakings are translated into pounds sterling at Presentation.
averageexchange rates and the year-end net assets The Group does not consider that these Standards ofthesecompanies are translated at year-end and Interpretations will have a significant impact on exchange rates.
the financial statements of the Group except for Exchange differences arising from retranslation additional disclosures when the relevant standards ofthe opening net assets and on foreign currency come into effect.
borrowings tothe extent that they hedge the Groups In the current year, the following Standards and investment in suchoperations are reported in the Interpretations became effective: consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements: Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising IFRS 11: Joint Arrangements: onthe acquisition of a foreign entity are treated IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities: IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement: 198 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2013
