164 Investor Information For more investor Investor Information information visit: www.
com investors American Depositary Receipts ADRs International payment service WS Atkins plc The Company has a Level 1 ADR for dividends Registered in England programme.
This enables US investors Capita Registrars offers shareholders Company no.
1885586 to purchase the Companys American a service to convert sterling dividends into Depositary Shares ADSs.
Each ADS certain local currencies.
This service provides Company secretaries represents one ordinary share.
faster access to funds and will generally and registered office cost less than the fees charged by your Richard Webster Helen Baker JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. acts as an local bank.
For further information, WS Atkins plc ADR depositary bank.
please contact the registrar address above.
Woodcote Grove Telephone: 44 0 20 8639 3405 Ashley Road For the issuance and management of if calling from outside the UK or Epsom ADRs, and any general ADR questions, 0871 664 0385 if calling from the Surrey KT18 5BW please contact: UK calls cost 10p per minute plus any England additional network charges : lines are JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. open 0900 to 1730 Monday to Friday, Financial calendar P. O.
Box 64504 or email: IPS@capitaregistrars.
com St. Paul or visit the registrars website: Ex-dividend date 17 July 2013 Minnesota 55164-0504 www.
Record date 19 July 2013 USA Last day to elect for DRIP 24 July 2013 Dividend reinvestment plan DRIP Annual General Meeting 31 July 2013 Investor helpline: 800-990-1135 if calling The Company offers a dividend reinvestment Final dividend from the US toll free or 1-651-453-2128 plan to shareholders as a cost-efficient payment date 23 August 2013 if calling from outside the US.
way of increasing their shareholding in the Company.
Should you wish to participate Shareholder services Website: www.
com in the DRIP please contact the registrar on Registrar the telephone number given above to Enquiries and notifications concerning Investor relations website request a mandate form and an explanatory dividends, share certificates, transfers and Many commonly asked shareholders booklet.
Your completed mandate form address changes should be sent to the questions are addressed in the investor must be received by the registrar no later registrar, whose address is: relations section of our website: than 24 July 2013 if you wish your final www.
dividend for the year to be reinvested to Capita Registrars buy additional shares.
The Registry E-communications 34 Beckenham Road Shareholders can choose to receive all Amalgamation of accounts Beckenham Company communications electronically.
Shareholders who receive duplicate sets Kent This environmentally friendly way of of Company mailings owing to multiple BR3 4TU receiving information has a number of accounts in their name should contact advantages including speedier delivery of the registrar to have their accounts Telephone: 0871 664 0300 if calling from documents and the ability to access reports amalgamated.
the UK calls cost 10p per minute plus and results on the internet wherever you are.
any additional network charges or To register please visit our share portal at 44 0 20 8639 3399 if calling from outside www.
the UK: lines are open 0900 to 1730 Monday to Friday.
Other shareholder enquiries should be addressed to Atkins company secretary at the registered office.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Investor Information 165 Unsolicited mail know when dividends are paid and If you are offered unsolicited investment The Company is obliged by law to make its consider having your dividend paid directly advice, discounted shares, a premium price share register available to third parties who into your bank account.
This will reduce for shares you own, or free company or may then use it for a mailing list.
If you the risk of the cheque being intercepted research reports, you should take these are a UK shareholder and you wish to limit or lost in the post.
If you change your steps before handing over any money: receipt of unsolicited mail you may do so bank account, inform the registrar of the 1. get the name of the person and by registering with the Mailing Preference details of your new account.
You can organisation contacting you Service MPS.
Registration can be made do this by post or online using our share 2. check the Financial Services Register online at www.
Respond to any letters the registrar sends reporting register search to ensure you about this they are authorised Giving your shares to charity if you receive a letter from the registrar 3. use the details on the FSR to contact If you only have a small number of shares regarding a change of address or a the firm whose value makes it uneconomic to sell dividend instruction but have not recently 4. if you are based in the UK, call the them, you may wish to consider donating moved or requested a change to how Financial Conduct Authority FCA them to charity though ShareGift, an you receive your dividends please contact Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 independent share donation scheme.
them immediately as you may have been if there is no telephone number on The relevant share transfer form can be a victim of identity theft the FSR or you are told it is out of date obtained from the registrar.
ShareGift 5. search the FCAs list of known if you are buying or selling shares only is administered by The Orr Mackintosh unauthorised firms and individuals deal with brokers registered in your Foundation, registered charity number to avoid doing business with country of residence or the UK.
Further information may be 6. remember: if it sounds too good to obtained on 44 0 20 7930 3737 or be true, it probably is.
Warning to shareholders from www.
Share fraud includes scams where investors If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or are called out of the blue and offered shares Identity theft sell shares or other investments, you will not that often turn out to be worthless or Identity theft is on the increase.
Criminals have access to the Financial Ombudsman non-existent, or an inflated price for shares may steal your personal information, putting Service or Financial Services Compensation that they own.
These calls come from your Atkins shareholding at risk.
Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
Tips for protecting your Atkins shares: If you are approached about a share ensure all your certificates are kept scam you should tell the FCA using While high profits are promised, those in a safe place or hold your shares the share fraud reporting form at who buy or sell shares in this way usually electronically in CREST via a nominee www.
uk consumers scams, where lose their money.
The Financial Services you can find out about the latest investment keep all correspondence from the registrar Authority found most share fraud victims scams.
If you are based in the UK, you can that shows your shareholder reference are experienced investors who lose an also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on number in a safe place, or destroy your average of 20,000, with around 200m 0800 111 6768. correspondence by shredding it lost in the UK each year.
if you change address inform the registrar If you have already paid money to share in writing or via our share portal at fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud www.
uk or, if you are based in the UK, by telephone on 0300 123 2040.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Investor Information 166 Investor Information You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive shareholder communications online at www.
com investors To help you find the information youre looking for, the key features of our investor relations website are highlighted below.
Reports Corporate responsibility Our reports can be accessed Find out more about our and or downloaded from here.
Corporate Responsibility strategy and performance by visiting Investor presentations this section of our website.
Links to results presentations, videos, press releases Alerts and webcasts.
Receive automated announcements and news by Shareholders queries signing up to our alerting service.
We provide a number of services to help our shareholders Latest financial news manage their holdings, keep Access our latest financial up to date with our progress press releases here.
Share price Charts showing share price activity.
Register for ecomms You can help us to reduce our environmental impact by opting to receive electronic versions of shareholder communications ecomms.
We will donate 1 to RedR Register for Engineers for Disaster Relief for each shareholder who chooses this method of communication.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Notes 167 Notes WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Notes 168 Notes Notes WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 G G o o o o d d r r ee ss u u ltlt s, s, d d ee ss p p itit ee cc h h al alle le ng ng ee ss i n in s s o o m m ee m m ar ar kk ee tt ss..
This Annual Report is printed on Cocoon Offset 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste and manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001.
It is PCF Process Chlorine Free, totally recyclable You c You a n h can e lh p u elp s t uo r s te od ru ec du e o ce u r e oun r v ein ro vn irm on em nte an l tal and has biodegradable NAPM recycled certification.
imp im ac pt b acy o t by p to in pg t ting o r te oc r eeiv ce s eivh ea srh ear ho elh do elrd er The Atkins logo, Carbon Critical Design and the strapline Plan Design Enable com co m m un miu cn at ic io an tis o o nn s lo in ne li at ne at are trademarks of Atkins Limited, a WS Atkins plc company.
k ain tks in gs lo gb lo ab l. a co l. c m o m in v in ev se to st ro srs WS Atkins plc except where stated otherwise.
Designed and produced by The College www.
com WW S A S tA kitn ks p insl c pl A cn A nn un au l R ale R pe op rt 2 ort0 2 10 313 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 info@atkinsglobal.
com Annual Report 2013 By printing 2,000 copies of this Report on Cocoon Offset 100% recycled paper the environmental impact was reduced by: 1,432 kg of landfill 28,118 litres of water 2,639 kWh of electricity 267 kg CO and greenhouse gases 2 2,326 kg of wood Source: Carbon footprint data evaluated by FactorX in accordance with the Bilan Carbone methodology.
Calculations are based on a comparison between the recycled paper used versus a virgin fibre paper according to the latest European BREF data virgin fibre paper available.
Results are obtained according to technical information and are subject to modification.
