106 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements For the year ended 31 March 2013 1.
Accounting policies WS Atkins plc the Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered office is Woodcote Grove, Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey, KT18 5BW, England.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, including the application of new International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and interpretations, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements of WS Atkins plc have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 that applies to companies reporting under IFRS, and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of availablefor-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
Material estimates applied across the Groups businesses and joint ventures are reviewed to a common standard and adjusted where appropriate to ensure that consistent treatment of similar and related issues that require judgement is achieved upon consolidation.
Any revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed under critical accounting policies and are incorporated by reference in the Business Review page 38.
Going concern The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated Income Statement and Balance Sheet include the accounts of the Company, its subsidiary undertakings and its share of joint ventures.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the date of acquisition.
The results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement up to the date of disposal.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations.
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairments.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date irrespective of any non-controlling interest.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the cost of the acquisition is lower than the fair value of net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Goodwill is reviewed on finalisation of fair values and any adjustments required to the accounting are recorded within 12 months of the acquisition date.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Where subsidiaries adopt accounting policies that are different from the Groups, their reported results are restated to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Where subsidiaries do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Groups, results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Groups accounting reference date.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 107 Joint ventures In accordance with IAS 31, Interests in joint ventures, the Group accounts for joint ventures under the equity method of accounting.
The Groups share of a joint ventures profit after tax is included from the date on which the Group acquires joint control.
Within the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the investment is recorded at cost classified as a non-current asset and subsequently adjusted to reflect the Groups share of the movements in the joint ventures net assets post acquisition.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures are stated in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Where joint ventures adopt accounting policies that are different from the Groups, their reported results are restated to comply with the Groups accounting policies.
Where joint ventures do not adopt accounting periods that are coterminous with the Groups, results and net assets are based upon unaudited accounts drawn up to the Groups accounting reference date.
Public private partnership PPP Private finance initiative PFI concessions Assets constructed by PPP PFI concession companies are classified in the accounts of the joint ventures as financial assets or intangible assets, depending on whether the grantor or user has the primary responsibility to pay the operator for the concession services.
To date, all of the Groups PPP PFI concession assets have been classed as financial assets.
The financial asset represents an interest-bearing, long term receivable.
The cost of the financial asset at any one time is equal to the accumulated value of the service delivery plus accumulated interest charged to the financial asset less amounts received to date.
The financial asset is measured at fair value.
Where it is classed as a loan receivable, any movement in fair value is taken to the income statement.
Where it is classed as available-for-sale, any movement in fair value is taken to reserves.
Revenue is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of value added tax, rebates and discounts.
Revenue from contracting activities represents the value of work carried out during the year including amounts not yet invoiced.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying value.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date, as measured by the contract costs incurred.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs incurred will be recovered.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected resultant loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Employee benefit trusts The accounts of the employee benefit trusts EBTs are incorporated into the results of the Group as, although they are administered by independent trustees and their assets are held separately from those of the Group, in practice, the Groups recommendations on how the assets are used for the benefit of employees are normally followed.
The Group bears the major risks and rewards of the assets held by the EBTs until the shares vest unconditionally with the employees.
Shares in WS Atkins plc held by the EBTs are shown as a reduction in retained earnings accumulated losses.
Other assets and liabilities held by the EBTs are consolidated with the assets of the Group.
Foreign currency transactions and translation Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the Companys and Groups presentation currency.
Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are remeasured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income, for example, as qualifying cash flow hedges.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 108 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Group companies The results and financial position of all Group entities none of which has the currency of a hyperinflationary economy that have a functional currency different from the Groups presentation currency are translated into the Groups presentation currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each balance sheet presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that balance sheet income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates all resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Segment reporting Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker CODM.
The CODM, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has been identified as the chief executive officer and the Group finance director.
The Groups operating segments for management purposes reflect predominantly its key geographical markets.
The segments are: United Kingdom UK : North America: Middle East: Asia Pacific and Europe: and Energy.
These segments form the basis for reporting the Groups segment information as they are the main determinants of the Groups risks and returns.
The Group considers the UK to be its country of domicile.
Intersegment transfers and transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would also be available to unrelated third parties.
Revenue Revenue from long term contracts comprises the value of work performed during the period calculated in accordance with the Groups policy for contract accounting set out below.
Revenue from other contract activities represents fee income receivable in respect of services provided during the period.
Under certain services contracts, the Group manages customer expenditure and is obliged to purchase goods and services from third party contractors and recharge them to the customer at cost.
The amounts charged by contractors and recharged to customers are excluded from revenue and cost of sales where the Group is acting solely as an agent.
Receivables, payables and cash relating to these transactions are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Revenue recognition and contract accounting The value of contract work in progress comprises the costs incurred on contracts plus an appropriate proportion of overheads and attributable profit.
Fees invoiced on account are deducted from the value of work in progress and the balance is separately disclosed in trade and other receivables as amounts recoverable on contracts, unless such fees exceed the value of the work in progress on any contract in which case the excess is separately disclosed in trade and other payables as fees invoiced in advance.
Revenue is recognised on the majority of the Groups contracts on a percentage completion basis when the outcome of a contract or project can be reasonably foreseen.
Under the percentage completion method, the percentage of the total forecast revenue reported at any point in time is calculated based upon the proportion of total costs incurred to date as a percentage of total forecast costs or, in some cases, based upon the estimated physical per cent complete of the total work to be performed under the contract.
In some cases, a margin provision is then made, depending on how far progressed each project is and the risk profile of the project.
Where contracts span two or more accounting periods, profit is not generally recognised until the contract is 50% complete.
In addition, provision is made in full for estimated losses and, where the outcome of a contract cannot be reasonably foreseen, profit is taken on completion.
Revenue recognition on outsourcing contracts is determined by reference to the proportion of the annual service delivered to date.
Where the costs of obligations in relation to the non-renewal or termination of a contract are higher in the final period of the contract, a proportion of revenue is deferred each period to meet these anticipated costs.
Full provision is made for losses on outsourcing contracts if the forecast costs of fulfilling the contract throughout the contract period exceed the forecast income receivable.
In assessing the amount of the loss to provide on an outsourcing contract, account is taken of the Groups share of the forecast results from any joint ventures which the contract is servicing.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 109 Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time apportionment basis using the effective interest method.
When a receivable is impaired, the Group reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument, and continues unwinding the discount as interest income.
Interest income on impaired loans is recognised using the original effective interest rate.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Pre-contract costs The Group accounts for all pre-contract costs in accordance with IAS 11, Construction contracts.
Costs incurred before it becomes probable that a contract will be obtained are charged to expenses.
Directly attributable costs incurred after that point are recognised in the balance sheet and charged to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any special purpose company SPC charges the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Bid recovery fees are deferred and credited to the income statement over the duration of the contract or, in the case of PPP PFI concessions, over the same period as the Groups interest in any SPC credits the equivalent capitalised amounts to the income statement.
Where the Groups interest in any SPC reduces, the deferred bid recovery fees are credited to the income statement in proportion to the reduction of the Groups interest.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
Exceptional items are also summarised by class in the segmental analyses, excluding those that relate to interest and tax.
Retirement benefit schemes The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that typically defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
For defined benefit schemes, regular valuations are prepared by independent professionally qualified actuaries to determine the level of contributions required to fund the benefits set out in the scheme rules.
The Group accounts for pensions in accordance with IAS 19, Employee benefits.
The cost of defined benefit schemes is charged as follows: the current service cost incurred during the period to provide retirement benefits to employees is charged to operating profit gains or losses arising from settlements or curtailments not covered by actuarial assumptions are included in operating profit a charge representing the expected increase in scheme liabilities is included in net finance costs.
This is based on the present value of scheme liabilities at the beginning of the period a credit representing the expected return on scheme assets is included within net finance costs.
This is based on the market value of the assets of the schemes at the start of the period allowing for expected cash flows during the period.
Actuarial gains and losses asset experience, liability experience and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The difference between the market value of scheme assets and the present value of scheme liabilities is recognised as a retirement benefit asset or liability in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
To the extent that it is recoverable, any related deferred tax asset or liability is included in the relevant category of receivable payable.
The Group has elected to recognise actuarial gains and losses in full as they arise through retained earnings accumulated losses.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions into a separate entity.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in the future payments is available.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 110 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Share-based payments The Group operates a number of equity and cash settled share-based compensation plans, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options or cash phantom allocations of the Group.
In accordance with IFRS 2, Share-based payments, the cost of share-based payments awarded after 7 November 2002 is charged to the income statement over the performance and vesting periods of the instruments.
The cost is based on the fair value of the awards made at the date of grant adjusted for the number of awards expected to vest.
In accordance with the transitional provisions within IFRS 2, no charge is made in respect of instruments awarded before 7 November 2002.
In the case of equity settled awards, the credits associated with the amounts charged to the income statement are included in retained earnings accumulated losses until the awards are exercised.
In the case of cash settled awards, the credits associated with the amounts charged to the income statement are held as a liability in the balance sheet until the awards are transferred, at which point a cash amount based on the Companys share price at the vesting date is paid to the employee.
Where awards are settled by the new issue of shares, any proceeds received in respect of share options are credited to share capital and share premium.
Where awards are settled in shares held by the EBTs, any proceeds are credited to retained earnings accumulated losses.
Share awards are granted by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries.
The Company charges to cost of investment in subsidiaries an amount equivalent to the equity settled element of the annual IFRS 2 charge, with an equivalent credit to reserves in accordance with IFRIC 11, Group and treasury share transactions.
Income tax Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the income statement for the period except where the taxation arises as a result of a transaction or event that is recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Income tax arising on transactions or events recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity is charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
However, deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle balances on a net basis.
No deferred tax is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, branches and joint ventures, except where it is known that the earnings will be distributed.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given for a business over the Companys interest in the fair value of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquiree.
Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment.
Prior to 1 April 2004, goodwill was amortised over its estimated useful economic life.
Amortisation ceased on 1 April 2004 and the carrying value of existing goodwill was frozen at that date and is subject to impairment reviews.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business acquisition is allocated to each of the cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Goodwill is monitored at the operating segment level.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 111 Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill that arose prior to 1 April 1997 was written off to retained earnings accumulated losses.
Profit or loss on disposal of the underlying businesses to which this goodwill related will not include goodwill previously recorded as a deduction from equity.
Acquired customer relationships Acquired customer relationships consist of intangible assets arising on the consolidation of recently acquired businesses, that are separable from goodwill, in accordance with IFRS 3, Business combinations, and IAS 38, Intangible assets, and do not fall within the Groups other classes of intangible assets.
These comprise principally existing customer relationships which may give rise to future orders customer relationships, and existing order books backlog orders.
Acquired customer relationships are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and have a finite useful life.
Amortisation of customer relationships is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of customer relationships over their estimated useful lives of between one and twenty years.
Acquired customer relationships are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Backlog orders are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date and amortised over their estimated useful lives of three years.
Backlog orders are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Software licences Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised using the straight line method to allocate the cost of the software licences over their useful lives of between two and five years.
Software licences are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Corporate information systems In accordance with IAS 38, Intangible assets, the Groups corporate information systems are treated as an intangible asset.
Costs included are those directly attributable to the design, construction and testing of new systems including major enhancements and internally generated costs from the point of inception to the point of satisfactory completion where the probable future economic benefits arising from the investment can be assessed with reasonable certainty at the time the costs are incurred.
Maintenance and minor modifications are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
The corporate information systems recognised as assets are amortised using the straight line method to allocate the cost of the corporate information systems over their estimated useful life of six years.
Corporate information systems are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Trade names and trademarks Trade names and trademarks have arisen on the consolidation of recently acquired businesses and are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Where trade names and trademarks are considered to have a finite useful life, amortisation is calculated using the straight line method to allocate the cost of trade names and trademarks over their estimated useful lives.
Where trade names and trademarks are considered to have an indefinite useful life, they are not subject to amortisation: they are tested annually for impairment and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable, as detailed within the impairment of non-financial assets section below.
Trade names and trademarks are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Cost comprises purchase price after discounts and rebates plus all directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on other assets is calculated using the straight line method to write off the cost less residual value of each asset over its estimated useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 10 to 50 years Short term leasehold property over the life of the lease Plant, machinery and vehicles 3 to 12 years The assets useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 112 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within administrative expenses in the income statement.
Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life, such as goodwill, are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows CGUs.
Financial assets Classification The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, and availablefor-sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
A market is regarded as active if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
The quoted market price used for financial assets held by the Group is the mid market price.
These instruments are included in Level 1, see note 2.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2, see note 2.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets except where the maturity is greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in which case they are included as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, and other receivables in the balance sheet.
Other receivables include loan notes receivable.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Recognition and measurement Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the trade date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed in the income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the investments has expired or has been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair value.
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less provision for impairment which, due to their short term nature, approximates to their fair value.
Other receivables include loan notes receivable in respect of disposals, which are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any provision for impairment.
This valuation approximates to their fair value.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are presented in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 113 Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in other comprehensive income.
When securities classified as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement.
Interest on available-for-sale financial assets calculated using the effective interest method is recognised in the income statement as part of finance income.
Impairment of financial assets Assets carried at amortised cost The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset a loss event and that loss event or events has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or group of financial assets that can be reliably estimated.
Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation.
Any impairment is charged to the income statement.
Impairment testing for trade receivables is described below in the accounting policy paragraph relating to trade receivables.
For other receivables carried at amortised cost, impairment loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
Assets classified as available-for-sale The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
The Group uses the criteria referred to above.
If any evidence of impairment exists, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from equity and recognised in profit or loss.
If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available-for-sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed through the Consolidated Income Statement.
Inventories Inventories are stated at cost less impairment.
Cost is determined using the first in, first out method.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business.
If collection is expected in one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer, they are classified as current assets.
If not, they are presented as non-current assets.
Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, demand deposits and other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 114 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 21.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the forecast cash flow that is hedged takes place.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast cash flow is ultimately recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
When a forecast cash flow is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the Consolidated Income Statement.
Lease obligations Finance leases Lease arrangements that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee are treated as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment at the leases commencement and depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the useful life of the asset.
A liability is recognised for the present value of the minimum lease payments within current and or non-current liabilities as appropriate.
Rental payments are apportioned between capital and interest expense to achieve a constant rate of interest charge on the outstanding obligation.
Operating leases Where the Group acts as lessee in an operating lease arrangement, the lease payments are charged as an expense to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives received are also recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Where the Group acts as lessor in an operating lease arrangement, rental income from operating leases is accounted for on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease incentives provided are also recognised over the lease term on a straight line basis.
Trade payables Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers.
Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised at original invoice amount.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost: any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down.
In this case, the fee is deferred until the draw down occurs.
To the extent there is no evidence that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down, the fee is capitalised as a prepayment for liquidity services and amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 115 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Vacant property provisions are recognised when the Group has committed to a course of action that will result in the property becoming vacant.
The provision is calculated based on projected discounted cash flows to the end of the lease, after making assumptions for void and rent free periods.
Dividend distribution Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial Statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Disposal groups held for sale Disposal groups are classified as assets held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Application of new IFRSs and interpretations a New and amended standards adopted by the Group There are no new IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 April 2012 that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
b New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not effective for the financial year beginning 1 April 2012 and not yet adopted Amendment to IAS 1, Financial statement presentation, regarding other comprehensive income effective for financial years beginning on after 1 July 2012 IAS 19 revised 2011, Employee benefits effective for financial years beginning on after 1 January 2013 Amendment to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, on asset and liability offsetting effective for financial years beginning on after 1 January 2013 Amendments to IFRSs 10 and 12 on transition guidance effective 1 January 2014 Amendment to IFRS 11 on transition guidance effective 1 January 2014 Annual improvements 2011 effective for financial years beginning on after 1 January 2013 Amendment to IAS 32, Financial instruments: Presentation, on asset and liability offsetting effective 1 January 2014 IFRS 9, Financial instruments effective 1 January 2015 IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements effective 1 January 2014 IFRS 11, Joint arrangements effective 1 January 2014 IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities effective 1 January 2014 IFRS 13, Fair value measurement effective for financial years beginning on after 1 January 2013 IAS 27 revised 2011, Separate financial statements effective 1 January 2014 IAS 28 revised 2011, Associates and joint ventures effective 1 January 2014.
Of these, the amendment to IAS 19 is expected to have the most significant effect on the Groups Financial Statements.
The impact on the Group will be as follows: to immediately recognise all past service costs: to amend the way in which administrative expenses are allowed for: and to replace interest cost and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability.
Adopting amendments to IAS 19 would have increased 2013 net finance costs by 5.2m, and would have reduced the defined benefit liability at 31 March 2013 by 3.2m.
The estimated effect for 2014, based on current actuarial assumptions, is to increase net finance costs by 8.8m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 116 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 2.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including foreign exchange risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Risk management is carried out by a central treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the Board of directors.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close cooperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investment of excess liquidity.
These policies are further described within the Treasury policies and objectives section of the Business Review page 37.
Where individual sensitivities are disclosed below, all other variables are held constant.
a Market risk Financial instruments affected by market risk include borrowings, debt investments, deposits and derivative financial instruments.
The following foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk analyses, required by IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, are intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being primarily the US dollar to sterling and euro to sterling exchange rates and UK interest rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analyses: changes in the fair value of financial instruments designated as available-for-sale are recognised directly in other comprehensive income changes in the carrying value of derivative financial instruments designated as hedges are fully effective with no impact on the Consolidated Income Statement changes in the carrying value of other financial instruments not in hedging relationships only affect the Consolidated Income Statement.
i Foreign exchange risk The Group operates in a number of international territories.
Each business undertakes a large proportion of its commercial transactions within its local market and in its local functional currency.
Foreign exchange risk arises from a proportion of commercial transactions undertaken in currencies other than the local functional currency, from financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency and on the Groups investments in foreign operations.
Group policy is for each business to undertake commercial transactions in its own functional currency whenever possible.
When this is not possible, the Group manages its foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions using appropriate derivative contracts arranged via Group Treasury.
Cash flows are reviewed on a monthly basis throughout the duration of projects and the future cover amended as appropriate.
Trade receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency arise from commercial transactions and are therefore largely hedged as part of the process described above.
Remaining financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency include bank accounts, loans and intercompany funding balances.
These are generally unhedged, with the exception of balances that are themselves designated as hedging instruments used to hedge the Groups investments in foreign operations.
The Groups primary exposure to foreign exchange risk on unhedged financial instruments arises mainly in respect of movements between the US dollar including dollar pegged currencies and sterling and between the euro and sterling.
At 31 March 2013, if sterling had strengthened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the US dollar, post-tax profit for the year would have been lower by approximately 1.7m 2012: 1.9m lower and equity would have been 1.7m lower 2012: 1.9m lower.
If sterling had weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the US dollar, post-tax profit for the year would have been higher by approximately 2.1m 2012: 2.4m higher and equity would have been 2.1m higher 2012: 2.4m higher.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 117 At 31 March 2013, if sterling had strengthened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the euro, post-tax profit for the year would have been lower by approximately 0.3m 2012: 0.5m lower and equity would have been 0.3m lower 2012: 0.5m lower.
If sterling had weakened by a reasonably possible change of 10% against the euro, post-tax profit for the year would have been higher by approximately 0.4m 2012: 0.7m higher and equity would have been 0.4m higher 2012: 0.7m higher.
The Group has certain investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
ii Interest rate risk The Groups exposure to interest rate risk arises from cash and cash equivalents and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss which are all interest bearing, offset in part by interest bearing bank loans.
The majority of these items are at floating rates of interest or fixed deposits for periods of less than six months: changes in the interest rate results in changes in interest-related cash flows.
No interest hedging is currently undertaken by the Group or its subsidiaries.
If interest rates for the year to 31 March 2013 had been 10 basis points higher lower, post-tax profit for the year would have been approximately 0.1m 2012: 0.1m higher lower.
iii Price risk Price risk is the risk that a decline in the value of assets adversely impacts the profitability of the Group.
The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
To manage this risk, the Group diversifies its portfolio.
Diversification of the portfolio is done in accordance with limits set by the Group.
During the year, the Group was also exposed to price risk because of investments held by the Group in unlisted corporate bonds available-for-sale financial assets.
These investments were disposed of during the year, see note 20.
At 31 March 2012 the fair value of these investments was 6.1m.
Management monitors exposures to price risk on an ongoing basis.
The Group is not materially exposed to commodity price risk.
Certain longer term project and framework contracts include indexation clauses that are applied to unit rates to offset the effect of inflation on input costs over the duration of the agreement.
The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent that inflation differs from the index used and forecast project outcomes that form the basis of revenue recognition include an estimate of this risk where it is present.
b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group will suffer financial loss as a result of counterparties defaulting on their contractual obligations.
Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions, and investments in unlisted corporate bonds available-for-sale financial assets, as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and committed transactions, with the maximum exposure to the risk equivalent to 100% of the carrying value disclosed in the Groups balance sheet at 31 March.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
The Groups policy is that cash and investments should not be concentrated with any one counterparty.
For trade and other receivables, concentration of credit risk is very limited due to the Groups broad customer base.
An assessment of credit quality of the customer is made where appropriate using a combination of external rating agencies, past experience and other factors.
In circumstances where credit information is unavailable or poor, the risk is mitigated primarily by the use of advance payments resulting in positive cash flows.
Exposure and payment performance are monitored closely both at individual project and client level, with a series of escalating debt recovery actions taken where necessary.
In view of current economic circumstances, additional management attention remains focused on the recovery of debtors.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 118 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued c Liquidity risk The Group funds its activities through cash generated from its operations and, where necessary, borrowings and finance leases.
The Groups borrowing facilities include bank facilities and private placement debt.
Cash flow forecasting is performed in the operating entities of the Group and aggregated by a central finance department Group Finance.
Group Treasury monitors rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities note 27 at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants where applicable on any of its borrowing facilities.
Such forecasting takes into consideration the Groups debt financing plans and covenant compliance.
Any surplus cash is invested by Group Treasury in interest bearing current accounts, term deposits and money market deposits, choosing instruments with appropriate maturities or sufficient liquidity to provide sufficient headroom as determined by the forecasts mentioned above.
The table below analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows.
Group 2013 On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Finance leases 0.1 0.1 1 Bank loans 60.0 60.0 1 Private placement debt 2.4 2.2 6.5 52.5 63.6 Trade payables 74.3 74.3 2012 On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Finance leases 2.0 1.7 2.8 0.6 7.1 1 Bank loans 104.5 104.5 Trade payables 87.8 87.8 Company 2013 On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m 1 Bank loans 60.0 60.0 1 Private placement debt 2.4 2.2 6.5 52.5 63.6 Intercompany payables 82.0 82.0 2012 On demand or within Between Between 2 Over 1 year 1 and 2 years and 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m 1 Bank loans 104.5 104.5 Intercompany payables 84.5 84.5 1.
T he contractual cash flows in each year include the borrowings maturing in that year together with forecast contractual interest payments on those borrowings.
Interest is estimated using the prevailing rate at the balance sheet date.
Cash flows in foreign currencies are translated at the spot rates at the balance sheet date.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 119 d Concentrations of financial instruments The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, excluding derivative financial instruments, were denominated in the following currencies: 2013 2012 Financial Financial Financial Financial assets liabilities assets liabilities m m m m Sterling 281.7 161.3 253.3 151.1 US dollar 118.1 16.7 92.1 23.8 China RMB 21.4 0.6 23.5 0.1 UAE dirham 20.8 2.2 30.0 3.1 Qatari rial 17.6 0.8 28.9 2.7 HK dollar 15.3 1.1 14.3 1.0 Australian dollar 12.4 7.8 Euro 11.7 1.1 18.4 1.3 Danish krone 11.6 0.9 8.7 3.8 Saudi Arabian riyal 7.9 0.8 12.9 8.3 Swedish krone 7.3 1.5 4.6 Other 29.5 1.7 30.2 3.2 Total 555.3 188.7 524.7 198.4 The carrying value of the financial assets of the Company are denominated in US dollars 109.9m and sterling 55.6m.
The carrying value of the financial liabilities of the Company are denominated in US dollars 109.1m and sterling 82.0m.
At 31 March 2012, the carrying value of the financial assets of the Company were denominated in US dollars 104.2m and sterling 66.3m.
The carrying value of the financial liabilities of the Company at that date were denominated in US dollars 104.0m and sterling 84.5m.
Financial assets consist of loan notes: trade receivables net : intercompany receivables nil in consolidated accounts : amounts due from joint ventures: financial assets at fair values through profit or loss: financial assets designated as available-for-sale, and cash and cash equivalents.
Financial liabilities consist of trade payables: intercompany payables nil in consolidated accounts : and borrowings.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group maintains or adjusts its capital structure through the payment of dividends to shareholders and through its borrowing facilities.
The Group monitors capital on the basis of the ratio of its net debt plus defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
This policy is unchanged from the prior year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 120 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The ratios of net debt plus defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to adjusted EBITDA at 31 March 2013 and 2012 were as follows: Group 2013 2012 m m Total borrowings note 27 109.2 110.6 Less: cash and cash equivalents note 26 201.5 167.0 Net debt 92.3 56.4 Defined benefit pension deficit note 30 285.2 251.1 Net deferred tax note 19 72.1 65.4 Net debt plus defined pension deficit net of total deferred tax 120.8 129.3 Profit before interest and tax 112.4 146.3 Add: depreciation 14.6 17.1 Add: amortisation and impairment 14.0 9.5 EBITDA 141.0 172.9 Less: exceptional item note 11 4.3 30.9 Adjusted EBITDA 136.7 142.0 Ratios of net debt plus defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to adjusted EBITDA 0.9 0.9 Given the Groups current net funds position, the Board has not formally agreed a target ratio of net debt plus defined benefit pension deficit net of total deferred tax to adjusted EBITDA.
Fair value estimation The table below analyses the Groups financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments traded in active markets is based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Level 2 financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on estimates.
The fair value of certificates of deposit is calculated as the present value of the future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate market rate of interest.
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the foreign exchange contracts.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 121 The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 March 2013 and 2012: 2013 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Assets Derivatives used for hedging 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.7 Marketable securities Certificates of deposit 16.7 16.7 16.0 16.0 Fixed interest securities 8.3 8.3 12.2 12.2 Life insurance policies 3.8 3.8 3.4 3.4 Floating rate notes 4.4 4.4 2.8 2.8 UK treasury bills 2.7 2.7 0.6 0.6 Available-for-sale financial assets Debt investments 6.1 6.1 Total assets 15.4 21.3 36.7 15.6 26.2 41.8 Liabilities Derivatives used for hedging 2.7 2.7 4.2 4.2 Total liabilities 2.7 2.7 4.2 4.2 There have been no changes to the classification of the Groups financial instruments carried at fair value between Level 1 and Level 2 at 31 March 2013 or 2012.
Segmental information The CODM has been identified as the chief executive officer and the Group finance director.
The chief executive officer and the Group finance director review the Groups internal reporting to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on these reports.
The chief executive officer and the Group finance director assess the performance of the operating segments based on operating profit before interest and tax.
Information provided to the chief executive officer and the Group finance director is measured in a manner consistent with that in the Financial Statements.
a Group business segments Revenue and results Share of post-tax Inter profit External segment Operating Operating from joint revenue trade Revenue profit margin ventures 2013 m m m m % m UK 883.9 16.4 900.3 56.6 6.3 0.9 North America 388.7 1.0 389.7 15.3 3.9 0.5 Middle East 168.3 6.1 162.2 11.8 7.3 Asia Pacific and Europe 165.1 0.3 164.8 13.8 8.4 Energy 162.9 11.0 151.9 13.8 9.1 0.1 Total for segments 1,768.9 1,768.9 111.3 6.3 1.5 Group items: Joint ventures reported above 63.7 63.7 1.5 Unallocated central items 5.7 2.3 Total for Group 1,705.2 1,705.2 104.1 6.1 3.8 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 122 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Share of post-tax Inter profit loss External segment Operating Operating from joint revenue trade Revenue profit margin ventures 2012 m m m m % m UK 814.1 45.8 859.9 51.6 6.0 2.4 North America 412.4 9.5 421.9 21.2 5.0 0.2 Middle East 226.2 54.8 171.4 16.8 9.8 Asia Pacific and Europe 162.1 1.4 163.5 11.9 7.3 Energy 130.3 1.9 128.4 11.4 8.9 Total for segments 1,745.1 1,745.1 112.9 6.5 2.6 Group items: Joint ventures reported above 34.0 34.0 2.4 Unallocated central items 26.7 0.7 Total for Group 1,711.1 1,711.1 137.2 8.0 1.9 Unallocated central items include 4.3m relating to a pension curtailment gain, see note 30, and 10.0m of intangible asset amortisation and impairment relating to the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation PBSJ, see note 16 2012: 30.9m relating to the pension curtailment gain and 4.2m of intangible asset amortisation relating to the acquisition of PBSJ.
Total segment revenue excludes the share of joint venture revenue earned from centrally managed joint ventures of 6.6m 2012: 24.7m.
Reconciliation of segmental analysis to profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent and non-controlling interests: 2013 2012 m m Operating profit 104.1 137.2 Profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests 4.5 7.2 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 3.8 1.9 Profit before interest and tax 112.4 146.3 Finance income 3.4 4.1 Finance costs 12.5 14.9 Net finance costs 9.1 10.8 Profit before tax 103.3 135.5 Income tax expense 14.9 28.7 Profit for the year 88.4 106.8 Profit loss attributable to: Owners of the parent 88.7 106.7 Non-controlling interests 0.3 0.1 88.4 106.8 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 123 Balance sheet Depreciation, Total Total Investments amortisation segment segment Net assets in joint Capital and assets liabilities liabilities ventures expenditure impairment 2013 m m m m m m UK 510.0 288.2 221.8 3.8 15.1 10.0 North America 313.1 86.0 227.1 0.7 2.5 5.1 Middle East 105.1 57.7 47.4 2.9 1.1 Asia Pacific and Europe 96.1 72.3 23.8 3.6 1.9 Energy 73.4 30.3 43.1 0.1 0.5 0.5 Total for segments 1,097.7 534.5 563.2 4.4 24.6 18.6 Group items: Unallocated central items 16.7 436.1 419.4 2.7 10.0 Total for Group 1,114.4 970.6 143.8 7.1 24.6 28.6 Total Total Investments Depreciation segment segment Net assets in joint Capital and Restated assets liabilities liabilities ventures expenditure amortisation 2012 m m m m m m UK 440.3 292.1 148.2 3.1 12.2 11.9 North America 310.1 92.1 218.0 0.4 4.6 6.1 Middle East 139.0 77.7 61.3 2.3 1.9 Asia Pacific and Europe 94.3 73.8 20.5 2.1 1.8 Energy 63.6 23.5 40.1 12.9 0.7 Total for segments 1,047.3 559.2 488.1 3.5 34.1 22.4 Group items: Unallocated central items 23.5 392.2 368.7 4.2 Total for Group 1,070.8 951.4 119.4 3.5 34.1 26.6 During the year the Group reviewed the basis of allocating assets and liabilities to the operating segments.
As a result, assets and liabilities are now allocated based on the operations of the segments and the physical location or territory of the asset or liability.
The segment assets and liabilities at 31 March 2012 have been restated to reflect these revised allocations.
Group cash balances: derivative financial instruments: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: centrally managed joint ventures: and corporate assets are not considered to be segment assets as they are managed centrally.
Consequently they are shown within unallocated central items.
Post-employment benefit liabilities: bank loans and private placement debt: derivative financial instruments: central tax provisions: and corporate liabilities are not considered to be segment liabilities as they are managed centrally.
Capital expenditure includes additions to goodwill, other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 124 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued b Group geographical segments External revenue is measured by location of operation.
There was no material difference between geographic revenue by location of operation and by location of customer.
Outside the UK, only the Groups business in the United States US contributes more than 10% of the Groups revenue or non-current assets.
c Major customers Revenue from the UK Government represents approximately 206.5m 2012: 180.8m of the Groups total revenue and is included within the UK and Energy operating segments.
Joint ventures a Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures Group 2013 2012 m m Revenue 70.3 58.7 Operating expenditure 66.1 55.6 Operating profit 4.2 3.1 Finance income 4.8 Finance costs 5.3 Profit before tax 4.2 2.6 Income tax expense 0.4 0.7 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 3.8 1.9 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 125 b Investments in joint ventures Group 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 1.6 Other non-current assets 0.1 1.7 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 12.8 4.3 Other current assets 31.9 28.0 44.7 32.3 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 36.4 26.5 36.4 26.5 Non-current liabilities Other non-current liabilities 1.2 4.0 1.2 4.0 Share of net assets 7.1 3.5 Investments in joint ventures 7.1 3.5 The Groups principal joint ventures are detailed in note 41.
The joint ventures have no capital commitments 2012: none.
Operating profit analysis of costs by nature Group 2013 2012 m m Operating profit is arrived at after charging crediting : Employee benefit costs note 6 891.8 789.0 Net foreign exchange gains 1.6 0.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 17 14.6 17.1 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 0.5 Impairment of trade receivables reversal of impairment increase in provisions note 24 8.7 5.7 release of provisions note 24 8.7 6.9 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles note 16 14.0 9.5 Receipts under operating leases 3.9 2.4 Payments under operating leases 59.4 55.3 Company operating profit was arrived at after generating 9.0m of realised profit on disposal of investments 2012: 32.6m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 126 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Services provided by the Groups auditor During the year the Group including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Groups auditor at costs as detailed below: Group 2013 2012 m m Statutory audit of the Company and Group Financial Statements 0.3 0.3 The audit of accounts of Group companies pursuant to legislation: UK 0.5 0.4 Non-UK 0.6 0.5 Total audit services 1.4 1.2 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Taxation compliance services 0.5 0.5 Taxation advisory services 0.2 Services relating to pensions 0.1 0.2 Other 0.2 0.1 Total other services 1.1 0.9 Total 2.5 2.1 The fee for the statutory audit of the Companys annual accounts was 0.1m 2012: 0.1m.
No other services were provided to the Company by the Groups auditor 2012: none.
Employee benefit costs Average Year end 2013 2012 2013 2012 Number Number Number Number Number of full time equivalent people including executive directors employed by the Group By segment: UK 8,467 8,654 8,626 8,201 North America 3,091 3,314 3,039 3,255 Middle East 2,003 1,754 1,978 1,961 Asia Pacific and Europe 1,756 1,633 1,812 1,684 Energy 1,213 1,029 1,273 1,095 Corporate 70 69 76 67 Total for Group 16,600 16,453 16,804 16,263 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 127 Aggregate employee benefit costs of those people amounted to: Group 2013 2012 m m Wages and salaries, including restructuring costs 787.2 715.1 Social security costs 64.5 62.0 Defined benefit current service cost note 30 2.2 3.3 Settlement and curtailment gains note 30 4.4 33.3 Charge for defined contribution schemes note 30 32.8 31.0 Other post-employment benefit costs note 30 2.0 3.5 Share-based payments see note 33 7.5 7.4 891.8 789.0 Wages and salaries include 5.4m of restructuring costs 2012: 7.6m relating to continuing operations.
Details of remuneration including retirement benefits and interests for directors are included in the Remuneration Report, which forms part of these Financial Statements.
Details of remuneration for key management are included in note 39.
The Company has no employees 2012: none.
Net finance costs Group 2013 2012 m m Interest payable on borrowings 3.2 1.9 Interest payable on finance lease liabilities 0.3 0.4 Unwinding of discount note 29 0.1 0.3 Net finance costs on post-employment benefit liabilities note 30 8.1 11.5 Other finance costs 0.8 0.8 Finance costs 12.5 14.9 Interest receivable on short term deposits 1.1 0.9 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.7 0.8 Income on available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 0.4 Interest receivable on loan notes 1.3 2.0 Finance income 3.4 4.1 Net finance costs 9.1 10.8 Finance income of 1.4m arising on loan notes receivable from Lambert Smith Hampton Acquisition Limited LSH has been provided against in full within interest receivable on loan notes.
See note 22 for further details regarding these loan notes receivable.
Company net finance costs were 2.2m 2012: 0.6m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 128 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 8.
Income tax expense a Analysis of charge in the year Group Restated 2013 2012 m m Current income tax current year 15.0 13.5 adjustment in respect of prior years 3.6 2.5 Deferred income tax note 19 origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.2 15.2 effect of changes in tax rates 1.3 2.5 Income tax charged to income statement 14.9 28.7 Adjust for: tax on profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests 0.4 0.4 tax on exceptional items 1.0 7.3 tax on amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 3.9 1.4 Underlying income tax expense 18.2 22.4 Profit before tax per income statement 103.3 135.5 Adjust for: profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests 4.5 7.2 amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles 10.0 4.2 exceptional items 4.3 30.9 Underlying profit before income tax 104.5 101.6 Effective income tax rate 14.4% 21.2% Underlying effective income tax rate 17.4% 22.0% During the year, the Group has reassessed the presentation of the current income tax charge credit between current year and adjustments in respect of prior years, reclassifying 13.4m in 2012 between these lines.
There is no change to the total current income tax charge.
b Factors affecting income tax rate The income tax rate for the year is lower 2012: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24% 2012: 26%.
The differences are explained below: Group 2013 2012 % % UK statutory income tax rate 24.0 26.0 Increase decrease resulting from: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.2 0.6 Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates 0.2 0.5 Effect of share-based payments 0.3 0.4 Tax on joint ventures 1.3 0.4 Research and development tax credits 5.6 3.8 Losses not recognised for tax 3.5 3.1 Effect of change in tax rates 1.3 1.8 Other 0.8 0.2 Effective income tax rate 14.4 21.2 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 129 The underlying income tax rate for the year is lower 2012: lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24% 2012: 26%.
The differences are explained below: Group 2013 2012 % % UK statutory income tax rate 24.0 26.0 Increase decrease resulting from: Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1.6 2.3 Adjustment in respect of overseas tax rates 1.2 0.4 Effect of share-based payments 0.3 0.6 Tax on joint ventures 1.3 0.5 Research and development tax credits 5.6 5.2 Losses not recognised for tax 3.5 4.1 Effect of change in tax rates 1.3 3.1 Other 0.6 0.2 Underlying effective income tax rate 17.4 22.0 c Income tax on components of other comprehensive income Group Postemployment benefit Cash flow liability hedges Total 2013 m m m At 1 April 40.8 0.5 41.3 Deferred income tax 9.9 9.9 Current income tax 0.3 0.3 At 31 March 50.7 0.2 50.9 Group Postemployment benefit Cash flow liability hedges Total 2012 m m m At 1 April 54.2 0.2 54.0 Deferred income tax 13.4 0.7 12.7 At 31 March 40.8 0.5 41.3 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 130 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 9.
Profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests 2013 Group m Profit on disposal of non-controlling interests RMPA Holdings Limited 7.6 UK Specialist Hospitals Limited 0.2 Profit transaction costs incurred on disposal of businesses UK highways services 3.8 Atkins Facilities Management Limited 0.5 At 31 March 4.5 Profit on disposal of non-controlling interests RMPA Holdings Limited On 4 May 2012 the sale of the Groups non-controlling interest 14% in RMPA Holdings Limited to subsidiary undertakings of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited was completed.
HICL Infrastructure Company Limited is the ultimate parent company of an existing shareholder.
The interest was sold for a net cash consideration of 14.4m.
The profit on disposal before tax was 7.6m and the profit on disposal after tax was 7.7m.
The disposal of the non-controlling interest has not been reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2013 or 2012 as it does not represent a major line of business.
UK Specialist Hospitals Limited On 20 February 2013 the sale of the Groups investment in UK Specialist Hospitals Limited to Care UK Clinical Services Limited was completed.
The investment was sold for a cash consideration of 0.2m.
The profit on disposal was 0.2m.
Profit on disposal of businesses UK highways services The assets and liabilities relating to the Groups UK highways services business, which forms part of the UK Highways and Transportation business, have been presented as held for sale following the exchange of contracts on 27 February 2013 which formed an agreement to dispose of the business to Skanska Construction UK Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Skanska AB.
The transaction had not completed at 31 March 2013, however disposal costs of 3.8m had been incurred at that date, comprising transaction costs of 2.4m and restructuring costs of 1.4m.
Further details regarding this transaction are given in note 10.
Atkins Facilities Management Limited In the prior year, on 30 November 2011, the sale of Atkins Facilities Management Limited AFML to Sodexo Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sodexo S. A. was completed.
Sodexo S. A. is a multinational provider of on-site service solutions and is listed on the Paris Bourse.
The business was sold for a cash consideration of 5.2m, together with a deferred conditional amount of 0.5m.
The profit on disposal recognised at 31 March 2012 is shown below.
The disposal of AFML was not reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2012 as it did not represent a major line of business.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 131 AFML was reported in the UK operating segment note 3.
2012 Group m Net consideration received or receivable at date of disposal Initial cash consideration 5.0 Cash working capital adjustment 0.2 Fair value of deferred consideration Disposal consideration 5.2 Assets and liabilities at date of disposal Property, plant and equipment 0.1 Intangible assets 0.1 Trade and other receivables 6.1 Trade and other payables 7.3 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 3.4 Other non-current liabilities 0.5 Net liabilities 4.9 Profit on disposal before costs 10.1 Disposal costs incurred 2.9 Profit on disposal 7.2 2012 Company m Net consideration received or receivable at date of disposal Initial cash consideration 5.0 Cash consideration in respect of net intercompany balances 6.9 Cash working capital adjustment 0.2 Fair value of deferred consideration Disposal consideration 12.1 Investment in subsidiary Net book value of equity investment Net investment in subsidiary Profit on disposal before costs 12.1 Disposal costs incurred 2.9 Profit on disposal 9.2 During the year ended 31 March 2013, deferred conditional consideration of 0.5m was received.
This amount is included within the Companys Income Statement and in profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests in the Consolidated Income Statement.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 132 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 10.
Assets held for sale UK highways services The assets and liabilities relating to the Groups UK highways services business, which forms part of the UK Highways and Transportation business, have been presented as held for sale following the exchange of contracts on 27 February 2013 which formed an agreement to dispose of the business to Skanska Construction UK Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Skanska AB.
The transaction is expected to complete in the summer.
The Group will receive net cash consideration of up to 18m, of which 16m is due on completion and a further 2m is to be deferred and paid subject to the future performance of the business.
Whilst the assets and liabilities of the UK highways services business represent a disposal group, the business is not reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2013 as it does not represent a major line of business.
The UK highways services business is reported in the UK operating segment note 3.
The major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal group in 2013 are as follows: m Assets classified as held for sale: Property, plant and equipment note 17 5.0 Inventories note 23 0.8 Total assets of the disposal group 5.8 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale: Borrowings note 27 5.2 Total liabilities of the disposal group 5.2 Total net assets of the disposal group 0.6 The profit on disposal will be reported in the Groups Financial Statements for the year ending 31 March 2014.
RMPA Holdings Limited In the year ended 31 March 2012, the Group presented the assets and liabilities relating to the Groups non-controlling interest in RMPA Holdings Limited as held for sale following the exchange of contracts on 9 March 2012.
The transaction completed on 4 May 2012 and the profit on disposal is shown in note 9.
RMPA Holdings Limited delivered the Colchester Garrison PFI project and the sale was to subsidiary undertakings of HICL Infrastructure Company Limited.
The interest was sold for a net consideration of 14.4m which comprised a gross consideration of 15.0m less 0.6m in respect of amounts previously received under loan notes.
Whilst the assets and liabilities of the non-controlling interest represent a disposal group, the disposal of the non-controlling interest has not been reported as a discontinued operation at 31 March 2013 or 2012 as it does not represent a major line of business.
The Groups non-controlling interest in RMPA Holdings Limited was reported as a centrally managed joint venture and not allocated to an operating segment, see note 3.
The major classes of assets and liabilities of the disposal group were as follows: m Assets classified as held for sale: Loan notes receivable 6.8 Trade and other receivables 0.1 Total assets of the disposal group 6.9 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale: Share of joint venture liabilities 0.1 Total liabilities of the disposal group 0.1 Total net assets of the disposal group 6.8 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 133 11.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement and in the notes to the Financial Statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
An analysis of the amount presented as an exceptional item in these Financial Statements is given below: Group 2013 2012 m m Curtailment gain relating to one-off pension events note 30 4.3 30.9 The curtailment gain is included within administrative expenses in the Groups Consolidated Income Statement.
Dividends Company and Group 2013 2012 2013 2012 pence pence m m Final dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2012 2011 20.75 19.50 20.3 19.2 Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2013 2012 10.00 9.75 9.7 9.5 Dividends recognised in the year 30.75 29.25 30.0 28.7 Interim dividend paid for the year ended 31 March 2013 2012 10.00 9.75 9.7 9.5 Final dividend proposed for the year ended 31 March 2013 2012 22.00 20.75 21.4 20.2 Dividends relating to the year 32.00 30.50 31.1 29.7 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting and has not been included as a liability in these Financial Statements.
As at 31 March 2013, one EBT had an agreement in place to waive dividends in excess of 0.01 pence per share on 213,461 ordinary shares 2012: 213,461.
A separate EBT also had an agreement in place as at 31 March 2013 to waive future dividends in their entirety on 2,618,276 ordinary shares 2012: 2,398,078.
These arrangements reduced the dividends paid in year by 0.8m 2012: 0.6m.
As at 31 March 2013, 4,341,000 ordinary shares 2012: 4,341,000 were held by the Group as treasury shares on which no dividends are paid.
These shares reduced the dividends paid in year by 1.3m 2012: 1.3m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 134 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 13.
Earnings per share EPS Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding shares held by the EBTs which have not unconditionally vested in the employees and shares held in treasury.
Diluted EPS is the basic EPS after allowing for the dilutive effect of the conversion into ordinary shares of the number of options outstanding during the year.
The options relate to discretionary employee share plans.
Reconciliations of the earnings and weighted average number of shares used in the calculations are set out below: Group 2013 2012 Number 000 Number 000 Number of shares Weighted average number of shares used in basic and underlying basic EPS 97,425 97,891 Effect of dilutive securities share options 2,412 2,196 Weighted average number of shares used in diluted and underlying diluted EPS 99,837 100,087 m m Earnings Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 88.7 106.7 Profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests net of tax note 9 4.9 6.8 Exceptional pension curtailment gain net of tax note 11 3.3 23.6 Amortisation and impairment of acquired intangibles net of tax 6.1 2.8 Underlying earnings 86.6 79.1 pence pence Basic earnings per share 91.0 109.0 Diluted earnings per share 88.8 106.6 Underlying basic earnings per share 88.9 80.8 Underlying diluted earnings per share 86.7 79.0 14.
Parent Company Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income The Company has not presented its own Income Statement or Statement of Comprehensive Income as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The profit and total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the owners of the parent was 23.4m 2012: 42.7m, which included 16.1m 2012: 2.2m of dividend income from subsidiary companies and 0.5m of profit on disposal of a subsidiary undertaking 2012: 9.2m, see note 9.
The Companys individual Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income were approved by the Board on 11 June 2013.
Goodwill Group 2013 2012 m m Cost at 1 April 213.4 200.4 Additions 12.0 Difference on exchange 6.8 1.0 Cost at 31 March 220.2 213.4 Aggregate impairment at 1 April 8.4 8.4 Difference on exchange 0.4 Aggregate impairment at 31 March 8.8 8.4 Net book value at 31 March 211.4 205.0 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 135 Impairment test for goodwill Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of assets, at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to the Groups CGU, or group of CGUs, that management has identified in order to carry out impairment tests.
The following is a summary of goodwill allocation by CGU or group of CGUs, summarised at the operating segment level: Group 2013 2012 m m UK 30.6 30.6 North America 141.8 136.4 Asia Pacific and Europe 14.9 14.3 Energy 24.1 23.7 Total 211.4 205.0 The impairment test involves comparing the carrying value of the CGU or group of CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of all CGUs has been determined based on value in use calculations.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately when the carrying value of those assets exceeds their recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount Value in use calculations Methodology The value in use calculations use cash flow projections based on the following financial years budget approved by the Board, which is based on past performance and managements expectations of market developments.
The key assumptions in the budget relate to revenue and profit margins.
Budgeted revenue is based on managements knowledge of actual results from prior years, along with the existing committed and contracted workload, as well as managements future expectations of the level of work available within the market.
Profit margins are based on current margins being achieved in conjunction with economic conditions in the market or country of operation.
The cash flow projections from that budget are extrapolated for the next four years using an estimated growth rate and projected margin.
Growth rates of between 1.5% and 3.3% are based on the economic environment for the country in which the CGU operates.
As required by IAS 36, cash flows beyond the five year period are extrapolated based on the long term average growth rate for the primary country in which the CGU operates of between 1.7% and 3.3%.
The growth rates are derived from the International Monetary Funds World Economic Outlook published Gross Domestic Product GDP growth rates.
Projected margins reflect the historical and budgeted performance of the CGU.
The projections do not include the impact of future restructuring projects to which the Group is not yet committed.
The cash flows have been discounted using the CGUs specific pre-tax discount rates of between 7.7% to 15.2%.
The discount rates have been calculated based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital using the capital asset pricing model to determine the cost of equity and risks specific to the CGU.
The discount rates are revised annually using updated market information.
Assumptions The growth rate and discount rate assumptions used for the internal value in use calculations are as follows: Group 2013 2012 Five year growth rate 1.5% - 3.3% 0% - 5% Post five year growth rate 1.7% - 3.3% 0% - 5% Pre-tax discount rate 7.7% - 15.2% 14% Sensitivities Goodwill of 141.8m 2012: 136.4m allocated to the North America operating segment includes 134.4m of goodwill arising on the acquisition of PBSJ.
This goodwill has been allocated to the Atkins North America group of CGUs and is considered significant in comparison with the Groups total carrying amount of goodwill.
The recoverable amount of this group of CGUs has been determined using an internal value in use calculation.
The growth rate and discount rate assumptions used for this calculation are as follows: 2013 2012 Five year growth rate 3.3% 3% Post five year growth rate 3.3% 3% Pre-tax discount rate 12.4% 12% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 136 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The carrying amount of intangible assets with indefinite useful lives allocated to the Atkins North America group of CGUs for the purposes of the impairment test is nil 2012: 2.4m.
Given the materiality of goodwill allocated to the Atkins North America group of CGUs, together with the relative headroom derived by the calculations, sensitivity analysis has been performed on the key assumptions used in the value in use calculations.
The two assumptions to which these calculations are most sensitive are the projected profit margin and the discount rate.
Specific sensitivity analysis with regard to these assumptions shows that, with respect to profit margin, it would need to fall by 160 basis points before any impairment would be triggered, and similarly the pre-tax discount rate would need to increase from 12.4% to 14.9%.
For the other CGUs, management has considered the level of headroom resulting from the impairment tests.
Where appropriate, further sensitivity analysis has been performed by changing the base case assumptions applicable to each CGU.
The analysis has indicated that no reasonably possible changes in any individual key assumption would cause the carrying amount of the business to exceed its recoverable amount.
As at 31 March 2013 and 2012, based on these internal valuations, the recoverable value of goodwill required no impairment.
Other intangible assets Group Acquired Corporate Trade names customer information and Software relationships systems trademarks licences Total m m m m m Cost at 1 April 2011 43.1 15.6 5.6 14.7 79.0 Additions 5.1 5.1 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 0.1 0.1 Disposals 12.6 1.6 14.2 Difference on exchange 0.5 0.2 0.3 Cost at 31 March 2012 43.6 3.0 5.6 18.1 70.3 Additions 6.3 6.3 Disposals 2.8 0.3 3.1 Difference on exchange 1.5 0.2 1.1 2.8 Cost at 31 March 2013 45.1 0.2 5.8 25.2 76.3 Amortisation and impairment at 1 April 2011 5.5 15.5 0.8 6.9 28.7 Amortisation charge for the year 4.8 0.1 4.6 9.5 Disposals 12.6 1.5 14.1 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Amortisation and impairment at 31 March 2012 10.3 3.0 0.8 9.9 24.0 Amortisation charge for the year 2.6 4.0 6.6 Impairment charge for the year 2.6 4.8 7.4 Disposals 2.8 0.2 3.0 Difference on exchange 0.4 0.2 1.1 1.7 Amortisation and impairment at 31 March 2013 15.9 0.2 5.8 14.8 36.7 Net book value at 31 March 2013 29.2 10.4 39.6 Net book value at 31 March 2012 33.3 4.8 8.2 46.3 Included with trade names and trademarks are costs of 0.2m 2012: 0.2m in respect of intellectual property rights.
These costs were fully amortised at 31 March 2013 and 2012.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 137 Included within acquired customer relationships are costs of 5.4m 2012: 5.4m in respect of backlog orders, arising from the acquisition of PBSJ on 1 October 2010.
At 31 March 2013, the net book value of these backlog orders is 0.1m 2012: 0.6m and their remaining amortisation life is 0.5 years.
The remaining amortisation life of the other assets included within acquired customer relationships is 16.5 years.
The carrying amounts of acquired customer relationships and trade names and trademarks relating to Peter R. Brown Construction, Inc. a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, have been reduced to recoverable amounts of nil following an impairment review.
Impairment charges of 2.6m and 4.8m have been recognised respectively, as shown above.
These impairment charges have been included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Peter R. Brown Construction, Inc. is included within the Groups North America operating segment.
The recoverable amounts of Peter R. Brown Construction, Inc. s intangible assets were based on their value in use.
The post-tax discount rate used in the value in use calculation was 9.3% 2012: 9.0%.
The amortisation charge for the year of 6.6m 2012: 9.5m is included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Property, plant and equipment Group Freehold Short term Plant, land and leasehold machinery buildings property and vehicles Total m m m m Cost at 1 April 2011 19.3 28.0 75.9 123.2 Additions 1.5 2.3 13.2 17.0 Acquisition of subsidiary undertakings 0.2 0.1 0.3 Disposals 1.5 13.2 14.7 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.6 0.7 Cost at 31 March 2012 20.8 28.9 75.4 125.1 Additions 3.2 15.1 18.3 Disposals 2.3 8.3 10.6 Transferred to disposal group classified as held for sale note 10 0.2 14.8 15.0 Difference on exchange 0.4 0.5 1.8 2.7 Cost at 31 March 2013 21.2 30.1 69.2 120.5 Depreciation at 1 April 2011 7.4 15.4 47.6 70.4 Depreciation charge for the year 0.4 4.0 12.7 17.1 Disposals 1.3 12.1 13.4 Difference on exchange 0.5 0.5 Depreciation at 31 March 2012 7.8 18.1 47.7 73.6 Depreciation charge for the year 0.4 3.3 10.9 14.6 Disposals 2.3 7.9 10.2 Transferred to disposal group classified as held for sale note 10 0.1 9.9 10.0 Difference on exchange 0.3 1.5 1.8 Depreciation at 31 March 2013 8.2 19.3 42.3 69.8 Net book value at 31 March 2013 13.0 10.8 26.9 50.7 Net book value at 31 March 2012 13.0 10.8 27.7 51.5 The net book value of property, plant and equipment transferred to the disposal group classified as held for sale amounts to 5.0m and relates to assets that are used by the Groups UK highways services business, which forms part of the UK operating segment.
See note 10 for further details regarding this disposal group.
The depreciation charge for the year of 14.6m 2012: 17.1m is included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The market value of freehold land and buildings is estimated at 17.6m 2012: 16.5m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 138 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Included in plant, machinery and vehicles transferred to the disposal group classified as held for sale are equipment and vehicles used by the Groups UK highways services business that are held under finance leases as follows: 2013 2012 m m Cost 12.8 13.8 Accumulated depreciation 8.1 7.4 Net book value 4.7 6.4 There were no additions to property, plant and equipment funded by finance leases during the year 2012: 2.0m.
Investments in subsidiaries Company Total m Cost at 1 April 2011 175.2 Additions 11.7 1 Disposals Cost at 31 March 2012 186.9 Additions 8.3 Cost at 31 March 2013 195.2 Impairment at 1 April 2011, 31 March 2012 0.8 Disposals Impairment at 31 March 2013 0.8 Net book value at 31 March 2013 194.4 Net book value at 31 March 2012 186.1 1.
I n the prior year, the Company disposed of its 35,000 investment in AFML.
Further details in respect of the disposal are given in note 9.
The Groups principal subsidiaries are disclosed in note 40.
During both the current and prior year, the Company increased its investment in Atkins Investments UK Limited to enable it to fulfil its obligation to make shareholder contributions to Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited, see note 22.
Deferred income tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and there is a legally enforceable right to settle tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
The offset amounts are as follows: Group 2013 2012 m m Deferred tax assets: deferred tax assets to be recovered after more than 12 months 91.7 79.6 deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months 0.5 4.6 92.2 84.2 Deferred tax liabilities: deferred tax liabilities to be recovered after more than 12 months 16.2 16.1 deferred tax liabilities to be recovered within 12 months 3.9 2.7 20.1 18.8 Deferred tax assets net 72.1 65.4 Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 139 a Net deferred tax assets liabilities Group 2013 2012 m m Accelerated depreciation 10.9 11.2 Share-based payments 3.7 3.1 Goodwill 1.8 Intangible assets 2.3 1.1 Deferred tax asset on post-employment benefit liabilities 66.2 63.7 Deferred income 8.1 8.1 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 12.5 14.8 Other temporary differences 11.4 9.2 Total deferred income tax 72.1 65.4 b Analysis of movements during the year Group 2013 2012 m m Deferred tax assets at 1 April 65.4 95.0 Deferred tax charged to the income statement note 8 3.5 17.7 Deferred tax on acquisitions 0.4 Deferred tax credited charged to equity 10.3 12.2 Foreign exchange difference on deferred tax 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax assets at 31 March 72.1 65.4 Following the March 2012 Budget Statement, the main rate of UK corporation tax was reduced to 24% from 1 April 2012.
The Finance Act 2012 also enacted a further reduction to the main rate of corporation tax to 23% from 1 April 2013.
Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to lower the rate to 20% by 1 April 2015 but these later reductions had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not included in these Financial Statements.
The proposed reductions to the main rate of UK corporation tax to 20% by 1 April 2015 are expected to be enacted separately each year.
The overall effect of the further changes from 23% to 20%, if these applied to the deferred tax balance at 31 March 2013, would be to reduce the net deferred tax asset by approximately 10.4m being 6.9m recognised in 2014 and 3.5m recognised in 2015.
Available-for-sale financial assets Group 2013 2012 m m At 1 April 6.1 Additions 4.5 Disposals 4.5 Net gains transferred to other comprehensive income 1.6 Net gains transferred from other comprehensive income 1.6 At 31 March 6.1 Available-for-sale financial assets comprised unlisted corporate bonds with a fixed annual return of 10% and maturity date of 25 August 2016.
The bonds were denominated in UAE dirham and were disposed of during the year.
In addition to the net gain of 1.6m transferred from other comprehensive income to the Consolidated Income Statement, a gain on disposal of 0.8m has been included within administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement in relation to this disposal.
The fair value of the bonds at 31 March 2012 was based on recent market transactions.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at 31 March 2012 was the carrying value of the corporate bonds classified as available-for-sale.
At 31 March 2012, none of these financial assets were either past due or impaired.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 140 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued 21.
Derivative financial instruments The table below shows the fair value of forward currency contracts at the year end, based on their market value: Group 2013 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current 0.5 1.4 0.4 1.7 Later than one year and no later than two years 0.3 1.3 0.2 1.2 Later than two years and no later than five years 0.1 1.3 Non-current 0.3 1.3 0.3 2.5 Total 0.8 2.7 0.7 4.2 The notional principal amounts of the outstanding foreign exchange contracts at 31 March 2013 and 2012 are as follows: Group 2013 2012 Sell Buy Sell Buy m m m m Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell USD 12.7 13.1 7.8 7.9 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell EUR 5.6 5.4 13.3 14.0 Forward contracts to purchase GBP, sell Other 4.6 4.7 1.3 1.2 Forward contracts to purchase INR, sell GBP 28.8 29.0 36.2 33.3 Forward contracts to purchase NOK, sell GBP 0.1 0.1 Forward contracts to purchase PLN, sell EUR 0.6 0.6 The hedged highly probable forecast transactions denominated in foreign currency are expected to occur at various dates during the next 12 months.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts as at 31 March 2013 are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects the Consolidated Income Statement.
This is within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is more than 12 months and, as a current asset or liability, if the maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months.
The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows of forward currency contracts at the year end.
Group 2013 2012 Inflow Outflow Net Inflow Outflow Net m m m m m m Current 31.2 32.1 0.9 37.4 38.6 1.2 Later than one year and no later than two years 18.9 19.9 1.0 10.1 11.2 1.1 Later than two years and no later than five years 0.2 0.2 8.5 9.7 1.2 Non-current 19.1 20.1 1.0 18.6 20.9 2.3 Total 50.3 52.2 1.9 56.0 59.5 3.5 The Group used derivative instruments to hedge foreign currency receipts and payments on current contracts, as described in note 2.
All of the Groups financial instruments are classified as Level 2 under amendments to IFRS 7, Financial instruments: disclosures.
A definition of Level 2 financial instruments is included in note 2.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated based on quoted forward currency rates at the balance sheet date.
The Group has reviewed all contracts for embedded derivatives and does not have any such instruments that are closely related to the host contract.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 141 22.
Other receivables Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Non-current assets: Loan notes receivable 29.6 26.4 9.6 8.2 Impairment of loan notes receivable 9.6 8.2 9.6 8.2 20.0 18.2 During the year the Group acquired 1.8m of additional interest-bearing loan notes in Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 2012: 4.9m, a company in which the Group has a 10% shareholding.
Under the terms of the Connect Plus M25 finance agreement, the Group is required to lend Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 20m over a period from May 2009 to October 2012.
This funding is lent on by Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited to Connect Plus M25 Limited, the main trading entity for the Connect Plus M25 project and the company which holds the 30 year PFI contract with the Highways Agency to design, build, fund and then operate and maintain the M25.
One of the subcontractors used by Connect Plus M25 Limited to deliver its main obligations under this project is Connect Plus Services.
The Groups interest in Connect Plus Services is disclosed in note 41 and Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited is considered a related party of the Group.
At 31 March 2013 the Group held 20.0m of interest-bearing loan notes in Connect Plus M25 Intermediate Limited 2012: 18.2m.
In the prior year, the remaining 1.8m was covered by a letter of credit.
These loan notes mature in 2039.
Loan notes receivable of 9.6m arising on the disposal of LSH which have no fixed redemption date have been provided against in full.
In the prior year, loan notes of 6.8m relating to RMPA Holdings Limited were reclassified from other receivables at 31 March 2012 and classified as an asset held for sale, see note 10.
None of the other receivables are past due.
Inventories Group 2013 2012 m m Raw materials and consumables 0.2 1.1 The directors consider that the carrying amount of inventories approximates their fair value.
There were no amounts of inventories written off during the year 2012: nil.
Inventories of 0.8m relating to the Groups UK highways services business have been reclassified from inventories at 31 March 2013 and classified as an asset held for sale, see note 10.
Trade and other receivables Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Current assets: Trade receivables 314.9 310.9 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 24.3 24.6 Trade receivables net 290.6 286.3 Amounts recoverable on contracts 106.5 111.4 Amounts due from subsidiary undertakings note 39 165.2 159.9 Amounts due from joint ventures note 39 7.3 5.2 Other receivables 27.6 25.3 Prepayments and accrued income 17.2 17.1 449.2 445.3 165.2 159.9 The directors consider that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate their fair value.
At 31 March 2013, 172.1m 2012: 160.0m of Group trade receivables were within normal payment terms and considered to be fully performing.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 142 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued At 31 March 2013, 100.1m 2012: 89.8m of Group trade receivables were past due and aged up to six months from invoice date and carried a provision for impairment of 0.4m 2012: 1.0m.
The remaining Group trade receivables of 99.7m 2012: 75.9m which were past due and aged up to six months from invoice date but not impaired relate to a number of independent customers for whom there is no recent history of default.
Group trade receivables aged beyond six months of invoice date totalled 42.7m 2012: 61.1m and carried a provision for impairment of 23.9m 2012: 23.6m.
Movements in the Group provision for impairment of trade receivables were as follows: Group 2013 2012 m m Provision for impairment at beginning of year 24.6 30.5 Increase in provisions 8.7 5.7 Release of provisions 8.7 6.9 Receivables written off as uncollectable 1.2 4.7 Difference on exchange 0.9 Provision for impairment at end of year 24.3 24.6 None of the financial assets that are fully performing were renegotiated during the year.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
At 31 March 2013, 0.5m of the Companys amounts due from subsidiary undertakings were fully provided against 2012: 9.5m, with an in year release of provisions of 9.0m 2012: 32.6m, see note 39.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss In accordance with IFRS 7, disclosure is required for financial instruments that are measured in the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value.
This requires disclosure of fair value measurements by level.
The Groups financial assets that are measured and recognised at fair value through profit or loss include certificates of deposit, fixed interest securities, life insurance policies, floating rate notes and UK treasury bills.
The Groups financial liabilities that are measured and recognised at fair value include derivative financial instruments.
The fair value of the Groups derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 21.
The following table presents the Groups financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss.
Group 2013 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total m m m m m m Certificates of deposit 16.7 16.7 16.0 16.0 Floating rate notes 4.4 4.4 2.8 2.8 Fixed interest securities 8.3 8.3 12.2 12.2 UK treasury bills 2.7 2.7 0.6 0.6 Life insurance policies 3.8 3.8 3.4 3.4 Marketable securities 15.4 20.5 35.9 15.6 19.4 35.0 A definition of Level 1 and Level 2 financial instruments is included in note 2.
There have been no changes to the classification of financial assets between Level 1 and Level 2 financial instruments at 31 March 2013 or 2012.
Changes in fair values of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include fair value gains of 0.3m 2012: 0.5m and fair value losses of 0.2m 2012: 0.4m.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 143 26.
Cash and cash equivalents Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Cash at bank and in hand 153.5 71.3 0.3 10.6 Short term bank deposits 48.0 95.7 201.5 167.0 0.3 10.6 The effective interest rate on cash and cash equivalents was 0.7% 2012: 0.6%.
Included within cash at bank and in hand is 0.1m 2012: nil held by the Companys EBTs.
Borrowings Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Liabilities held for sale Total Borrowings note 10 m m m m Current Bank loans 59.8 59.8 104.0 59.8 104.0 Finance leases 1.4 1.4 1.7 61.2 1.4 59.8 105.7 59.8 104.0 Non-current Private placement debt 49.3 49.3 49.3 Finance leases 3.9 3.8 0.1 4.9 53.2 3.8 49.4 4.9 49.3 The directors consider that the carrying amount of current borrowings approximates their fair value.
The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the non-current borrowings was as follows: Group 2013 2012 Private Liabilities placement Finance held for sale debt leases note 10 Total m m m m m Repayable: Later than one year and no later than two years 1.3 1.3 1.5 Later than two years and no later than five years 2.2 2.1 0.1 2.7 Later than five years 49.3 0.4 0.4 49.3 0.7 49.3 3.9 3.8 49.4 4.9 The carrying amount of borrowings are denominated in the following currencies: Group 2013 2012 Bank loans and private Liabilities placement Finance held for sale Bank Finance debt leases note 10 Total loans leases Total m m m m m m m Sterling 5.2 5.2 6.5 6.5 US dollar 109.1 0.1 109.2 104.0 0.1 104.1 109.1 5.3 5.2 109.2 104.0 6.6 110.6 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 144 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The total present value of minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: Group 2013 2012 Liabilities Finance held for sale leases note 10 Total m m m m No later than one year 1.7 1.7 2.0 Later than one year and no later than five years 3.7 3.6 0.1 4.5 Later than five years 0.4 0.4 0.6 5.8 5.7 0.1 7.1 Future finance charges on finance leases 0.5 0.5 0.5 Present value of finance lease payables 5.3 5.2 0.1 6.6 Finance leases are on a fixed repayment basis, with interest rates fixed at the contract date.
The average effective borrowing rate for all finance leases, including those classified as held for sale, was 6.2% 2012: 6.1% over a weighted average remaining period of 52 months 2012: 59 months.
Borrowing facilities The Group has the following undrawn committed borrowing facilities available at 31 March expiring as follows: Group 2013 2012 m m Later than one year and no later than two years 113.3 Later than two years and no later than five years 35.4 All of the Groups undrawn committed borrowing facilities will be subject to floating rates of interest.
The Groups principal borrowing facilities of 150.0m, signed on 30 July 2010, are unsecured and include borrowings and letter of credit facilities.
This facility will expire on 30 July 2014.
The total letters of credit in issue under the committed facility at 31 March 2013 was 6.9m 31 March 2012: 10.6m.
On 4 October 2012, the Group agreed a new committed borrowing facility with the Bank of America, N. A. London Branch of 30m.
As at the date of signing these Financial Statements, this facility was undrawn.
The Groups borrowing facilities include a number of undertakings and financial covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored.
As at 31 March 2013, and since, there have been no breaches.
During the year, the Group raised $75m through the successful execution of its debut issue in the US private placement market.
The proceeds were used to repay drawn funds under the Groups existing banking facilities.
The private placement is due for repayment on 31 May 2019 and carries a nominal interest rate of 4.38%.
Trade and other payables Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Current liabilities: Trade payables 74.3 87.8 Fees invoiced in advance 165.9 173.1 Amounts due to subsidiary undertakings note 39 82.0 84.5 Social security and other taxation 41.3 32.5 Deferred PPP PFI bid costs recovered and development fees 0.1 3.2 Accruals and deferred income 170.5 175.2 1.1 0.3 Other payables 34.6 34.3 486.7 506.1 83.1 84.8 The directors consider that the carrying values of the Groups trade and other payables approximate their fair value.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 145 29.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Group 2013 2012 Vacant Vacant property property m m Current 1.5 3.6 Later than one year and no later than two years 1.5 2.3 Later than two years and no later than five years 2.0 3.0 Later than five years 0.9 1.5 Non-current 4.4 6.8 Total 5.9 10.4 Group Vacant property m Balance at 1 April 2012 10.4 Provisions charged to the income statement 2.2 Provisions released to the income statement 3.3 Provisions utilised 3.5 Unwinding of discount 0.1 Balance at 31 March 2013 5.9 The vacant property provision is discounted and is expected to be utilised over the next 13 years 2012: 11 years.
No provision has been released or utilised for any purpose other than that for which it was established.
As at 31 March 2013, the Company held no provisions 2012: nil.
Post-employment benefit liabilities The Groups post-employment benefit liabilities are analysed below: Group 2013 2012 m m Retirement benefit liabilities 285.2 251.1 Other post-employment benefit liabilities 13.6 14.2 298.8 265.3 a Retirement benefit liabilities The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The two main defined benefit schemes are the Atkins Pension Plan the Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme, both of which are funded final salary schemes.
The assets of both schemes are held in separate trustee-administered funds.
Other pension schemes include the Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan in the Republic of Ireland, which is a final salary funded defined benefit scheme, and a range of defined contribution schemes or equivalent.
The Plan is closed to the future accrual of benefit: all defined benefit members of the Plan were transferred to a defined contribution section for future service where it was clear they did not benefit from a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension.
In the prior year, Atkins Limited undertook an enhanced transfer value ETV exercise for deferred members of the Plan.
The exercise gave rise to a settlement gain under IAS 19 in respect of those members who transferred out their benefits.
The Plan recognised a net settlement gain of 0.1m in respect of the ETV exercise for the year ended 31 March 2013.
This is to allow for the difference between the expected impact of the exercise already included in the 31 March 2012 disclosures and the actual impact of the exercise.
The settlement gain of 0.1m is based on the transfer out of the plan of a further 1.3m of assets and corresponding liabilities of 1.4m in respect of those members.
Also in the prior year, on 1 February 2012 and following a consultation programme with employees who are members of the Plan, Atkins Limited the Groups principal UK employing company removed the link between individual employees accrued pension and future increases in salary via contractual amendment.
The reduction in the past service liability was 30.9m and this was recognised as a curtailment gain in the year ended 31 March 2012.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 146 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued The Railways Pension Scheme recognised a curtailment gain in the year ended 31 March 2013 in respect of the two new benefit bases that came into effect for certain members from 1 January 2013.
The curtailment gain arose for members moving from the existing uncapped salary category or retail price index RPI capped salary category to the new consumer price index CPI capped category.
The reduction in the past service liability for this curtailment is 4.3m and this has been recognised as a curtailment gain in the year ended 31 March 2013.
The Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan was closed to future accrual of benefits for members who do not benefit from a statutory or contractual right to a final salary pension on 31 March 2009.
These members transferred to the Personal Retirement Savings Accounts Ireland PRSA Irish Life scheme with effect from 1 April 2009.
The defined benefit sections of all pension schemes are closed to new entrants, who are offered membership of the defined contribution section.
Membership of the Groups principal pension schemes is as follows: Defined benefit schemes Defined contribution schemes Atkins Pension Railways Pension Atkins Pension Plan Scheme Plan Faithful Gould 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 No.
Members 10 17 216 236 7,207 6,579 886 760 Deferred pensioners 7,214 7,703 318 325 8,512 8,036 1,294 1,260 Pensioners 3,274 3,143 338 315 10,498 10,863 872 876 15,719 14,615 2,180 2,020 The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of the retirement benefit liabilities for the Atkins Pension Plan and the Railways Pension Scheme are listed in the table below: 2013 2012 Price inflation RPI 3.40% 3.30% CPI 2.40% 2.30% Rate of increase of pensions in payment Limited Price Indexation RPI-based 3.10% 3.30% Limited Price Indexation CPI-based 2.40% 2.30% Limited Price Indexation to 2.5% 2.50% 2.50% Fixed 5.00% 5.00% Rate of increase in salaries Atkins Pension Plan 4.90% 4.80% Railways Pension Scheme uncapped 5.65% 5.55% Railways Pension Scheme RPI capped 3.40% 3.30% Railways Pension Scheme CPI capped 2.40% n a Rate of increase for deferred pensioners Atkins Pension Plan 3.40% 3.30% Railways Pension Scheme 2.40% 2.30% Discount rate 4.60% 5.20% Expected rate of return on plan assets 5.70% 6.30% Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners Men 24.0 years 23.8 years Women 25.9 years 25.7 years Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners current age 45 Men 26.2 years 26.1 years Women 28.2 years 28.1 years The actuarial tables used to calculate the retirement benefit liabilities for the Plan were the Self-Administered Pension Schemes SAPS tables, with medium cohort improvements from 2002 to 2009 and a scaling factor of 0.85 0.90 for males females respectively.
Future improvements are based on CMI improvements with a 1.5% per annum improvement trend, based on year of use application.
The Railways Pension Scheme results have been adjusted on an approximate basis to be based on the same mortality tables.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 147 The components of the pension cost are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Current service cost 0.2 2.0 2.2 Curtailment gain 4.3 4.3 Settlement gain net 0.1 0.1 Total charge credit 0.1 2.3 2.2 Finance costs income Interest cost 57.3 10.5 0.3 68.1 Expected return on plan assets 50.4 9.9 0.4 60.7 Net finance costs income 6.9 0.6 0.1 7.4 Total charge credit to income statement for defined benefit schemes 7.0 1.7 0.1 5.2 Charge for defined contribution schemes 32.8 32.8 Total charge credit to income statement 7.0 1.7 32.7 38.0 Statement of comprehensive income Gain on pension scheme assets 93.3 7.4 0.3 101.0 Changes in assumptions 123.8 25.1 4.9 153.8 Actuarial loss 30.5 17.7 4.6 52.8 Deferred tax credited to equity note 19 5.6 3.7 0.6 9.9 Actuarial loss net of deferred tax 24.9 14.0 4.0 42.9 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Current service cost 0.4 2.9 3.3 Curtailment gain 31.5 31.5 Settlement gain net 1.8 1.8 Total credit charge 32.9 2.9 30.0 Finance costs income Interest cost 59.5 11.0 0.4 70.9 Expected return on plan assets 48.9 10.6 0.5 60.0 Net finance costs 10.6 0.4 0.1 10.9 Total credit charge to income statement for defined benefit schemes 22.3 3.3 0.1 19.1 Charge for defined contribution schemes 31.0 31.0 Total credit charge to income statement 22.3 3.3 30.9 11.9 Statement of comprehensive income Gain loss on pension scheme assets 88.2 4.1 0.3 83.8 Changes in assumptions 46.7 1.5 0.3 45.5 Actuarial gain loss 41.5 2.6 0.6 38.3 Deferred tax charged credited to equity note 19 13.5 0.1 13.4 Actuarial gain loss net of deferred tax 28.0 2.5 0.6 24.9 The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectations at the beginning of the year for returns over the entire life of the benefit obligation.
Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Defined benefit obligation 1,248.8 233.4 12.2 1,494.4 Fair value of plan assets 1,027.9 173.8 7.5 1,209.2 Retirement benefit liabilities 220.9 59.6 4.7 285.2 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 148 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Defined benefit obligation 1,116.5 206.2 7.1 1,329.8 Fair value of plan assets 911.9 160.2 6.6 1,078.7 Retirement benefit liabilities 204.6 46.0 0.5 251.1 Other includes the Atkins McCarthy Pension Plan and an unfunded pension obligation in relation to a former director, for 0.9m 2012: 0.8m.
The major categories of plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: Expected asset return Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme 2013 % % m % m Equities 7.50 42.3 435.3 62.1 107.9 Bonds 4.10 53.4 548.6 28.1 48.8 Property 5.80 3.9 39.6 9.4 16.4 Other cash 2.30 0.4 4.4 0.4 0.7 100.0 1,027.9 100.0 173.8 Expected asset return Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme 2012 % % m % m Equities 7.50 49.3 449.2 59.9 96.0 Bonds 4.70 46.1 420.4 29.4 47.1 Property 6.10 4.4 40.2 10.4 16.7 Other cash 2.60 0.2 2.1 0.3 0.4 100.0 911.9 100.0 160.2 The plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments or property occupied by the Group.
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 1,116.5 206.2 7.1 1,329.8 Service cost 0.2 2.0 2.2 Curtailment gain 4.3 4.3 Settlement gain 1.4 1.4 Interest cost 57.3 10.5 0.3 68.1 Change of assumptions 123.8 25.1 4.9 153.8 Employee contributions 0.1 1.4 1.5 Benefit payments 47.7 7.5 0.2 55.4 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 1,248.8 233.4 12.2 1,494.4 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 149 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 1,074.4 201.0 6.7 1,282.1 Service cost 0.4 2.9 3.3 Curtailment gain 31.5 31.5 Settlement gain 3.1 3.1 Interest cost 59.5 11.0 0.4 70.9 Change of assumptions 46.7 1.5 0.3 45.5 Employee contributions 0.1 1.7 1.8 Benefit payments 30.0 8.9 38.9 Difference on exchange 0.3 0.3 Defined benefit obligation at end of year 1,116.5 206.2 7.1 1,329.8 Movements in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 911.9 160.2 6.6 1,078.7 Expected return on plan assets 50.4 9.9 0.4 60.7 Settlement gain 1.3 1.3 Employer contributions 21.2 2.4 0.3 23.9 Employee contributions 0.1 1.4 1.5 Benefits paid 47.7 7.5 0.2 55.4 Actuarial gain 93.3 7.4 0.3 101.0 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 1,027.9 173.8 7.5 1,209.2 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Fair value of plan assets at beginning of year 779.6 158.4 6.3 944.3 Expected return on plan assets 48.9 10.6 0.5 60.0 Settlement gain 1.3 1.3 Employer contributions 26.4 2.5 0.3 29.2 Employee contributions 0.1 1.7 1.8 Benefits paid 30.0 8.9 38.9 Actuarial gain loss 88.2 4.1 0.3 83.8 Difference on exchange 0.2 0.2 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 911.9 160.2 6.6 1,078.7 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 150 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Movements in the retirement benefit liabilities are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year 204.6 46.0 0.5 251.1 Service cost 0.2 2.0 2.2 Net finance costs 6.9 0.6 0.1 7.4 Curtailment gain 4.3 4.3 Settlement gain net 0.1 0.1 Contributions 21.2 2.4 0.3 23.9 Actuarial loss 30.5 17.7 4.6 52.8 Difference on exchange Retirement benefit liabilities at end of year 220.9 59.6 4.7 285.2 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Retirement benefit liabilities at beginning of year 294.8 42.6 0.4 337.8 Service cost 0.4 2.9 3.3 Net finance costs 10.6 0.4 0.1 10.9 Curtailment gain 31.5 31.5 Settlement gain 1.8 1.8 Contributions 26.4 2.5 0.3 29.2 Actuarial gain loss 41.5 2.6 0.6 38.3 Difference on exchange 0.1 0.1 Retirement benefit liabilities at end of year 204.6 46.0 0.5 251.1 Cumulative net actuarial losses recognised in equity are as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m At beginning of year 167.2 18.5 2.1 187.8 Net actuarial loss recognised in the year 30.5 17.7 4.6 52.8 At end of year 197.7 36.2 6.7 240.6 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m At beginning of year 208.7 15.9 1.5 226.1 Net actuarial gain loss recognised in the year 41.5 2.6 0.6 38.3 At end of year 167.2 18.5 2.1 187.8 The return on plan assets is as follows: Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2013 m m m m Expected return on plan assets 50.4 9.9 0.4 60.7 Experience gain on plan assets 93.3 7.4 0.3 101.0 Actual return on plan assets 143.7 17.3 0.7 161.7 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 151 Railways Atkins Pension Pension Plan Scheme Other Total 2012 m m m m Expected return on plan assets 48.9 10.6 0.5 60.0 Experience gain loss on plan assets 88.2 4.1 0.3 83.8 Actual return on plan assets 137.1 6.5 0.2 143.8 History of experience gains and losses: 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Total Total Total Total Total Experience gain loss on scheme assets 101.0m 83.8m 2.5 m 125.2m 194.2 m Percentage of scheme assets 8.4% 7.8% 0.3 % 14.2% 27.5 % Experience loss gain on scheme liabilities 1.9 m 4.4m 43.8 m 0.3 m 9.1m Percentage of defined benefit obligation 0.1% 0.3 % 3.4 % 0.9 % Defined benefit obligation 1,494.4 m 1,329.8 m 1,282.1 m 1,322.7 m 1,003.4 m Fair value of plan assets 1,209.2m 1,078.7m 944.3m 882.7m 705.0m Retirement benefit liability 285.2 m 251.1 m 337.8 m 440.0 m 298.4 m The Group expects employer contributions to be paid during the financial year to 31 March 2014 to be around 35.1m, of which 32.0m is in relation to the funding of the actuarial deficit, and employee contributions paid to be around 1.6m.
Expected benefit payments made directly by the Group to pensioners in the financial year to 31 March 2014 are nil.
The approximate effect on the liabilities from changes in the main assumptions used to value the liabilities are as follows: Effect on plan liabilities Change in assumption Atkins Pension Plan Railways Pension Scheme Discount rate increase decrease 0.5% decrease increase 10.0% decrease increase 8.0% Inflation increase decrease 0.5% increase decrease 5.0% increase decrease 8.0% Real rate of increase in salaries increase decrease 0.5% increase decrease 2.0% increase decrease 1.0% Longevity increase 1 year increase 3.0% increase 2.0% The effect of the change in inflation on liabilities assumes a corresponding change in salary increases and inflation-related pension increases.
b Other post-employment benefit liabilities The Group operates unfunded schemes within certain of its non-UK businesses, including Gratuity schemes, Key Employee Supplemental Option Plans KESOP and post-retirement medical benefit schemes.
Members of the Gratuity schemes are entitled to receive a cash gratuity on leaving the business which is dependent on their length of employment and final salary.
Valuation of the gratuity obligation is carried out in line with the principles of IAS 19, Employee benefits.
The Group operates a KESOP providing some key officers and employees in its North American business the business with post-retirement benefits, known as the Supplemental Income Program SIP.
The SIP is an unfunded plan that provides participants with retirement income for a specified period of between 5 and 15 years upon retirement, death or disability.
The plan fixes a minimum level for retirement benefits to be paid to participants based on the participants position in the business, their age and length of service at retirement.
Additionally, certain executive agreements have been amended to provide post-retirement medical benefits to those employees and their spouses, at a level substantially similar to those medical and hospitalisation benefits paid and provided to senior executives currently employed by the business.
The insurance benefits will be provided without any further or additional services from the employee to the business and they will be paid for and provided for as long as the employee and their spouse shall live.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 152 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Group 2013 2012 m m Other post-employment obligations at beginning of year 14.2 12.5 Service cost and other comprehensive income 2.0 3.5 Interest cost 0.7 0.6 Net actuarial loss recognised in the year 0.2 Benefit payments 4.2 2.5 Difference on exchange 0.7 0.1 Other post-employment obligations at end of year 13.6 14.2 The main assumptions used for the IAS 19 valuation of other post-employment benefits are listed in the table below.
2013 2012 Gratuity scheme Discount rate 5.00% 5.00% Salary inflation 3.00% 3.00% Average remaining service period 2 years 2 years KESOP scheme Discount rate 1.05% 2.05% Medical plan Discount rate 3.75% 4.60% Healthcare cost trend rate for next year 7.50% 8.00% Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed to decline 5.00% 5.00% Year that rate reaches ultimate trend rate 2021 2018 31.
Other non-current liabilities Group 2013 2012 m m Deferred PPP PFI bid costs recovered, maturing: Later than one year and no later than two years 0.1 0.1 Later than two years and no later than five years 0.2 0.2 Later than five years 1.2 1.3 1.5 1.6 As at 31 March 2012, 3.0m of success fees were redisclosed as current following the agreement to sell the Groups minority interest in RMPA Holdings Limited, resulting in the acceleration of the release during the financial year ended 31 March 2013.
Ordinary shares Group and Company 2013 2012 No.
shares m Issued, allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 0.5p each At 1 April 104,451,799 0.5 104,451,799 0.5 At 31 March 104,451,799 0.5 104,451,799 0.5 At the 2012 annual general meeting AGM shareholder authority was obtained for the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 10,011,000 of its own ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company on 13 June 2012 for a period ending on the earlier of the next AGM or 1 November 2013, provided that certain conditions relating to the purchase price are met.
The notice of meeting for the AGM to be held at 1100 hours on Wednesday 31 July 2013 proposes that shareholders approve a resolution updating and renewing this authority.
Shares in the Company may also be purchased by the Companys EBTs.
As at the date of this report there were 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5 pence each nominal value 21,705 held as treasury shares.
No shares were purchased during the year ended 31 March 2013 2012: nil.
The 4,341,000 treasury shares, which represent approximately 4.2% of the total 2012: 4.2% of the called up share capital as at the date of this report, have not been cancelled and represent a deduction from shareholders equity.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 153 33.
Share-based payments Long Term Incentive Plans WS Atkins plc Long Term Growth Unit plan LGU August 2012 onwards A share plan for senior executives where units are granted at a base price which is normally based on the six month average share price calculated at the date of grant.
The vesting of units occurs in three equal tranches on the fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the date of grant.
Vesting is subject to a financial underpin which is considered by the Remuneration Committee.
On exercise, the value of each unit is equal to the increase, if any, in the average share price of one notional Company share between the grant date and the exercise date.
Any such increase will normally be calculated using the six month average share price.
No more than 50% of a participants total number of units subject to a single award may be exercised in any 12 month rolling period.
The increase will usually be delivered in the form of a nil cost option except in the US, where awards are granted as market value options and are scaled back on exercise to allow only the exercise of options equivalent to the gain that would have been made under a non-US award.
The units will generally be settled in equity.
As a general rule, awards granted to participants who leave employment prior to vesting will be forfeited.
In the event a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason, they receive a pro rated entitlement.
WS Atkins plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP August 2012 onwards A share plan for senior executives used to grant awards that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
Subject to the Companys real growth in absolute EPS over the performance period.
The growth target requires the increase to be more than 12% per annum in the three year performance period to allow full vesting.
If the increase is less than 5% per annum, there will be no vesting.
If the increase is 5% per annum, vesting will be at 25%, and a sliding scale operates between 5% and 12% per annum.
Subject to vesting, participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared following grant, without interest.
Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP September 2006 to July 2012 A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
There are different performance targets for different categories of management.
Grants made to executive directors and senior employees have 50% of the grant subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts at the start of the performance period.
Full vesting of this portion of the grant will take place if the Company is ranked in the upper quartile and 30% vesting will be achieved with a median ranking, with pro rata vesting for intermediate performance.
No vesting will occur for a ranking below median.
The remaining 50% of the grant made to executive directors and senior employees is subject to the Companys real growth in underlying EPS over the performance period.
For the 2006 and subsequent grants, the growth target requires the increase to be more than 10% per annum above the UK RPI in the three year performance period to allow full vesting.
If the increase is less than 4% per annum above the UK RPI, then there will be no vesting.
If the increase is 4% per annum above the UK RPI, vesting will be at 30%, and a sliding scale operates between 4% and 10% above the UK RPI.
Awards granted to other participants are subject solely to the EPS condition.
Subject to vesting, participants are entitled to receive the benefit of dividends declared following grant without interest.
Atkins Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP September 2003 to August 2006 A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
The performance condition was TSR with an EPS growth underpin measured over three financial years starting with the financial year beginning immediately after the award was granted.
Full vesting of any award took place for a TSR performance where the Company ranked in the top 20% in a group of up to 16 comparator companies, 30% vesting for median ranking and no vesting if TSR fell below the median.
The EPS underpin was the UK RPI plus 2% per annum.
As a general rule, awards granted to participants who left employment prior to vesting were forfeited.
In the event a participant left as a result of a qualifying reason, they received a pro rated entitlement.
All awards have now vested.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 154 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Deferred Share Plans Atkins Deferred Bonus Plan DBP A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or, in limited circumstances, in cash.
There is no performance condition but awards are restricted for at least three years from the date of grant.
In the event a participant leaves as a result of a qualifying reason, they will receive their award in full.
Atkins Deferred Share Plan DSP A share plan for senior executives and key employees used to grant awards to employees that are settled in equity or in cash.
There is no performance condition but awards are restricted for a set period from the date of grant, fixed by the Remuneration Committee at grant.
Awards granted to executive directors in relation to the executive bonus scheme are restricted for three years from the date of grant.
The Groups share-based payments charge for the year of 7.5m 2012: 7.4m has been included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The effect of the share-based payment transactions on the Groups results and financial position is as follows: Group 2013 2012 m m Total expense recognised for equity settled share-based payment transactions 6.5 6.4 Total expense recognised for cash settled share-based payment transactions 1.0 1.0 7.5 7.4 Closing balance of liability for cash settled share-based payment transactions 2.5 2.1 As at 31 March 2013 the following awards were outstanding: LTIPs LGU DBP DSP Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average exercise exercise exercise transfer transfer transfer 1 No.
price price Awards outstanding at 1 April 2011 1,100,613 0.30p 2,864,086 Granted 202,648 875,259 Exercised transferred 102,645 660,682 Lapsed 359,996 303 Forfeited 95,053 91,544 Awards outstanding at 1 April 2012 745,567 2,986,816 Granted 284,215 209,768 207.19p 1,215,077 Exercised transferred 61,226 753,101 Lapsed 250,221 4,000 Forfeited 112,390 Awards outstanding at 31 March 2013 718,335 209,768 207.19p 3,332,402 The weighted average exercise price of LGU awards is calculated by reference to both non-US awards, where the increase in value is delivered in the form of a nil cost option, and US awards, where the awards take the form of market value options.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 743.93 pence 2012: 711.00 pence.
On 13 August 2012 the Company issued awards over 284,215 shares to employees under the LTIP and 209,768 units to employees under the LGU.
On 19 November 2012 the Company issued awards over 140,850 shares to employees under the DSP.
At 31 March 2013 the Companys EBTs held a beneficial interest in 2,831,737 shares 2012: 2,589,261 shares at a nominal value of 0.0m 2012: 0.0m and market value of 25.8m 2012: 19.0m.
The weighted average fair value of awards granted during the year was 689.36 pence 2012: 723.04 pence.
Fair value of awards with market performance conditions WS Atkins plc Long Term Growth Unit plan August 2012 onwards The Black Scholes Model was used for the purposes of valuing LGU awards granted in the current year.
The model calculated the fair value of awards granted, upon which the share-based payments charge is based.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: LGU 2013 Exercise price six month average at grant date 718.32p 718.32p 718.32p Risk-free interest rate 0.330% 0.537% 0.711% Volatility of share price 35.0% 35.0% 35.0% Share price at grant 670.00p 670.00p 670.00p Base value six month average share price at grant date 718.32p 718.32p 718.32p Expected term 4 years from 5 years from 6 years from grant date grant date grant date WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 156 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued Atkins Long Term Incentive plan September 2006 to July 2012 The Monte Carlo model was used for the purposes of valuing LTIP awards with the TSR market performance condition which were granted in the prior year.
The model calculated the fair value of the awards granted, upon which the share-based payments charge is based in the prior year, current year and through the future year s until vesting.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows.
LTIP 2012 Exercise price nil Risk-free interest rate n a Discount in respect of dividend yield 0% Volatility of share price 38.0% Share price at grant date: 20 06 2011 760.0p Expected term 3 years from grant date No awards granted in the current year contained a TSR market performance condition.
Volatility was determined based on the movement in share price over a period prior to the grant date equal in length to the period over which the TSR condition applies, which equated to a three year share price history.
The fair value of share plans involving market performance conditions takes into account market information.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, the Monte Carlo model simulates TSR for the Company and a comparator group.
In 2012 the comparator group consisted of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts at the start of the performance period.
The model takes into account historic dividends and share price volatilities for the Company and the comparator group to produce a predicted distribution of relative share performance.
Awards that do not contain market performance conditions are valued at market value at the date of award and discounted in the event that the award does not benefit from dividend equivalents during the vesting period.
Cash generated from continuing operations Group Group Company Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Note m m m m Profit for the year 88.4 106.8 23.4 42.7 Adjustments for: Income tax 8 14.9 28.7 Finance income 7 3.4 4.1 2.2 1.9 Finance costs 7 12.5 14.9 4.4 2.5 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures 4 3.8 1.9 Other non-cash costs income 4.5 2.9 Depreciation charges 17 14.6 17.1 Profit on disposal of businesses non-controlling interests 9 4.5 7.2 0.5 9.2 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 16 14.0 9.5 Release of deferred income 28 3.1 0.2 Share-based payment charge 33 6.5 6.4 Pensions settlement and curtailment gain 30 4.4 33.3 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.5 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 20 0.8 Dividends received 16.1 2.2 Movement in provisions 29 4.7 5.7 Movement in inventories 23 0.1 0.3 Movement in trade and other receivables 24 4.4 19.5 5.7 2.2 Movement in payables 28 31.5 11.3 10.3 5.4 Movement in non-current payables 0.2 2.9 Actuarial deficit funding 30 21.0 26.0 Cash generated from continuing operations 82.9 68.6 13.6 35.1 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 157 35.
Analysis of net funds 1 April Cash Other nonExchange At 31 March 2012 flow cash changes movement 2013 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 167.0 31.0 3.5 201.5 Loan notes receivable 25.1 1.8 6.9 20.0 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 35.0 0.4 1.3 35.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 6.1 6.9 0.8 Borrowings due no later than one year 104.0 47.5 3.3 59.8 Borrowings due later than one year 47.5 1.8 49.3 Finance leases 6.6 1.8 0.5 5.3 Net funds 122.6 27.3 5.3 1.6 143.0 36.
Contingent liabilities The Group has given indemnities in respect of performance and contractual-related bonds, as well as letters of credit issued on its behalf.
The amount outstanding at 31 March 2013 includes 6.9m letters of credit issued as a result of the acquisition of PBSJ.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Group acquired PBSJ.
Prior to the acquisition, the Audit Committee of the board of directors of PBSJ undertook an internal investigation to determine whether any laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA, had been violated in connection with certain projects undertaken by PBS&J International, Inc. one of PBSJs subsidiary undertakings.
The investigation suggested that FCPA violations may have occurred but did not extend beyond this company and that none of PBSJs executive management were involved in criminal conduct.
PBSJ voluntarily disclosed this matter to the Department of Justice and to the securities and exchange commission SEC and is cooperating fully with their review.
The FCPA provides for penalties, criminal and civil sanctions and other remedies.
Neither at the date of acquisition nor at subsequent year ends has management been able to estimate the potential penalties that may be imposed and therefore no provision had been made.
It is not considered possible to determine an accurate estimate of the fines and penalties imposed as they are not formula driven or in any way the result of a predefined calculation.
The Group does not have an estimate of when this will be resolved but it is considered unlikely to be within the next financial year.
Group companies are from time to time involved in claims and litigation.
The Group carries significant professional indemnity insurance cover for such claims.
Operating lease arrangements The Group leases various offices under operating lease arrangements.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group also leases vehicles, plant and equipment under operating lease arrangements.
At the end of the reporting period, the future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: 2013 2012 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment Group m m m m No later than one year 44.1 8.9 43.6 7.5 Later than one year and no later than five years 94.9 12.6 111.3 12.0 Later than five years 38.3 47.7 177.3 21.5 202.6 19.5 Included within vehicles, plant and equipment are future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases of 0.3m and 0.1m expiring no later than one year and later than one year but no later than five years respectively, relating to the Groups UK highways services business.
This business has been disclosed as an asset held for sale in these Financial Statements and further information regarding the transaction is provided in note 10.
The Company had no operating lease commitments as at 31 March 2013 2012: none.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 158 Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements continued At the end of the reporting period, the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are receivable as follows: 2013 2012 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment Group m m m m No later than one year 2.5 2.0 0.4 Later than one year and no later than five years 4.3 5.1 0.5 Later than five years 0.5 0.8 7.3 7.9 0.9 The Company had no operating lease receivables as at 31 March 2013 2012: none.
Capital and other financial commitments Group 2013 2012 m m Capital expenditure contracted for but not incurred property, plant and equipment 2.9 1.4 At 31 March 2013 the Group was committed to make payments for equity and debt into SPCs under PFI contracts of nil 2012: 1.8m, see note 22.
Related party transactions Details of the directors shareholdings, share options and remuneration are given in the Remuneration Report page 95, which forms part of these Financial Statements.
Transactions with the retirement benefit schemes are shown in note 30.
Details of the Companys principal subsidiaries are shown in note 40 and its principal joint ventures in note 41.
Provision of goods and services to and purchases of goods and services from related parties were made at the rates charged to external customers.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provision has been made for doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by related parties and nil charged to income and expense 2012: nil.
a Group sales and purchases of goods and services Group 2013 2012 m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures 40.0 40.5 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures b G roup year end balances arising from sales purchases of goods and services to from joint ventures and loans provided to joint ventures Group 2013 2012 m m Receivables from joint ventures note 24 7.3 5.2 Receivables from joint ventures are shown net of contract-related provisions of nil 2012: nil.
Payables to joint ventures c Group year end balances arising from loans provided to other related parties Group 2013 2012 m m Receivables from related parties note 22 20.0 18.2 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 159 d Company sales purchases of goods and services to from subsidiaries The Company did not sell any goods or services to subsidiaries during the year 2012: nil.
The Company did not purchase any goods or services from its subsidiaries during the year 2012: nil.
e Company year end balances with subsidiaries Company 2013 2012 m m Receivables from subsidiaries note 24 165.2 159.9 Payables to subsidiaries note 28 82.0 84.5 Receivables from subsidiaries are shown net of impairment of 0.5m 2012: 9.5m, see note 24. f Key management compensation Key management comprises the executive and non-executive directors, and certain senior managers who are members of the senior leadership team SLT.
Group 2013 2012 m m Salaries and other short term employment benefits 6.3 5.2 Post-employment benefits 0.1 0.2 Share-based payments 1.8 1.9 8.2 7.3 The deferred share award element of any bonus paid to key management is not included in the salaries and other short term employment benefits number as it is included in the share-based payment charge in subsequent years.
Subsidiary undertakings The following companies were the principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31 March 2013: Class and Country of registration percentage incorporation of shares held Nature of business 1 Atkins Australasia Pty Ltd Australia 100% ordinary Consulting engineers Atkins Beta Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company Atkins China Limited Hong Kong 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Atkins Consultants Shenzen Co Ltd China 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Atkins Danmark A S Denmark 100% ordinary Consulting engineers Atkins Gamma Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company 1 Atkins Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers Atkins Investments UK Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Investment holding company 1 Atkins North America, Inc USA 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 Faithful Gould, Inc USA 100% ordinary Project and programme management consultants 1 Faithful Gould Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Quantity surveyors and cost estimators 1 Faithful Gould Saudi Arabia Limited Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 100% ordinary Project and programme management consultants 1 Peter R Brown Construction, Inc USA 100% ordinary Construction management services The Atkins North America USA 100% ordinary Investment holding company 1 Holdings Corporation 1 WS Atkins & Partners Overseas Gibraltar 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins India Private Limited India 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins, Inc USA 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins Insurance Guernsey Limited Guernsey 100% ordinary Insurance 1 WS Atkins International & Co LLC Oman 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1 WS Atkins International Limited England and Wales 100% ordinary Consulting engineers 1.
Owned by a subsidiary undertaking other than WS Atkins plc.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013 Financial Statements 160 Financial Statements N No ot te es t s to t o th he F e Fi in na an nc ci ia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts s co cont ntiin nu ue ed d The percentage of the issued share capital held by the Group is equivalent to the percentage of voting rights held.
The Group holds the whole of all classes of issued share capital.
All the above operate in the country of registration, except for WS Atkins & Partners Overseas, which operates in the Middle East.
A full list of subsidiary companies will be filed at Companies House with the Companys Annual Return.
Joint ventures The following represents the principal joint ventures in which the Group participated during the year: Date of last Proportion audited of shares financial External 2 Name Nature of business interest held statements auditors 1 Connect Plus Services unincorporated Joint venture undertaking operation and 32.5% n a n a maintenance work on the M25, Londons orbital motorway.
1 Engage SNC A French General Partnership providing architect 25.0% 31 Dec 2012 KPMG S. A. engineering services for the ITER programme, a nuclear fusion reactor in France.
1 Nuclear Atkins Assystem Alliance SNC A French General Partnership providing consultancy 50.0% 31 Dec 2012 KPMG S. A. and engineering services to the international nuclear new-build market, operating internationally from offices in France.
P roportion of shares held where incorporated is in respect of ordinary share capital.
There are no special rights or constraints on the shares.
There are no restrictions on distributions from any of these joint ventures.
Events after the balance sheet date Sale of the Groups UK highways services business The Group expects to complete the sale of its UK highways services business to Skanska Construction UK Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Skanska AB, in the summer.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2013
