Notice of the Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventeenth Annual General Meeting AGM of Xaar plc the Company will be held at 316 Science Park, Cambridge CB4 0XR on 14 May 2014 at 9.30am for the following purposes: Ordinary business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
To receive the Companys annual financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2013.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which financial statements are laid.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
To declare a final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2013 of 5.5p per ordinary share.
To re-elect Richard Barham as a Director.
To re-elect Alex Bevis as a Director.
To re-elect Edmund Creutzmann as a Director.
To re-elect David Cheesman as a Director.
To re-elect Phil Lawler as a Director.
To re-elect Ted Wiggans as a Director.
To re-elect Robin Williams as a Director.
To re-elect Ian Dinwoodie as a Director.
To approve the Directors remuneration report excluding the Directors remuneration policy set out on pages 58 to 64 of the annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
To approve the Directors remuneration policy, the full text of which is contained in the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2013, as set out on pages 58 to 64 of the annual report, which will take effect immediately after the end of the AGM on 14 May 2014.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions which will be proposed in the case of Resolutions 15 and 17 as Special Resolutions and in the case of Resolution 16 as an Ordinary Resolution: 15.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 10p in the capital of the Company ordinary shares provided that: the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 11,308,329 representing 14.9% of the issued ordinary share capital : the minimum price excluding expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is the par value of the shares: the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased, and ii the amount stipulated by article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation 2003: this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company, or, if earlier, at the close of business on 14 August 2015 unless renewed before that time: and the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of the authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of the authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
That, in substitution for all existing authorities including the authority conferred on the Directors by Article 4 B of the Companys Articles of Association, in accordance with section 551 of the Act the Directors be and they are generally and unconditionally authorised to exercise all powers of the Company to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Act, or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company: a up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,073,117.73 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities allotted pursuant to the authority in Resolution 16 b in connection with a rights issue as defined in the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Conduct Authority pursuant to Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, to holders of equity securities, in proportion to their respective entitlements to such equity securities, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems in or under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and 114 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Special business continued b otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,536,558.87 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities allotted pursuant to the authority in Resolution 16 a, provided that this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the Companys AGM in 2015, or, if earlier, at the close of business on 14 August 2015, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot such equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
Subject to the passing of Resolution 16 of the notice of meeting, that, in substitution for all existing authorities, including the authority conferred on the Directors by Article 4 C of the Companys Articles of Association: a the Directors be and they are empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Act to allot equity securities pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 16 a as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this authority shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue as defined in the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Conduct Authority pursuant to Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal or practical problems in or under the laws of any territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange: and b the Directors be and they are empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Act to allot equity securities for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 16 b as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this authority shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities otherwise than in connection with any rights issue as defined in the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Conduct Authority pursuant to Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 having an aggregate nominal value of up to 380,483.83, provided that this authority shall expire on the conclusion of the Companys AGM in 2015, or, if earlier, at the close of business on 14 August 2015, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
By order of the Board Alex Bevis Company Secretary 18 March 2014 Notes 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is also entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a show of hands or on a poll, vote instead of him.
Where more than one proxy is appointed, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the appointing shareholder.
The proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy and any authority under which it is executed or a notarially certified copy of such authority must be deposited at the office of the Companys registrars not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not preclude ordinary shareholders from attending and voting in person.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
In accordance with Regulation 41 of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001, the Company specifies that only those members entered on the register of members of the Company as at 9.30am on 12 May 2014 or in the event the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register of members after 9.30am on 12 May 2014 or in the event the meeting is adjourned, on the register of members less than 48 hours before the time of any adjourned meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
com 115 Notice of the Annual General Meeting continued 6.
Copies of Directors service agreements, the terms of appointment of Non-Executive Directors, the register of Directors interests kept by the Company under section 808 of the Companies Act 2006, the Xaar plc 2004 Share Option Plan, the Xaar plc 2007 Share Save Plan and the Xaar plc 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan will be available 15 minutes prior to the commencement of the meeting and will remain open and accessible during the continuance of the meeting to any person attending the meeting.
Biographical details of all Directors offering themselves for reappointment are set out on pages 30 and 31 of the annual report and accounts.
Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
In order to facilitate voting by corporate representatives at the meeting, arrangements will be put in place at the meeting so that: i if a corporate shareholder has appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative to vote on a poll in accordance with the directions of all of the other corporate representatives for that shareholder at the meeting, then on a poll those corporate representatives will give voting directions to the chairman and the chairman will vote or withhold a vote as corporate representative in accordance with those directions: and ii if more than one corporate representative for the same corporate shareholder attends the meeting but the corporate shareholder has not appointed the chairman of the meeting as its corporate representative, a designated corporate representative will be nominated, from those corporate representatives who attend, who will vote on a poll and the other corporate representatives will give voting directions to that designated corporate representative.
Corporate shareholders are referred to in the guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators on proxies and corporate representatives www.
uk for further details of this procedure.
The guidance includes a sample form of appointment letter if the chairman is being appointed as described in i above.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 9.30am on 12 May 2014.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Personal Member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
As at 7.00am on 18 March 2014 the date of publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital comprised 76,096,766 Ordinary shares of 10p each.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company, except for the shares held in trust for the Xaar Share Incentive Plan totalling 52,894 shares and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as 7.00am on 18 March 2014 is 76,043,872.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
A copy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
116 Xaar plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Advisors Registered office Broker Solicitors 316 Science Park N 1 Singer Mills & Reeve LLP Cambridge CB4 0XR One Bartholomew Lane Botanic House London EC2N 2AX 100 Hills Road Registered number Cambridge CB2 1PH 3320972 Registered auditor Bankers Deloitte LLP Company Secretary City House Barclays Bank plc Alex Bevis 126130 Hills Road 911 St Andrews Street Cambridge CB2 1RY Cambridge CB2 3AA Registrars Capita Asset Services The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Designed by luminous.
co. uk Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Hello Gloss, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
Pulp is bleached using mainly a Totally Chlorine Free TCF process, but some is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
Xaar plc 316 Science Park Cambridge CB4 0XR Telephone 44 0 1223 423663 Facsimile 44 0 1223 423590 info@xaar.
