INVESTOR RESOURCES Glossary AGM Annual General Meeting.
JLTV Joint Light Tactical Vehicle.
ATTAC Availability Transformation Tornado Aircraft KPI Key Performance Indicator.
DEWS Digital Electronic Warfare System.
EADS European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company.
EBITA Earnings before amortisation and impairment M777 A lightweight 155mm field howitzer.
of intangible assets, finance costs and M&A Mergers and Acquisitions.
ESOP Employee Share Option Plan.
ExSOP Executive Share Option Plan.
FADEC Full Authority Digital Engine Controls.
FIRST Foundation for Inspiration and Recognition of RPI Retail Prices Index.
RSAF Royal Saudi Air Force.
RSNF Royal Saudi Naval Forces.
SBDCP Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme.
SHE Safety, Health and Environment.
GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
GAO US Government Accountability Office.
ToBA Terms of Business Agreement.
IEMA Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment.
TRMC Treasury Review Management Committee.
IFBEC International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard.
ISR Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance.
UITF Urgent Issues Task Force.
JETS Joint Effects Targeting System.
WARN Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification.
196 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepoRt 2013 WORD Background.
indd 196 3 7 2014 1:59:27 PM BAE SySTEmS ONLiNE GET ThE LATEST iNvESTOR At BAE Systems, we serve the needs of our iNFORmATiON ONLiNE: customers by delivering a wide range of advanced www.
cOm defence, aerospace and security solutions that For the latest information on: Innovation Performance provide a performance edge.
With some 84,600 Investor presentations 1 Corporate responsibility employees in six continents, we work together News and events Company videos withlocal partners to develop, engineer, manufacture Plus, features enabling you to: View on your laptop, tablet or phone Stay connected with Twitter, Flickr, YouTube and Facebook and support the innovations that increase defence Sign up for RSS feeds Sign up for e-mail alerts Contact us sovereignty, sustain economies and safeguard commercial interests.
Printed by Park Communications on FSCcertified paper.
1 Including share of equity accounted investments.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System iscertified to ISO 14001.
Cautionary statement: All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this document, including, without limitation, those regarding 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are the financial condition, results, operations and businesses of BAE Systems and its strategy, plans and objectives and the markets and economies in recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this which it operates, are forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements which reflect managements assumptions made on the basis of production will be recycled.
information available to it at this time, involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors which could cause the actual results, performance or achievements of BAE Systems or the markets and economies in which BAE Systems operates to be materially different from The papers are the combination of 100% virgin fibre and 50% recycled fibre future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
BAE Systems plc and its directors accept no sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSCcertified forests.
The pulp for liability to third parties in respect of this report save as would arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated each is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with schedule 10A of the Financial Services and Front cover image of Type 45 Crown copyright.
It should be noted that schedule 10A and section 463 Companies Act 2006 contain limits on the liability of the directors of BAESystems plc so that their liability is solely to BAE Systems plc.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FOR mORE iNFORmATiON BAESySTEmS.
cOm ANNUAL REPORT 2013 BAE Systems plc 6 Carlton Gardens London SW1Y 5AD United Kingdom Telephone: 44 0 1252 373232 www.
com Registered in England and Wales No.
All rights reserved BAE SYSTEMS is a registered trade mark of BAE Systems plc.
