FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Page Group accounts Note Page Company accounts 126 Preparation 182 Company balance sheet 128 Consolidated income statement 183 Notes to the Company accounts 129 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 130 Segmental analysis 1 189 Independent auditors report to the 133 Operating costs 2 members of BAE Systems plc 134 Employees 3 134 Other income 4 192 Five-year summary 135 Finance costs 5 136 Taxation expense 6 139 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations 7 140 Earnings per share 8 141 Consolidated cash flow statement 142 Cash flow analysis 9 143 Net debt cash as defined by the Group 10 144 Consolidated balance sheet 145 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 146 Intangible assets 11 149 Property, plant and equipment 12 152 Investment property 13 153 Equity accounted investments 14 154 Trade and other receivables 15 155 Other financial assets and liabilities 16 156 Deferred tax 17 159 Inventories 18 159 Cash and cash equivalents 19 159 Geographical analysis of assets 20 160 Loans and overdrafts 21 161 Trade and other payables 22 162 Retirement benefit obligations 23 170 Provisions 24 171 Share capital and other reserves 25 Other information 173 Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries 26 174 Fair value measurement 27 175 Financial risk management 28 177 Share-based payments 29 179 Related party transactions 30 180 Contingent liabilities and commitments 31 Accounting policies 181 Group entities 32 Within the Group accounts, the accounting policies are included 181 Events after the balance sheet date 33 within the relevant note.
BAE SySTEMS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 125 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group accounts Preparation Preparation continued The consolidated financial statements of BAE Systems plc have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the Directors These changes have been applied retrospectively to the comparative financial information for 2012 and have had the following impact Report on page 70, and in accordance with EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the Companies Act 2006 on the financial statements compared with the previous version of IAS 19: 2013 2012 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
m m The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling and, unless stated otherwise, rounded to the nearest million.
Operating costs 34 39 They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and Share of results of equity accounted investments 2 2 other relevant financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments.
Operating profit 36 41 Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and Finance costs 166 132 liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
These exchange Profit before taxation 202 173 differences are recognised in the income statement.
Taxation expense 61 53 Principal accounting policies Net decrease in profit for the year 141 120 The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out in the relevant notes.
Remeasurements on defined benefit pension schemes 203 174 These policies have been applied consistently to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Tax on items that will not be reclassified to the income statement 62 54 Certain of the Groups principal accounting policies are considered by the directors to be critical because of the level of complexity, Total comprehensive income for the year judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The directors believe that the consolidated financial statements reflect appropriate judgements and estimates, and provide a true and fair view of the Groups Earnings per share financial performance and position.
The critical accounting policies are listed below and explained in more detail in the relevant notes to Basic earnings per share 4.4 p 3.7 p the Group accounts.
Diluted earnings per share 4.3 p 3.7 p Critical accounting policy Description Notes 1 Underlying earnings per share Revenue and profit recognition 1 1 Underlying earnings per share 0.2 p 0.4 p The recognition of revenue and profit on The majority of long-term contracts are accounted for under IAS 11, Construction long-term contracts.
Revenue on long-term contracts is recognised when performance 1 The reduction in underlying earnings per share mainly reflects the reclassification of certain costs associated with the administration of milestones have been completed.
1 2 the Groups pension schemes from finance movements on pensions, which are excluded from underlying earnings, to underlying EBITA.
The ultimate profitability of long-term contracts is estimated based on estimates of In addition, during 2013, longevity swap arrangements were entered into by the trustees of certain UK schemes see page 163.
Under revenue and costs, including allowances for technical and other risks, which are the revised IAS 19, these swaps are required to be valued in accordance with IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement.
The valuation under the reliant on the knowledge and experience of the Groups project managers, previous version of IAS 19 would have reduced total comprehensive income for the year by 177m.
engineers, and finance and commercial professionals.
Material changes in these 1 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring estimates could affect the profitability of individual contracts.
2 Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items.
Revenue and cost estimates are reviewed and updated at least quarterly, and more IFRS 13 aims to improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair frequently as determined by events or circumstances.
value measurement disclosure requirements for use across other standards within IFRSs.
IFRS 13 does not extend the use of fair Profit is recognised progressively as risks have been mitigated or retired.
value accounting and has not impacted the fair value measurements carried out by the Group other than in relation to longevity swaps as above.
IFRS 13 requires specific disclosures on fair values, which are provided in the relevant notes to the Group accounts.
Valuation of retirement benefit obligations 23 The determination of assumptions Pension scheme accounting valuations are prepared by independent actuaries.
For A number of new EU-endorsed standards and amendments to existing standards, which are listed below, are effective for periods underpinning the valuation of retirement each of the actuarial assumptions used to measure the Groups pension scheme beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
With the benefit obligations for defined benefit liabilities, there is a range of possible values and management exercises judgement exception of new disclosure requirements, none of these are expected to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements of pension schemes: and in deciding the point within that range that most appropriately reflects the Groups the Group and as such they have not been early adopted.
Small changes in these assumptions can have a significant impact Effective for periods the determination of the share of the New standards and amendments to existing standards beginning on or after on the size of the deficit.
pension deficit allocated to the Groups IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 equity accounted investments and other The Group has allocated a share of the pension deficit to its equity accounted IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 participating employers.
investments and other participating employers using a consistent allocation method intended to reflect a reasonable approximation of their share of the deficit.
IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements revised 2011 1 January 2014 Carrying value of intangible assets 11 IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures revised 2011 1 January 2014 The valuation of acquired intangible Acquired intangible assets, excluding goodwill, are valued in line with internationally assets: and used models, which require the use of estimates that may differ from actual There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effective that are expected to have a material impact on the Group.
These assets are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Future the determination of assumptions results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and, potentially, any Consolidation underpinning goodwill impairment differences between estimated and actual circumstances related to individual The financial statements of the Group consolidate the results of the Company and its subsidiary entities, and include its share of its testing.
joint ventures results accounted for under the equity method, all of which are prepared to 31 December.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group.
Control is the power to govern the operating and financial policies of an entity so as to less accumulated impairment losses.
The impairment review calculations require the obtain benefits from its activities.
use of estimates related to the future profitability and cash-generating ability of the The results of subsidiaries are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
acquired businesses and the pre-tax discount rate used in discounting these Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in projected cash flows.
preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Changes in accounting policies Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method where the consolidated income statement includes the Groups share of their With effect from 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted the following amendment to an existing standard and new standard: profits and losses, and the consolidated balance sheet includes its share of their net assets within equity accounted investments.
International Accounting Standard IAS 19 revised 2011, Employee Benefits, replaces interest cost on gross pension liabilities and The assets and liabilities of overseas subsidiaries and equity accounted investments are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the expected return on gross pension assets with a finance cost on the net pension deficit calculated using the rate currently used to balance sheet date.
The income statements of such entities are translated at average rates of exchange during the year.
All resulting discount defined benefit pension liabilities.
The discount rate is lower than the expected return on plan assets, increasing finance exchange differences are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
costs recognised in the income statement and correspondingly reducing remeasurements recognised in other comprehensive income.
Translation differences that arose before the transition date to IFRS 1 January 2004 are presented in equity, but not as a separate In addition, certain costs associated with the administration of the Groups pension schemes are now reported within operating costs component.
When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative exchange differences recognised in equity since 1 January 2004 are rather than finance costs.
The net pension deficit is not affected by these changes.
recognised in the income statement as part of the profit or loss on sale.
126 BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepoRt 2013 WORD Background.
indd 126 3 7 2014 1:59:15 PM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group accounts Preparation Preparation continued The consolidated financial statements of BAE Systems plc have been prepared on a going concern basis as discussed in the Directors These changes have been applied retrospectively to the comparative financial information for 2012 and have had the following impact Report on page 70, and in accordance with EU-endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the Companies Act 2006 on the financial statements compared with the previous version of IAS 19: 2013 2012 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
pension deficit allocated to the Groups IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 equity accounted investments and other The Group has allocated a share of the pension deficit to its equity accounted IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 investments and other participating employers using a consistent allocation method participating employers.
intended to reflect a reasonable approximation of their share of the deficit.
BAE SyStEmS AnnuAl RepoRt 2013 127 WORD Background.
