159 SHarEHOldEr INfOrMaTION Financial calendar unsolicited telephone calls 2014 In the past, some of our shareholders 23 April Ex-dividend date for final 2013 ordinary dividend have received unsolicited telephone calls 25 April Final 2013 ordinary dividend record date or correspondence concerning investment 15 May Annual General Meeting matters from organisations or persons 21 May Ex-dividend date for July 2014 preference dividend claiming or implying that they have some 23 May July 2014 preference dividend record date connection with the Company.
"These are 4 June Final date for receipt of DRIP mandate forms see below typically from overseas based ""brokers"" 1 July Preference dividend payable who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be 4 July Final 2013 ordinary dividend payable worthless or high-risk shares in UK or 14 August Announcement of 2014 half-year results overseas investments."
Shareholders are 5 December Interim 2014 ordinary dividend payable advised to be very wary of any unsolicited Provisional dates.
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports on the Company.
Registrars International payment service If you receive any unsolicited All administrative enquiries relating to Shareholders outside the UK may elect investment advice: shareholdings and requests to receive to receive dividends direct into their always ensure the firm is on the corporate documents by email should, overseas bank account, or by currency Financial Conduct Authority FCA inthe first instance, be directed to the draft, instead of by sterling cheque.
Register and is allowed to give financial Companys Registrars and clearly state For further information, contact the advice before handing over your money.
your registered address and, if available, Companys Registrars on 44 20 8639 You can check via http: www.
3405 from outside the UK or 0871 664 uk register home.
do Please write to: 0385 from the UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras.
Lines double-check the caller is from the firm Capita Asset Services, The Registry, are open Monday to Friday 9.00 am to they say they are ask for their name 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent 5.30 pm, UK time.
Alternatively, you can and telephone number and say you BR3 4TU, Telephone: 0871 664 0300 log on to www.
Check their identity from the UK calls cost 10p per minute and click on the link for International by calling the firm using the contact plus network extras and 44 20 8639 Payment Service.
number listed on the FCA Register.
3399 from outside the UK Monday to If there are no contact details on the Friday 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, UK time.
shareholder information on the FCA Register or you are told that they Alternatively, you can email: shareholder.
internet and electronic are out of date, or if you have any services@capita.
communications other doubts, call the FCA Consumer Our website www.
com They can help you to: check your Helpline on 0800 111 6768 provides a range of information about shareholding: register a change of address check the FCAs list of known the Company, our people and businesses or name: obtain a replacement dividend unauthorised overseas firms at and our policies on corporate governance cheque or tax voucher: record the death http: www.
However, these and corporate responsibility.
It should be of a shareholder.
firms change names regularly, so even regarded as your first point of reference if a firm is not listed, it does not mean Dividends and dividend for information on any of these matters.
Always check that reinvestment plan The share price can also be found there.
they are listed on the FCA Register Dividends may be paid directly into your You can create a Share Portal account, bank or building society account through if you are approached about a share through which you will be able to access the Bankers Automated Clearing System scam, you should inform the FCA the full range of online shareholder BACS.
The Registrars can provide using the share fraud reporting form services, including the ability to: view a dividend mandate form.
uk consumers your holdings and indicative share price reinvestment plan DRIP is offered scams investment-scams share-fraudand valuation: view movements on your which allows holders of ordinary shares  reporting-form, holdings and your dividend payment to reinvest their cash dividends in the where you can also find out about the history: register a dividend mandate Companys shares through a specially latest investment scams or alternatively, to have your dividends paid directly arranged share dealing service.
Full details you can call the FCA Consumer Helpline into your bank account: change your of the DRIP and its charges, together see above.
If you use an unauthorised registered address: sign up to receive with mandate forms, are available at firm to buy or sell shares or other e-communications or access the online www.
investments, you will not have access proxy voting facility: download and print to the Financial Ombudsman Service shareholder forms.
orbe eligible to receive payment under The Share Portal is easy to use.
Please the Financial Services Compensation visit www.
Scheme if things go wrong Alternatively, you can email: shareportal@capita.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 160 you should also report any approach Capital gains tax CGt to Action Fraud, who are the UKs For CGT purposes the market value on national fraud reporting centre at 31March 1982 of Balfour Beatty plcs www.
uk, or by ordinary shares of 50p each was 267.6p calling 0300 123 2040. per share.
This has been adjusted for the 1 for 5 rights issue in June 1992, the 2 Gifting shares to your family for 11 rights issue in September 1996 and or to charity the 3 for 7 rights issue in October 2009 To transfer shares to another member and assumes that all rights have been of your family as a gift, please ask the taken up.
Registrars for a Balfour Beatty gift transfer Consolidated tax vouchers form.
Alternatively, if you only have a Balfour Beatty issues a consolidated tax small number of shares whose value voucher annually to all shareholders who makes it uneconomic to sell them, you have their dividends paid direct to their may wish to consider donating them bank accounts.
If you would prefer to to the share donation charity ShareGift receive a tax voucher at each dividend registered charity no.
1052686, payment date rather than annually, whose work Balfour Beatty supports.
A copy The relevant share transfer form may be of the consolidated tax voucher may obtained from the Registrars.
For more be downloaded from the Share Portal information visit www.
share dealing services Capita Share Dealing Services a trading enquiries name of Capita IRG Trustees Limited Enquiries relating to Balfour Beattys provide a telephone and online share results, business and financial position dealing service for UK and EEA resident should be made in writing to the shareholders.
To use this service, Corporate Communications Department telephone: 0871 664 0364 from the UK at the address shown below or by email calls cost 10p per minute plus network to info@balfourbeatty.
extras and 44 20 3367 2686 from Balfour Beatty plc Registered Office: outside the UK Monday to Friday 8.00 am 130Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ to 4.30 pm, UK time.
Alternatively, you Registered in England Number 395826 can log on to www.
Capita IRG Trustees Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and is also authorised to conduct cross-border business within the EEA under the provisions of the EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.
London stock exchange Codes The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL codes are: Ordinary shares: 0096162.
The London Stock Exchange ticker codes are: Ordinary shares: BBY.
com ar2013 Forward-looking statements No representation or warranty is made Follow us on: This document may include certain that any of these statements or forecasts forward-looking statements, beliefs or will come to pass or that any forecast opinions, including statements with results will be achieved.
Forward-looking Twitter respect to Balfour Beatty plcs business, statements speak only as at the date of @balfourbeatty financial condition and results of this document and Balfour Beatty plc operations.
These forward-looking and its advisers expressly disclaim any statements can be identified by the use obligations or undertaking to release offorward-looking terminology, including anyupdate of, or revisions to, any LinkedIn the terms believes, estimates, plans, forward-looking statements in this linkedin.
com company balfour-beatty-plc anticipates, targets, aims, continues, document.
No statement in thedocument expects, intends, hopes, may, will, is intended to be, or intended to be would, could orshould or in each construed as, a profit forecast orto be Facebook case, their negative or other various interpreted to mean that earnings per facebook.
These Balfour Beatty plc share for the current statements are made by the Balfour or future financial years will necessarily Beatty plc Directors in good faith based match or exceed the historical earnings on the information available to them at the per Balfour Beatty plc share.
As a YouTube date of this report and reflect the Balfour result, you are cautioned not to place youtube.
com BalfourBeattyPlc Beatty plc Directors beliefs and any undue reliance on such forwardexpectations.
By their nature these looking statements.
statements involve risk and uncertainty Google because they relate to events and depend plus.
com BalfourBeattyBBplc on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
A number of factors could cause actual results and developments todiffer materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, developments in the global economy, changes in UK and US government policies, spending and procurement methodologies, failure in Balfour Beattys health, safety or environmental policies and those factors set out under Principal Risks on pages 20 to 23 of this document.
Designed and produced by C O N R A N D E S IG N G R O U P Printed in England by Pureprint The paper used in the report contains 100% recycled content, ofwhich 100% is fide-inked post-consumer waste.
All of the pulp isbleached usingan elemental chlorine free process ECF.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint using its and environmental printing technology, with vegetable inks usedthroughout.
Boththe manufacturing mill and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are ForestStewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
com Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc
