Directors responsibilities STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Governance section, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Accounts, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared Group: and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance the Directors report contained includes a fair review of the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as development and performance of the business and the position adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied and uncertainties that it faces.
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that having taken all matters considered by the Board and brought period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are to the attention of the Board during the year into account, the required to: Directors consider that the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable.
The Directors a select suitable accounting policies and then apply them believe that the disclosures set out in of the Annual Report & consistently: Accounts provide the information necessary for shareholders to b make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
and prudent: c state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Signed on behalf of the Board on 25 February 2014.
Union EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and d prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Ian Hawksworth Soumen Das continue in business.
Chief Executive Finance Director The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
