Glossary AB and ABC1 EPRA adjusted earnings per share Demographic classifications in the UK used to describe the Profit for the year excluding gains or losses on the revaluation professional classes determined by income, earning levels, and sale of investment and development property, write down social grade and lifestyle.
of trading property, changes in fair value of derivative financial instruments and associated close-out costs and the related taxation Capco on these items divided by the weighted average number of shares in Capco represents Capital & Counties Properties PLC also issue during the year.
referred to as the Company and all its subsidiaries and group undertakings, collectively referred to as the Group.
Estimated rental value ERV The external valuers estimate of the Groups share of the open CLSA market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably Conditional Land Sale Agreement, an agreement with LBHF be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of relating to its land in the ECOA.
Diluted figures GCP Reported amounts adjusted to include the dilutive effects of The Great Capital Partnership, a 50:50 joint venture potential shares issuable under employee incentive arrangements.
with Great Portland Estates plc.
In 2013 this represents a discontinued operation.
Earls Court The London district made up of a series of residential Gross income neighbourhoods crossing the boundaries of LBHF and RBKC.
The Groups share of passing rent plus sundry non-leased income.
EC1 & EC2 Interest rate swap IRS Capcos leasehold interests in the Earls Court 1 and Earls Court 2 A derivative financial instrument enabling parties to exchange exhibition centres TfL together with Network Rail hold the interest rate obligations for a predetermined period.
These are freehold interests and Capcos freehold interest in the Northern used by the Group to convert floating rate debt to fixed rates.
Access Road which runs from the exhibition centre northwards to Fenelon Place.
The proposed joint venture with TfL Capco share Initial yield EPRA would be 63 per cent relates to these interests.
Annualised net rent after deduction of revenue costs such as head rent, running void, service charge after shortfalls and empty rates ECOA on investment and development property expressed as a percentage The Earls Court and West Kensington Opportunity Area.
of the gross market value before deduction of theoretical acquisition costs, consistent with EPRAs net initial yield.
Earls Court Properties The Groups interests in the Earls Court area, comprising EC1 & IPD EC2, Lillie Square a 50:50 joint venture partnership with the Kwok Investment Property Databank Ltd, producer of an independent Family Interests, the Empress State Building Capco ownership benchmark of property returns.
100 per cent and a number of smaller properties in the Earls Court area.
Kwok Family Interests KFI Joint venture partner in the Lillie Square development.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
LBHF The London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham.
EPRA European Public Real Estate Association, the publisher of Best LIBOR Practice Recommendations intended to make financial statements London Interbank Offer Rate.
of public real estate companies in Europe clearer, more transparent Like-for-like property and comparable.
Property which has been owned throughout both years without EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV significant capital expenditure in either year, so income can be The net assets as at the end of the year including the excess of the compared on a like-for-like basis.
For the purposes of comparison fair value of trading property over its cost and excluding the fair of capital values, this will also include assets owned at the previous value of financial instruments, deferred taxation on revaluations balance sheet date but not necessarily throughout the prior year.
and diluting for the effect of those shares potentially issuable under Loan-to-value LTV employee share schemes divided by the diluted number of shares at LTV is the ratio of attributable net debt to the book value the year end.
EPRA adjusted, diluted NNNAV NAV EPRA diluted NAV adjusted to reflect the fair value of derivative Net Asset Value.
financial instruments and to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
Net Debt Total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
134 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Net rental income NRI TfL The Groups share of gross rental income less ground rents, payable Transport for London and any subsidiary of Transport for service charge expenses and other non-recoverable charges, having London including Transport Trading Limited and London taken due account of bad debt provisions and adjustments to Underground Limited.
comply with International Financial Reporting Standards Total property return regarding tenant lease incentives.
Capital growth including gains and losses on disposals plus rent Nominal equivalent yield received less associated costs, including ground rent.
Effective annual yield to a purchaser on the gross market value, Total return assuming rent is receivable annually in arrears, and that the The growth in EPRA adjusted, diluted NAV per share plus property becomes fully occupied and that all rents revert to the dividends per share paid during the year.
current market level ERV at the next review date or lease expiry.
Total shareholder return Occupancy rate EPRA The increase in the price of an ordinary share plus dividends paid The ERV of let and under offer units expressed as a percentage of during the year assuming re-investment in ordinary shares.
the ERV of let and under offer units plus ERV of un-let units, excluding units under development.
Underlying earnings Profit for the year excluding impairment charges, net Passing rent valuation gains losses including profits losses on disposals, The Groups share of contracted annual rents receivable at net refinancing charges and costs of termination of derivative the balance sheet date.
This takes no account of accounting financial instruments.
adjustments made in respect of rent-free periods or tenant incentives, the reclassification of certain lease payments as Weighted average unexpired lease term finance charges or any irrecoverable costs and expenses, and does The unexpired lease term to lease expiry weighted by ERV for not include excess turnover rent, additional rent in respect of each lease.
unsettled rent reviews or sundry income such as from car parks etc.
Zone A Contracted annual rents in respect of tenants in administration A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space are excluded.
by dividing it in to zones parallel with the main frontage.
The most RBKC valuable zone, Zone A, falls within a 6m depth of the shop frontage.
The Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea.
Each successive zone is valued at half the rate of the zone in front of it.
The blend is referred to as being ITZA In Terms of Zone A. REIT Real Estate Investment Trust.
SARB South African Reserve Bank.
Section 34A Housing Act 1985 An amendment to the 1985 Act enabling an organised group of tenants to require a local authority to transfer their homes to a private registered provider of social housing, where a transfer proves to be the favoured and viable option.
The Housing Right to Transfer from a Local Authority Landlord England Regulations 2013 which brought Section 34A into effect came into force on 5 December 2013.
Section 106 Section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, pursuant to which the relevant planning authority can impose planning obligations on a developer to secure contributions to services, infrastructure and amenities in order to support and facilitate a proposed development.
Tenant or lease incentives Any incentives offered to tenants to enter into a lease.
Typically incentives are in the form of an initial rent-free period and or a cash contribution to fit-out the premises.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards the value of incentives granted to tenants is amortised through the income statement on a straightline basis over the lease term.
com 135 Shareholder information Registrars Share dealing services All enquiries concerning shares or shareholdings, including The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building notification of change of address, queries regarding loss of a share societies and stockbrokers.
Additionally, UK shareholders may certificate and dividend payments should be addressed to: trade their shares using the online and telephone dealing service that Capita Asset Services provide.
To use this service, shareholders For shareholders registered in the UK: should contact Capita: within the UK 0871 664 0364 calls cost 10p Capita Asset Services per minute plus network extras: lines are open 8.00 am 4.30 pm The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent, BR3 4TU Monday to Friday : from Ireland: 1 890 946 375: or from outside Telephone: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network UK: 44 20 3367 2686 or you can log on to www.
extras: lines are open 9.00 am 5.30 pm Monday Friday Telephone outside UK: 44 0 208 639 3399 Electronic communication Email: ssd@capita.
co. uk Capco has adopted electronic communications.
com shareholders will receive documents from the Company electronically unless they elect to receive hard copies.
For shareholders registered in South Africa: All of the Groups annual results, interim results and interim Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd management statements will be published on the Companys 70 Marshall Street, Johannesburg 2001 website www.
If you are a shareholder South Africa who receives hard copies of documents and you wish to elect Postal address: to receive electronic communications, please contact the PO Box 61051 appropriate registrar.
Marshalltown 2107, South Africa Telephone: 27 86 110 0933 Shareholders may revoke an election to receive electronic www.
com communications at any time.
Payment of dividends ShareGift If you are a shareholder and wish to have your dividends paid ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders directly into a bank or building society, please complete a who may wish to dispose of a small quantity of shares where the mandate form which is available from the appropriate registrar.
market value makes it uneconomical to sell on a commission basis.
Further information can be found on its website www.
org Share price information or by calling them on 020 7930 3737.
The latest information on the Capital & Counties Properties PLC share price is available on the Companys website Strate Charity Shares SCS www.
SCS is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders who may wish to dispose of small holdings of shares that are too costly to The shares are traded on the LSE with LSE code CAPC, ISIN sell via a stock broker on a commission basis.
The shares are traded on the JSE under the can be found at http: www.
co. za, by emailing abbreviated name CAPCO and JSE code CCO.
co. za or by calling 0800 202 363 or Web-based enquiry service for shareholders 27 11 870 8207 if you are phoning outside South Africa.
Shareholders registered in the UK can register at Investment scams www.
com to access a range of online Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited calls, mail or services including: email that offer free advice, the opportunity to buy shares at a Online proxy voting discount or to provide free company reports.
Such approaches are often investment scams.
Information on how to protect yourself Electing to receive shareholder communications electronically from investment scams can be found at www.
Viewing your holding balance, indicative share price and valuation Viewing transactions on your holding including any dividend payments you have received Updating your address details or registering a mandate to have your dividends paid directly to your bank account Accessing a wide range of shareholder information, including downloadable forms To register to use this service, you will need your investor code IVC, which can be found on your share certificate s. 136 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
This Report includes statements that are forward-looking Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental in nature.
Forward-looking statements involve known and Management System is certified to ISO14001.
100% of the inks unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for the actual results, performance or achievements of Capital & further use and, on average 99% ofanywaste associated with this Counties Properties PLC to be materially different from any production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Heaven 42 future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied and Munken Polar: both papers contain 100% virgin fibre sourced by such forward-looking statements.
Any information contained from well-managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
The pulp in this Report on the price at which shares or other securities in is bleached using both elemental chlorine free ECF and totally Capital & Counties PropertiesPLC have been bought or sold in chlorine free TCF processes.
the past, or on the yield on such shares or other securities, should Design and production by Black Sun Plc www.
com not be relied upon asaguideto future performance.
Capital & Counties Properties PLC 15 Grosvenor Street, London W1K 4QZ Telephone 44 0 20 3214 9150 feedback@capitalandcounties.
