68 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements reflect the share capital of the Company from c New standards, amendments 1.
The difference between the Countrywide plc the Company and its share capital of the Company and the share Standards, amendments and subsidiaries together, the Group is the capital, share premium and capital redemption interpretations effective and leading integrated, full service residential reserve of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd at adopted by the Group estate agency and property services group 1 9March 2013 is recognised in the capital The following standards have been adopted inthe UK, measured by both revenue and reorganisation reserve.
The results include: by the Group for the first time for the financial transaction volumes in 2013.
It offers estate year beginning on or after 1 January 2013 agency and lettings services, together with the consolidated income statement includes Y but none have had a material impact on arange of complementary services, and has the results of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd theGroup: asignificant presence in key areas and and its subsidiaries for the year ended property types which are promoted through 31December 2013: Amendment to IAS 1 Financial statement Y locally respected brands.
presentation regarding other comprehensive the comparative figures in the Y income.
The main change resulting from consolidated income statement are the The Company is a public limited company, these amendments has been to group results of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd which is listed on the London Stock Exchange items presented in other comprehensive andits subsidiaries for the year ended and incorporated and domiciled in the UK income OCI on the basis of whether they 31December 2012: and registered number: 08340090.
The address are potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss of its registered office is 17 Duke Street, the consolidated retained earnings Y subsequently reclassification adjustments.
reserve of the Group includes the retained IAS 19 Employee benefits was revised earnings of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd Y 2.
The changes to the Groups and its subsidiaries for the period before accounting policies have been as follows: and after 19 March 2013.
The principal accounting policies applied in to immediately recognise all past service the preparation of these consolidated financial Prior year restatement costs: and to replace interest cost and statements are set out below.
These policies Revenue generated in Surveying Services from expected return on plan assets with a have been consistently applied to the years panel management contracts was previously netinterest amount that is calculated presented, unless otherwise stated.
reported inclusive of the fees received by the byapplying the discount rate to the net a Basis of preparation Group on behalf of panel valuers.
The consolidated financial statements have cost was included in other operating expenses.
Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Y been prepared under the historical cost A review of these contracts concluded that the instruments: Disclosures on asset liability convention, as modified by the revaluation division was acting as an agent and therefore and offsetting includes new disclosures ofavailable-for-sale financial assets and the revenue has been restated net of the fees tofacilitate comparison between entities financial liabilities at fair value through profit paid.
Therewas no impact on net assets, profits preparing financial statements under IFRS orloss, and in accordance with International orreserves of the Group as a result of this to those that prepare in accordance with Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and change.
For the year ended 31December 2012, US GAAP.
IFRSInterpretations Committee IFRS IC the impact of this restatement was to reduce IFRS 13 Fair value measurement, aims to asadopted by the European Union and Y revenue by 15.1million and reduce other improve consistency and reduce complexity theCompanies Act 2006 applicable to operating costs by 15.1 million.
by providing a precise definition of fair companies reporting under IFRS.
In addition, following the restructuring of internal value and asingle source of fair value The preparation of the consolidated financial reporting during the year, a change in segmental measurement and has resulted in information in conformity with IFRS requires reporting has been undertaken see note 4. additional disclosure requirements the use of certain critical accounting estimates There was no impact on net assets, profits or seenote 33. and requires management to exercise reserves of the Group as a result of this change, judgement in the process of applying the New standards and only their allocation between segments in  Groups accounting policies.
involving a higher degree of judgement or A number of new standards and interpretations There was no material impact on the Group complexity, or areas where assumptions and are effective for annual periods beginning on financial statements arising from the adoption of estimates are significant to the consolidated or after 1 January 2014 and have not yet revised IAS 19 Employee benefits during the financial statements, are disclosed in note 3. been applied in preparing these financial year.
Accordingly, there has been no restatement statements.
None of these new standards Capital reorganisation during 2013 to prior year financial statements and no orinterpretations are expected to have a Countrywide Newco Limited was incorporated requirement for additional associated disclosures.
material impact on the financial statements on 21 December 2012 and was subsequently ofthe Group.
b Going concern re-registered as a public company on These financial statements have been prepared IAS 28 revised 2011 Investments in 19March 2013 with the name Y ona going concern basis, which assumes that associates and joint ventures effective Countrywideplc.
the Group will be able to meet its liabilities 1January 2014 includes the requirements With effect from 19 March 2013, the Company when they fall due for the foreseeable future.
for joint ventures, as well as associates, to became the legal parent of Countrywide The Board of directors has reviewed cash flow be equity accounted following the issue of Holdings, Ltd and its subsidiary undertakings forecasts, which have been stress tested with IFRS 11.
The Group has historically applied through an exchange of equity interests see various assumptions regarding future housing the equity method to account for its joint note 25.
This has been accounted for as a market volumes, and concluded that it is venture interests.
capital reorganisation, reflecting the substance appropriate to prepare the financial statements of the transaction.
Hence the consolidated on a goingconcern basis.
financial statements continue to be prepared on the same basis as previously.
However, the capital reserves on the Group balance sheet 69 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 The Group recognises any non-controlling Transactions and balances 2.
Accounting policies continued interest in the acquiree on an  currency transactions are translated c New standards, amendments acquisition basis, either at fair value or at the into the functional currency using the exchange and interpretations continued non-controlling interests proportionate share rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
New standards and interpretations of the recognised amounts of acquirees Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting notyetadopted continued identifiable net assets.
If the business from the settlement of such transactions and IAS 32 amendment Financial instruments Y combination is achieved in stages, the from the translation at year-end exchange Presentation on asset and liability offsetting acquisition date fair value of the acquirers rates ofmonetary assets and liabilities effective 1 January 2014 clarifies some previously held equity interest in the acquiree denominated in foreign currencies are of the requirements for offsetting financial is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition recognised in the income statement.
assets and financial liabilities on the date through profit or loss.
Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate Goodwill is recorded as the excess of the to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements Y aggregate of the consideration transferred are presented in the income statement within effective 1 January 2014 builds on existing and fair value of non-controlling interest over finance income or costs.
All other foreign principles by identifying the concept of the fair value of the net identifiable assets exchange gains and losses are presented control asthe determining factor in whether acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this inthe income statement within other an entity should be included within the consideration is lower than the fair value incomeor other operating costs.
consolidated financial statements and ofnet assets of the subsidiary acquired, provides additional guidance to assist in Group companies thedifference is recognised in profit or loss.
determining control where this is difficult The results and financial position of all the to assess.
Transactions with non-controlling interests that Group entities none of which has the currency do not result in loss of control are accounted IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other of a hyperinflationary economy that have Y for as equity transactions that is, as transactions entities effective 1 January 2014 covers afunctional currency different from the with the owners in their capacity as owners.
the disclosure requirements for all forms presentation currency are translated into The difference between fair value of any of interests inother entities, including thepresentation currency as follows: consideration paid and the relevant share jointarrangements, associates, special assets and liabilities for each balance sheet acquired of the carrying value of net assets Y purpose vehicles and other off balance presented are translated at the closing ofthe subsidiary is recorded in equity.
rate at the date of that balance sheet: or losses on disposals to non-controlling Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and Y interests are also recordedinequity.
income and expenses for each income Y IFRS 12 effective 1 January 2014 provide statement presented are translated at additional transition relief to IFRSs 10, 11 Joint ventures average exchange rates unless this average and 12, limiting the requirement to provide Under the equity method of accounting, interests is not a reasonable approximation of the adjusted comparative information to only in joint ventures are initially recognised at cost cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the preceding comparative period.
and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups the transaction dates, in which case income share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and Amendments to IAS 36 Impairment Y and expenses aretranslated at the rate on movements in other comprehensive income.
ofassets, on the recoverable amount the dates of the transactions : and When the Groups share of losses in a joint disclosures for non-financial assets all resulting exchange differences are venture equals or exceeds its interests in the Y removes certain disclosures ofthe recognised in other comprehensive income.
joint venture, the Group does not recognise recoverable amount of CGUs which further losses except to the extent that it has hadbeen included in IAS 36 by the Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on incurred obligations or made payments on issueof IFRS 13. the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated behalf of the joint venture.
Accounting policies as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity d Basis of consolidation of the joint venture are aligned where applicable.
and translated at the closing rate.
Exchange Subsidiaries Transactions eliminated on consolidation differences arising are recognised in equity.
Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Intra-group balances, and any gains and losses Group has the power to govern the financial The following exchange rates were applied or income and expenses arising from intra-group and operating policies, generally accompanying for1 Sterling at 31 December: transactions, are eliminated in preparing the ashareholding of more than one half of the 2013 2012 consolidated financial information.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from transactions with jointly controlled entities from the date on which control is transferred Hong Kong Dollars 12.66 12.28 are eliminated to the extent of the Groups totheGroup.
They are deconsolidated from Euros 1.20 1.22 interest in the entity.
Losses are eliminated in the date that control ceases.
Barbadian Dollars 3.31 3.10 the same way as gains, but only to the extent The purchase method of accounting is used that there is no evidence of impairment.
f Property, plant and equipment toaccount for acquisitions and the cost of e Foreign currency translation Owned assets acquisition is measured as the fair value of The functional currency of the Company is Items of property, plant and equipment are assets given, equity instruments issued and Pounds Sterling because that is the currency stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated liabilities incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired of the primary economic environment in depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed which the Group operates.
The Groups includes the original purchase price of the asset in a business combination are measured at their presentation currency is Pounds Sterling.
and the costs attributable to bringing the asset fair value at the acquisition date.
Acquisition to its working condition for its intended use.
costs are written off to the income statement.
When parts ofan item of property, plant and The accounting policies of subsidiaries equipment have different useful lives, those acquired are changed, where necessary, components are accounted for as separate toensure consistency with policies items of property, plant and equipment.
70 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued g Intangible assets Amortisation 2.
Accounting policies continued Goodwill Amortisation is charged to profit or loss on f Property, plant and equipment Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions astraight line basis over the estimated useful continued of subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Goodwill lives of intangible assets unless such lives Owned assets continued represents the excess of the cost of an areindefinite.
The estimated useful lives Subsequent costs are included in the assets acquisition over the fair value of the Groups areas follows: carrying amount or recognised as a separate share of the net identifiable assets of the asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable Computer software five years Y acquiree at the date of acquisition and the that future economic benefits associated with Brand names indefinite life value of the non-controlling interest in the Y the item will flow to the Group and the cost acquiree.
Acquisition costs are written off Assets aretested annually for impairment ofthe item can be measured reliably.
ormore frequently if events or changes in Gains and losses on disposals are circumstances indicate potential impairment.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated determinedby comparing the proceeds impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to Customer contacts and relationships withthe carrying amount and are recognised Y cash generating units and is not amortised five to ten years in the income statement.
butis tested annually for impairment or more Pipeline agreed but un-exchanged house Y Leased assets frequently if events or changes in circumstances sales at date of acquisition three months Leases under which the Group assumes indicate potential impairment.
Other intangibles 25 years substantially all the risks and rewards of Y In respect of joint ventures, the carrying ownership of an asset are classified as amount of goodwill is included in the carrying h Impairment of non-financial assets financeleases.
Property, plant and equipment amount of the investment in the joint venture.
The carrying amounts of the Groups non-current acquired under finance leases is recorded assets are reviewed for impairment annually or atfair value or, if lower, the present value of Excess of acquirers interest in the net whenever events and changes incircumstances minimum lease payments at inception of the fairvalue of acquirees identifiable assets, indicate that the carrying amount may not be lease, less accumulated depreciation and any liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost recoverable.
If any such indication exists, the impairment losses.
arising on an acquisition is recognised in assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Each lease payment is allocated between the In respect of goodwill, intangible assets that liability and finance charges.
The corresponding Other intangible assets have an indefinite useful life and intangible rental obligations, net of finance charges, are Intangible assets other than goodwill that assets that are not yet available for use, the included within borrowings.
The interest element areacquired by the Group, principally recoverable amount is estimated at each of the finance cost is charged to the income acquired brands, customer contracts and balance sheet date.
The recoverable amount statement over the lease period so as to produce relationships, computer software, pipeline is the higher of fair value less costs tosell a constant periodic rate ofinterest on the andother intangibles, are stated at cost less andvalue in use.
remaining balance of the liability for each period.
accumulated amortisation, where charged, The property, plant and equipment under finance andimpairment losses.
Brands are considered Impairment losses represent the amount leases is depreciated over the shorter of the to have indefinite lives.
bywhich the carrying value exceeds the useful lifeof the asset and lease term.
recoverable amount: they are recognised in Acquired computer software is capitalised on profit or loss.
Impairment losses recognised in Depreciation the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and respect of cash generating units are allocated Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on bring to use the specific software.
Internal first to reduce the carrying amount of any astraight line basis over the estimated useful costs that are incurred during the development goodwill allocated tothe cash generating unit lives of each part of an item of property, plantand of significant and separately identifiable computer and then to reduce the carrying amount of equipment.
The property, plant and equipment software for use in the business are capitalised theother assets in the unit on a pro-rata basis.
acquired under finance leases is depreciated where the software is integral to the generation over the shorter of the useful life of the asset of future economic benefits.
Internal costs that An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is and the lease term.
Freehold land is not are capitalised are limited to incremental costs not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an depreciated.
The estimated useful lives specific to the project.
Other development impairment loss is reversed if there has been areasfollows: expenditures that do not meet the criteria for a change inthe estimates used to determine capitalisation are recognised as an expense the recoverable amount.
Freehold buildings 50 years Y as incurred.
Development costs previously An impairment loss is reversed only to the Leasehold improvements overthe Y recognised as an expense are not recognised extent that the assets carrying amount does period of the lease as an asset in a subsequent period.
not exceed the carrying amount that would Furniture and equipment three to five years Y have been determined, net of depreciation Motor vehicles three to five years oramortisation, if no impairment loss had Y been recognised.
The residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
71 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Impairment of financial assets n Options to acquire 2.
Accounting policies continued non-controlling interest Impairment provisions are recognised when i Financial assets Options to acquire non-controlling interests there is objective evidence such as significant Classification inthe future are initially accounted for at fair financial difficulties on the part of the The Group classifies its financial assets as value with a corresponding charge directly counterparty ordefault or significant delay loans and receivables and available-for-sale toequity.
Such options are subsequently inpayment that the Group will be unable to financial assets.
The classification depends measured at fair value, using the effective collect all of the amounts due under the terms onthe purpose forwhich thefinancial assets interest rate method, in order to accrete receivable, the amount of such a provision were acquired.
Management determines theliability up to the amount payable under being the difference between the net carrying theclassification ofits financial assets at the option at the date at which it becomes amount and the present value of the future initialrecognition.
The charge arising is recorded expected cash flows associated with the Loans and receivables asa finance cost and the liability is shown in impaired receivable.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative other financial liabilities.
The risks and rewards For trade receivables, which are reported net financial assets with fixed or determinable of ownership of the non-controlling interests of provisions, such provisions are recorded payments that arise principally through the remain with the sellers and therefore the ina separate provision account with the loss provision of services to customers.
They are non-controlling interest is recognised by the being recognised within other operating costs initially recognised at fair value, and are Group.
The put options are contractual puts in the income statement.
On confirmation that subsequently stated at amortised cost using atthe discretion of the sellers.
the trade receivable will not be collectable, the effective interest method.
They are included o Pensions the gross carrying value of the asset is written in current assets, except for maturities greater The Group operates various post-employment off against the associated provision.
than twelve months after the end of the schemes, including both defined benefit and reporting period.
Loans and receivables In the case of assets classified as defined contribution pension plans.
comprise mainly cash and cash equivalents available-for-sale, impairment losses are and trade and other receivables.
Defined contribution plans recognised inthe consolidated income statement and arise from objective evidence The Group pays fixed contributions to Available-for-sale that these assets have declined in value such separately administered pension insurance Available-for-sale financial assets are as a significant or prolonged decline in the fair plans.
The Group has no further obligations non-derivative financial assets that are either value of the security below its cost.
once the contributions have been paid.
The designated in this category or not classified in contributions are recognised as an employee any of the other categories.
They are included j Trade and other receivables benefit expense when they are due.
in non-current assets unless the investment Trade and other receivables are recognised matures or management intends to dispose initially at fair value and subsequently measured Defined benefit plans ofit within twelve months of the end of the at amortised cost less an impairment provision.
The liability recognised in the balance sheet in reporting period.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables respect of defined benefit pension plans is the isestablished when there is objective evidence present value of the defined benefit obligation Recognition and measurement that the Group will not be able to collect all at the end of the reporting period less the fair Regular purchases and sales of financial assets amounts due according to the original terms value of plan assets.
The defined benefit are recognised on the trade date: the date of thereceivables.
obligation is calculated annually by independent onwhich the Group commits to purchase orsell actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Financial assets are derecognised k Cash and cash equivalents The present value of the defined benefit when the rights to receive cashflows from Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash obligation is determined by discounting the theinvestments have expired or have been balances and call deposits with an original estimated future cash outflows using interest transferred and the Group has transferred maturity of three months or less.
Bank rates of high quality corporate bonds that are substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
overdrafts that are repayable on demand denominated in the currency in which the Loans and receivables and available-for-sale andform an integral part of the Groups cash benefits will be paid, and that have terms to financial assets are initially recognised at fair management are included as a component maturity approximating to the terms of the value.
Available-for-sale financial assets are ofcash and cash equivalents forthe purpose related pension obligation.
subsequently carried at fair value.
Loans of the statement of cash flows and are andreceivables are subsequently carried presented in current liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from atamortised cost using the effective experience adjustments and changes in l Trade and other payables interestmethod.
actuarial assumptions are charged or credited Trade and other payables are recognised to equity in other comprehensive income in Changes in the fair value of monetary initially atfair value and subsequently the period in which they arise.
andnon-monetary securities classified as measured at amortised cost.
available-for-sale are recognised in other Past service costs are recognised m Borrowings comprehensive income.
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair When securities classified as available-for-sale value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Such are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair interest bearing liabilities are subsequently value adjustments recognised in equity are measured at amortised cost using the included in the income statement as gains and effective interest rate method, which ensures losses from investment securities.
Dividends that any interest expense over the period to onavailable-for-sale equity instruments are repayment is at a constant rate on the balance recognised in the income statement as part of the liability carried in the balance sheet.
ofother income when the Groups right to Interest expense in this context includes initial receive payments is established.
transaction costs and premiums payable on redemption, as well as any interest payable while the liability is outstanding.
72 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued s Revenue u Operating lease payments 2.
Accounting policies continued Services rendered Payments under operating leases are recognised p Share-based payments Revenue comprises mainly commission in profit or loss on a straight line basis over The Group operates a number of equity-settled andfees receivable.
Commission earned the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received share-based schemes under which the Group onsales of residential and commercial arerecognised in profit or loss as an integral receives services from employees as property is accounted for on the exchange part of the total lease expense.
consideration for equity instruments options ofcontracts for such sales.
Survey, valuation of the Group.
The fair value of the employee v Net finance costs and conveyancing fees are accounted for services received in exchange for the grant Finance costs oncompletion of the service being provided.
ofthe options is recognised as an expense.
Finance costs comprise interest payable Commission earned on sales of insurance Where the share awards have non-market onborrowings including finance lease policies, mortgages and related products is related performance criteria the Group has commitments, net interest costs on the accounted for when the policies go on risk used the Binomial Lattice and Black Scholes pension scheme liabilities, the unwinding orthe mortgage is exchanged.
Commissions option valuation models to establish the ofthe discount rates in respect of financial and fees earned under lettings contracts relevant fair values.
Where the share awards liabilities and provisions, premiums payable on arerecognised at the point of delivery of have a TSR market related performance settlement or redemption and direct issue costs.
Revenue generated by Surveying criteria the Group has used the Monte Carlo Interest costs accrue using the effective interest Services from panel management contracts simulation valuation model to establish the method.
Fees paid on the establishment of isreported net of any fees paid on behalf relevant fair values see note 26.
Theresulting loan facilities are recognised as transaction ofpanel valuers, reflecting the fact that the values are amortised through the income costs of the loan and amortised over the Group does not act as the principal in statement over the vesting period of the period to which the facility relates.
Finance income Revenue in respect of consultancy services At the end of each reporting period, the Finance income comprises interest receivable performed is recognised as activity progresses Group revises its estimates of the number on funds invested.
Interest income is recognised to reflect the Groups partial performance of its ofoptions that are expected to vest based in profit or loss as it accrues using the contractual obligations.
Activity performance onthe non-market conditions and recognises effective interest method.
in excess of invoices raised is included within the impact of the revision to original estimates, amounts due from customers for contract w Exceptional items ifany, in the income statement, with a work.
Where amounts have been invoiced As permitted by IAS1 Presentation and corresponding adjustment to equity.
inexcess of work performed, the excess is disclosure certain items are presented The social security contributions payable in included within amounts due to customers for separately in the income statement as connection with the grant of the share options contract work.
Ifthe right to consideration is exceptional where, in the judgement of is considered an integral part of the grant conditional or contingent on a specified future thedirectors, they need to be disclosed itself, andthe charge will be treated as a event or outcome, the outcome of which is separately by virtue of their nature, size cash-settled transaction.
outside the control ofthe Group, revenue is orincidence in order to obtain a clear and not recognised until that critical event occurs.
consistent presentation of the Groups q Provisions underlying business performance.
Examples A provision is recognised in the balance Under certain service contracts, the Group of material and non-recurring items which sheetwhen the Group has a present legal manages client expenditure and is obliged to maygive rise to disclosure as exceptional orconstructive obligation as a result of a past purchase goods and services from suppliers items include costs of restructuring existing event, and it is probable that an outflow of and recharge them on to the customer at businesses, integration of newly acquired economic benefits will be required to settle cost.
The amounts charged by suppliers and businesses, asset impairments and costs the obligation.
Provisions are determined by recharged to clients are excluded from associated withacquiring new businesses.
discounting the expected future cash flows revenue and administrative expenses.
The columnar presentation of our income ata pre-tax rate that reflects current market Receivables, payables and cash relating statement separates exceptional items, assessments of the time value of money and, tothese transactions are included in the amortisation of intangibles arising on business when appropriate, the risks specific to the balance sheet.
acquisitions and share-based payments to liability.
The increase in the provision due to Deferred income illustrate consistently the Groups underlying passage of time is recognised in finance costs.
Where the Group receives an amount upfront business performance.
r Share capital in respect of future income streams, the value x Income tax Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
of the receipt is amortised over the period of Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the contract as the services are delivered and Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except theissue of new shares are shown in share the unexpired element is disclosed in liabilities to the extent that it relates to items recognised premium as a deduction from the proceeds.
inother comprehensive income or directly Where the employee benefit trust purchases t Other income inequity, in which case it is recognised in the Companys equity share capital treasury Other income is recognised when its receipt other comprehensive income ordirectly shares, the consideration paid, including isassured and the Group has no further inequity respectively.
anydirectly attributable incremental costs, obligations to any other party in respect of that isdeducted from equity attributable to the Current tax is the expected tax payable on income.
Rental income from sub-let properties Companys equity holders until the shares thetaxable income for the year, using tax isrecognised in profit or loss on a straight line arecancelled or reissued.
rates enacted or substantially enacted at basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives thebalance sheet date, and any adjustment granted are recognised as an integral part totax payable in respect of previous years.
Dividend income isrecognised when the right to receive paymentis established.
73 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Provision for incurred but not reported 2.
Critical accounting judgements Y IBNR : The Group also provides for future x Income tax continued and estimates liabilities arising from claims IBNR for Deferred tax is provided using the balance The preparation of the Groups consolidated mortgage valuation reports and home sheet liability method, providing for temporary financial statements under IFRS requires the buyer reports performed by the Surveying differences between the carrying amounts directors to make estimates and assumptions Services division.
This provision is estimated ofassets and liabilities for financial reporting that affect the reported amounts of assets and on a future projection of historical data for purposes and the amounts used for liabilities and the disclosure of contingent all claims received based on the number taxationpurposes.
Estimates and judgements of surveys undertaken to date.
This are continually evaluated and are based The following temporary differences are not projection takes into account the historic onhistorical experience and other factors provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: claim rate, claim liability rate and the including expectations of future events that the initial recognition of other assets or liabilities average loss per claim.
In view of the are believed to be reasonable under the that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit: significant events in the financial markets circumstances.
Actual results may differ and differences relating to investments in and the UK property market in recent years, fromthese estimates, given the uncertainty subsidiaries to the extent that they are unlikely the directors have identified a separate surrounding the assumptions and conditions to reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount sub-population of claims received which is upon which the estimates are based.
of deferred tax provided is based on the tracked separately from the normal level of expected manner of realisation or settlement The directors consider that the following claims.
This sub-population has been defined of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, estimates and judgements are likely to have as claims received since 2008 for surveys using tax rates enacted or substantially the most significant effect on the amounts carried out between 2004 and 2007. enacted at the balance sheet date.
recognised inthe Groups consolidated The estimate of these provisions by their financial statements.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the natureis judgemental.
The three key inputs, extent that it is probable that future taxable Provisions and other contingencies claim rate, claim liability rate and average loss, profits will be available against which the asset Claims and litigation are very sensitive to any change in trends.
Deferred tax assets are reduced When evaluating the impact of potential liabilities example, a 5% increase in the claim rate could to the extent that it is no longer probable that arising from claims against the Group, the Group lead to a 3.3 million increase in future claims.
the related tax benefit will be realised.
takes legal and professional advice to assist it in Similarly a 5% increase in the claim liability rate arriving at its estimation of the liability taking into would add 3.2 million to provision.
However, Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are account the probability of the success of any a 10% increase in average loss per claim offset when there is a legally enforceable right claims and also the likely development of claims would add 0.9 million.
to offset current tax assets against current tax based on recent trends.
liabilities and when the deferred income taxes During 2013 the number of claims received assets and liabilities relate to income taxes The Group has made provision for claims was in line with expectations and the cumulative levied by the same taxation authority on either received under its professional indemnity rate increased but remained below the level the taxable entity or different taxable entities insurance arrangements.
The provision can modelled at the end of 2012.
As expected, where there is an intention to settle the bebroken down to three categories: we did experience an increase in the claim balances on a net basis.
liability rate as we made progress clearing a Reserves for known claims: These losses Y number of claims.
The higher rate has been Deferred income tax is provided on temporary are recommended by our professional claims included in the model going forwards.
There is differences arising on investments in subsidiaries handlers and approved panel law firms a possible risk that a significant rise in mortgage and joint ventures, except for deferred income who take into account all the information interest rates could lead to an increase in tax liability where the timing of the reversal available on the claims and recorded on repossessions and potential losses being ofthe temporary difference is controlled our insurance bordereaux.
Where there is incurred by the lenders.
But since there are bythe Group and it is probable that the insufficient information on which to assess nomacro-economic indicators that this is temporary difference will not reverse in the potential losses, initial reserves may be areasonable likelihood in the short term, theforeseeable future.
set at an initial level to cover investigative thedirectors do not consider it appropriate costs or nil.
Further provisions are also Additional income taxes that arise from the toprovide for additional claims due to made for specific large claims which may distribution of dividends are recognised at macro-economic changes.
be subject to litigation and the directors thesame time as the liability to pay the assess the level of these provisions based The average loss per claim increased slightly related dividend.
on legal advice and the likelihood of success.
in relation to claims relating to the 2004-2007 y Segment reporting period.
However, this was offset by a reduction Provision for the losses on known claims Y Operating segments are reported in a manner in the average loss arising for normal claims.
to increase: It can take one to two years consistent with the internal reporting to the The directors have reviewed this input and for claims to develop after they are initially Governance and Performance Committee consider that the level of change is within notified to the Group.
For this reason, which hasbeen identified as the chief normal fluctuations and therefore do not theGroup creates a provision based operating decision maker.
propose to uplift the average loss.
onhistorical loss rates for closed claims z Dividend distribution and average losses for closed claims.
Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is recognised as a liability in theGroups financial statements in the period in which thedividends are approved by the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
74 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued management estimates offuture cash flows, The Governance and Performance Committee 3.
Critical accounting judgements which require estimating revenue growth assesses the performance of the operating and estimates continued ratesand profit margins.
Further details of segments based on a measure of adjusted Provisions and other contingencies impairment reviews are setout in note 14.
This measurement basis excludes continued theeffects of exceptional items, share-based Onerous contracts Fair value of available-for-sale assets payment charges and related National Insurance When any of the Groups businesses vacate a The fair value of available-for-sale financial contributions, management fees and income leased property prior to the expiration of the assets that are not traded on an active market from joint ventures.
Finance income and costs lease, a provision is established to reflect the is derived using a combination of valuation are not allocated to the segments, as this type expected lease payments that the Group will techniques and the most recent purchase of activity is driven by the central treasury incur prior to the assignment or sublease price for these assets see note 16 c. activities as part of managing the cash ofthe property.
Such a calculation requires Share-based payments position of the Group.
ajudgement as to the timing and duration of At the end of each reporting period, the Group the expected vacancy periods.
When making Revenue and other income from external revises its estimates of the number of options these judgements, the directors consider a customers arising from activities in the UK that are expected to vest based on the number of factors including thelocation and was 584,047,000 2012: 524,372,000 non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises condition of the property, the terms of the restated and that arising fromactivities the impact of the revision to original estimates, lease and current economic environment.
overseas was 721,000 2012: 356,000. if any, in the income statement, with a Property repairs corresponding adjustment to equity.
The assets and liabilities for each operating The Group occupies a significant number segment represent those assets and liabilities ofleased properties across the country.
Segmental reporting arising directly from the operating activities Theseleases contain dilapidation obligations.
Pension assets and liabilities Management has determined the operating The directors take the advice of the in-house and liabilities arising from the term loan and segments based on the operating reports surveyors in assessing the level of the future revolving credit facility are not allocated to reviewed by the Governance and Performance obligation.
When assessing the level of operating segments, but allocated in full to Committee that are used to assess both dilapidation required for ourretail properties, allother segments within the segmental performance and strategic decisions.
the likelihood of exiting each property is analysis.
All inter-segment pricing is done Management has identified that the Governance takeninto account.
Non-current assets and Performance Committee isthe chief attributable to the UK of 707,903,000 operating decision maker in accordance with Clawback provisions 2012: 607,261,000 are included in the the requirements of IFRS 8 Operating segments.
The clawback provision in respect of life total assets in the tables on the following insurance commissions earned is calculated The Governance and Performance Committee pages.
Non-current assets of 24,000 using a model that has been developed over considers the business to be split into seven 2012:56,000 are attributable tothe several years.
The model is based on historical main types of business generating revenue: overseas operations.
The equity investment information collating clawback data in quarterly Estate Agency, London & Premier, Lettings, in joint venture is disclosed within all other cohorts.
The directors use this data, together Financial Services, Surveying Services, segments: 2,913,000 2012: 2,676,000. with latest market trends, to make a judgement Conveyancing Services and Lambert Smith as to the future clawback rates to be applied.
The available-for-sale financial assets are Hampton divisions, and all other segments disclosed within other all other segments comprise central head office functions.
The Group accounts for all business The Estate Agency division generates combinations under the purchase method.
There are no differences from the last annual commission earned on sales of residential and Under the purchase method, the identifiable financial statements in the basis of measurement commercial property.
The London & Premier assets acquired andliabilities and contingent of segment profit or loss.
However, the division revenue is earned from both estate liabilities assumed are measured at their fair Governance and Performance Committee has agency commissions and lettings and value at the acquisition date.
Judgements implemented a restructuring of the reportable management fees.
The Lettings division andestimates are made inrespect of the business segments during the latter half of 2013. earnsfees from the letting and management measurement of the fair values of assets The structure now includes a London & Premier of residential properties and fees for the andliabilities acquired and consideration segment comprising the previous Hamptons management of leasehold properties.
Where necessary, the Group segment and other London Prime Estate Agency TheFinancial Services division receives engages external valuation experts to branches.
Further details were announced commission from the sale of insurance adviseon fair value estimates, or otherwise inDecember 2013 and are available on the policies, mortgages and related products performsestimates internally.
Accordingly, all segmental analysis under contracts with financial service has been restated for both 2012 and 2013 providers.
Surveying Services comprises Impairment of goodwill and toreport on a consistent basis.
surveying and valuation fees which are  assets received primarily under contracts with Determining whether goodwill and indefinite financial institutions with some survey fees lived intangible assets are impaired requires being earned from home buyers.
Conveyancing an estimation of the value in use of the cash Services generates revenue from conveyancing generating units to which the assets have work undertaken from customers buying or been allocated.
Calculating the cash flows selling houses through our network.
Lambert requires the use of judgements and estimates Smith Hamptons revenue is earned from that have been included in our strategic plans commercial property consultancy and advisory and long range forecasts.
Inaddition, judgement services, property management and valuation is required to estimate the appropriate interest services.
Other income generated by head rate to be used to discount the future cash office functions, relates primarily to sub-let flows.
The data necessary for the execution rental income or other sundry fees.
ofthe impairment tests are based on 75 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 4.
Other income 2013 2012 000 000 Rent receivable 1,064 1,405 Dividend income on available-for-sale financial asset 1,536 Other operating income 11,304 11,088 13,904 12,493 Other operating income comprises a number of items, but principally relates to income arising from client accounting taxation services and commission earned on energy performance certification.
Employees and directors a Employee costs for the Group during the year: 2013 2012 000 000 Wages and salaries 287,996 264,154 Share options granted to directors and employees note 26 7,360 Other long term employee benefits 544 Defined contribution pension cost note 24 4,804 4,064 Defined benefit scheme costs 124 Social security costs 32,322 28,756 332,606 297,518 77 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 6.
Employees and directors continued Average monthly number of people including executive directors employed: 2012 restated for 2013 segment changes By business segment Number Number Estate Agency 3,612 3,863 London & Premier 1,119 809 Lettings 1,897 1,666 Financial Services 904 1,000 Surveying Services 547 538 Conveyancing Services 355 362 Lambert Smith Hampton 210 Head office 182 194 8,826 8,432 b Key management compensation The following table details the aggregate compensation paid in respect of the members of the Governance and Performance Committee including the executive directors.
2013 2012 000 000 Wages and salaries 4,115 2,981 Short term non-monetary benefits 62 47 Share-based payments 5,989 Post-employment benefits 129 104 10,295 3,132 7.
Other operating costs 2012 2013 restated 000 000 Rent 26,134 26,918 Advertising and marketing expenditure 16,937 17,780 Vehicles, plant and equipment hire 15,792 14,948 Other motoring costs 11,171 11,925 Repairs and maintenance 5,284 4,985 Trade receivables impairment 1,099 1,840 Loss on disposal of plant, property and equipment 106 35 Other 98,438 87,243 Total operating costs 174,961 165,674 Services provided by the Companys auditor and network firms During the year the Company including its overseas subsidiaries obtained the following services from the Companys auditor at costs asdetailedbelow: 2013 2012 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the consolidated financial statements 154 125 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 347 206 audit related assurance services 44 non-audit services of which 1m relates to IPO related services in 2013 1,054 7 tax advisory services 48 28 services relating to corporate finance transactions entered into or proposed to be entered into on behalf oftheCompany 152 6 1,799 372 78 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Finance costs 2013 2012 000 000 Interest costs: Interest payable on borrowings 642 122 Interest payable on loan notes including 2.5m of exceptional items in 2013 see note 10 13,107 25,515 Interest payable on revolving credit facility 416 336 Interest arising from finance leases 328 9 Other interest paid 625 1,000 Cash payable interest 15,118 26,982 Amortisation of loan facility fee including 2.0m of exceptional items in 2013 see note 10 3,243 705 Net interest costs arising on the pension scheme 255 286 Other finance costs 190 558 Non-cash payable interest 3,688 1,549 Finance costs 18,806 28,531 9.
Exceptional items The following items have been included in arriving at loss before taxation: 2013 2012 000 000 Exceptional income Movement in value of put options 3,252 Deferred income amortisation arising from fair valuation of Zoopla shares crystallised upon the merger in May 2012 2,534 4,615 2,534 7,867 Exceptional costs IPO related: Exceptional costs charged to operating profit Costs incurred in relation to the IPO 3,979 Share-based payment cost in relation to accelerated management incentive plan 694 Exceptional costs charged to finance costs Early redemption penalty incurred on redemption of 250m Senior Secured Notes 2,500 Accelerated amortisation of capitalised finance costs relating to cancelled facilities 2,042 9,215 Non-IPO related: Exceptional costs charged to operating profit Insurance claims and litigations 25,223 Redundancy costs 3,066 Property provisions 2,903 Other restructuring costs 5,358 Impairment of assets 133 Total cost of restructuring 11,460 Acquisition expenses 890 377 Total exceptional costs 10,105 37,060 Net exceptional costs 7,571 29,193 79 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 10.
Exceptional items continued 2013 Exceptional income In May 2012 Zoopla merged with The Digital Property Group crystallising a number of warrants, which were granted to the Group under an agreement to list properties on the Zoopla website, which converted to ordinary shares.
At the merger date, the Group fair valued these shares at 12.2 million.
The shares were consideration for services provided to Zoopla over a period of time to 2015 and therefore recognised as deferred income.
The deferred income is being amortised to the income statement over the period to 2015 and the income recognised relates to one year of amortisation.
Exceptional costs In March 2013 the Group was listed on the London Stock Exchange under a new holding company, Countrywide plc.
The costs charged to the income statement relate to costs incurred as a result of the listing but not directly related to the issue of new shares.
These costs include such items as marketing expenditure, executive search and selection and additional PAYE and NI triggered due to payments before the tax year end.
In May 2013 the Group repaid the 250 million Senior Secured Notes: as a result of the early redemption a penalty charge of 2.5 million was incurred.
At the same time, the existing revolving credit facility was cancelled and these events triggered the acceleration of previously capitalised finance costs.
Acquisition expenses principally relate to the costs of acquisition of Lambert Smith Hampton which, as a material acquisition in the current year, has been treated as exceptional.
2012 Exceptional income In 2011 the Group assessed the fair value of the put options in respect of Capital Private Finance and United Surveyors based on the information available at the time.
The fair value is the amount Countrywide is expected to pay to buy out the non-controlling interest in those subsidiaries.
Subsequently, these businesses performed well, although the lack of any significant recovery in the residential property market delayed the intended expansion plans and consequently the put options were reassessed at a lower amount.
In accordance with IAS 39, the reduction in value was credited to the income statement and disclosed as exceptional income due to the size of the transaction.
In May 2012 Zoopla merged with The Digital Property Group crystallising a number of warrants, which were granted to the Group under an agreement to list properties on the Zoopla website, which converted to ordinary shares.
The deferred income is being amortised to the income statement over the period to 2015: there was a catch-up to the end of 2011 of 2.2 million and credit in respect of 2012 of 2.4 million, both of which were recognised in 2012.
Exceptional costs During the latter part of 2012 the Group experienced substantially worsening trends in terms of professional indemnity PI claims received andlosses recognised on the insurance bordereaux.
As a consequence of this the Group recognised a further exceptional charge of 25.2 million.
As discussed in note 3, Critical accounting judgements and estimates, the directors base their assessment of the provision on a number of factors: legal and professional advice, historical trends of claims received and losses incurred.
During 2012 the rate of claims received increased and the average loss also rose due the closure of the more challenging disputes.
The directors noted that the claims received in 2012 were mainly from prime lenders, who until now had not reported losses.
Furthermore, as the six year statute of limitations approached for surveys in 2006 and 2007, the level of claims increased as lenders sought to protect their position.
The directors have reflected the experience changes in the predictive models, taken account of potential worsening of positions in certain legal cases and increased the provision accordingly.
Of the 25.2 million charge, 15.3 million relates to claims not yet received or current claims not assessed by the professional legal advisors due to lack of information.
The management team continued to restructure its cost base and as a result recognised a further exceptional cost of 11.5 million, : outsourcing of the IT function to CGI: provision of costs to transition to CGI over the course of 18 months of 3.4 million.
In addition to Y transitioning to CGI, there are a number of transformational initiatives and investment due to be implemented during the course of 2013.
Thebenefits of both the transition and transformation are expected to be realised from 2014: Estate Agency division: centralisation of operations and creation of a National Administration Centre incurred redundancy and office closure Y costs of 1.5 million.
Restructuring of the divisions corporate property services operation and the removal of more layers of management increased the one-off charge in 2012 by 3.3 million: the Lettings division closed some branches and consolidated its operations within the Estate Agency network in order to benefit from Y efficiencies and closer working ties in the future, incurring a charge of 0.8 million in 2012: the Financial Services division restructured its Land and New Homes services and restructured some operations at a cost of 0.6 million: and Y the Surveying division took the opportunity to restructure its claims handling operations within its National Operations Centre as the contract Y with external providers expired and further senior management layers were removed: the cost of both was 0.9 million.
80 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Taxation Analysis of charge credit in year 2013 2012 000 000 Current tax on profits for the year 7,521 113 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,894 64 Total current tax 5,627 49 Deferred tax on profits for the year Origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,385 4,439 Impact of change in tax rate 2,230 3,615 Adjustments in respect of prior years 950 229 Total deferred tax note 23 1,795 7,825 Income tax charge credit 3,832 7,776 2013 2012 000 000 Tax on items credited to equity Deferred tax adjustment arising on share-based payments 1,235 Tax on items charged to other comprehensive income Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities 137 34 The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.25% 2012: 24.5%.
The differences are explained below: 2013 2012 000 000 Profit loss on ordinary activities before tax 38,125 10,771 Profit loss on ordinary activities multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.25% 2012: 24.5% 8,864 2,639 Effects of: Profits from joint venture 236 190 Other expenses not deductible 1,419 964 Permanent difference relating to depreciation not deductible 104 136 Tax relief on purchased goodwill 273 517 Utilisation of unprovided losses 18 28 Rate change on deferred tax provision 2,230 3,615 Income not subject to tax due to availability of capital losses 962 1,927 Adjustments in respect of prior years 2,844 165 Overseas losses 8 125 Total taxation charge credit 3,832 7,776 The changes to the main rate of corporation tax for UK companies announced in the March 2013 Budget were substantively enacted for financial reporting purposes on 2 July 2013.
The main changes in corporation tax rates, that will have accounting implications for deferred tax, are as follows: the main rate of corporation tax will reduce from 23% to 21% from 1 April 2014: the main rate of corporation tax will further reduce to20% from 1 April 2015.
The relevant deferred tax balances have been remeasured using a rate of 21%.
The overall effect of the change in tax rate to 20% effective from 1 April 2015, if applied to the deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date, would be to reduce the deferred tax liability by 1.5 million.
Dividends 2013 2012 000 000 Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year: interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 2.0 pence net per share 4,389 Total 4,389 A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013 of 6.0 pence net per share, amounting to a total dividend of 13,166,698, isto be proposed at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 30 April 2014.
In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, dividends declared after the balance sheet date are not recognised as a liability in these financial statements.
81 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 13.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares of Countrywide plc and, for periods prior to 25 March 2013, the weighted average number of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd shares as converted into Countrywide plc shares.
2013 2012 000 000 Profit loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent 33,872 3,417 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 204,968,140 156,343,770 Basic earnings per share in pence per share 16.53p 2.19 p For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in existence is adjusted to include all dilutive potential ordinary shares arising from share options.
2013 2012 000 000 Profit loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent 33,872 3,417 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 204,968,140 156,343,770 Adjustment for weighted average number of contingently issuable shares 1,272,700 Adjustment for weighted average number of treasury shares 2,940 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 206,243,780 156,343,770 Diluted earnings per share in pence per share 16.42p 2.19 p Adjusted earnings Profit loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent 33,872 3,417 Adjusted for the following items, net of taxation: Amortisation arising on intangibles recognised through business combinations 2,738 5,820 Share-based payments charge 6,508 NI on share-based payments charge 1,351 Exceptional income 2,534 7,867 Exceptional costs 4,502 28,557 Exceptional finance costs 3,487 Adjusted earnings, net of taxation 49,924 23,093 Adjusted basic earnings per share in pence per share 24.36p 14.77p Adjusted diluted earnings per share in pence per share 24.21p 14.77p 14.
Intangible assets a Goodwill 2013 2012 000 000 Cost At 1 January 773,873 762,300 Arising on acquisitions note 28 23,317 11,573 At 31 December 797,190 773,873 Accumulated impairment note 14 c At 1 January 417,356 417,356 Charge for the year At 31 December 417,356 417,356 Net book amount At 31December 379,834 356,517 82 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Intangible assets continued b Other intangible assets 2013 Customer Computer Brand contracts and Other software names relationships Pipeline intangibles Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 45,354 187,635 88,955 4,647 1,272 327,863 Acquisitions through business combinations seenote 28 166 28,377 13,453 41,996 Additions 11,498 11,498 Disposals 162 162 At 31December 56,856 216,012 102,408 4,647 1,272 381,195 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 40,584 33,844 54,952 4,647 136 134,163 Charge for the year 3,660 8,070 51 11,781 On disposals 161 161 At 31 December 44,083 33,844 63,022 4,647 187 145,783 Net book amount At 31December 12,773 182,168 39,386 1,085 235,412 Included within computer software are assets in the course of construction with a value of 6.4 million 2012: Nil for which no amortisation has been charged.
Depreciation will commence during 2014 when the assets enter operational use.
Computer software includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 2013 2012 000 000 Cost capitalised finance lease 6,360 Accumulated depreciation Net book amount 6,360 2012 Customer Computer Brand contracts and Other software names relationships Pipeline intangibles Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 43,408 187,635 86,337 4,647 1,272 323,299 Acquisitions through business combinations 2,618 2,618 Additions 2,177 2,177 Disposals 231 231 At 31December 45,354 187,635 88,955 4,647 1,272 327,863 Accumulated amortisation and impairment losses At 1 January 38,496 33,844 47,295 4,647 84 124,366 Charge for the year 2,319 7,657 52 10,028 On disposals 231 231 At 31 December 40,584 33,844 54,952 4,647 136 134,163 Net book amount At 31December 4,770 153,791 34,003 1,136 193,700 All amortisation charges have been treated as an expense in the income statement.
Brand names are treated as having an indefinite life, as a result of the fact that the Group will continue to operate these brands into perpetuity and they are therefore subject to annual impairment reviews.
The carrying amounts of various brand names owned by the Group have been disclosed below.
No amortisation has been disclosed as brands are considered to have an indefinite life and as such are tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment.
83 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 14.
Intangible assets continued b Other intangible assets continued 2013 2012 000 000 Brand names Bairstow Eves 17,173 17,173 John D Wood 14,464 14,464 Mann & Co 9,418 9,418 Slater Hogg & Howison 9,709 9,709 Taylors Estate Agents 10,071 10,071 Hamptons International 58,774 58,774 Blundell Property Services 6,494 6,494 Lambert Smith Hampton 28,377 154,480 126,103 Other brands 27,688 27,688 Net book value 182,168 153,791 c Impairment Due to the severe financial crisis originating in 2008 the following impairment charges have arisen in prior years: Brand Computer Goodwill names software Total 000 000 000 000 Estate Agency 227,156 33,844 261,000 Lettings 16,300 16,300 Financial Services 106,100 106,100 Surveying Services 40,000 10,500 50,500 Conveyancing Services 27,800 27,800 417,356 33,844 10,500 461,700 Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets are allocated to cash generating units and have been allocated to the lowest level of reporting unit.
In many cases, the operations of the acquired businesses have been fully integrated with the existing businesses and therefore it is not possible to identify separately the economic flows from those businesses.
In these cases the goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets have been tested against the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit reported at the higher level.
The goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets have been allocated to cash generating units as follows: 2013 Estate Financial Surveying Conveyancing London Lambert Smith Agency Lettings Services Services Services & Premier Hampton Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Goodwill 3,059 96,241 75,900 132,890 40,699 27,072 3,973 379,834 Indefinite life intangible assets 80,553 73,238 28,377 182,168 83,612 96,241 75,900 132,890 40,699 100,310 32,350 562,002 2012 restated Estate Financial Surveying Conveyancing London Lambert Smith Agency Lettings Services Services Services & Premier Hampton Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Goodwill 3,059 76,897 75,900 132,890 40,699 27,072 356,517 Indefinite life intangible assets 80,553 73,238 153,791 83,612 76,897 75,900 132,890 40,699 100,310 510,308 The recoverable amount of all the above operations has been calculated using the value in use calculation determined from cash flow projections from formally approved budgets and forecasts covering a five year period to 2018 2012: 2017.
The growth rates applied in the approved budgets and forecasts are based on past experience and outlook.
The discount rate used is based on the Groups estimated cost of capital.
Toevaluate the recoverable amount of each division, a terminal value has been assumed from the fifth year and includes a growth rate in the cash flows of 0% 2012: 1% into perpetuity.
84 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Intangible assets continued c Impairment continued Under IAS 36 Impairment of assets, the Group is required to: review its intangible assets in the event of a significant change in circumstances that would indicate potential impairment.
Y Thereviewsconducted at the end of 2013 concluded that there had been no further impairment of goodwill 2012: Nil : and review and test its goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets annually each year or in the event of a significant change in Y circumstances.
Theimpairment reviews conducted at the end of 2013 concluded that there had been no further impairment ofgoodwillor indefinite life intangible assets 2012: Nil.
The impairment review for 2013 was conducted in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets by estimating the value in use of each ofthe cash generating units based on the following assumptions which management believes are appropriate given the 2014 budget andforecast for future years: there is a 10% increase in housing transaction volumes during 2014.
Thereafter, a growth rate of 0% has been assumed: Y the pre-tax discount rate was calculated to be 8% 2012: 9% : and Y the benefits of past restructuring changes have been taken into account where there is appropriate certainty over cost reductions.
Y Based on the impairment test performed at 31 December 2013, there was no impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets required.
Sensitivity analysis The key assumption driving the value in use calculations is the growth rate of the housing transaction volumes.
Therefore, as part of the sensitivity analysis, management has considered the impact of applying a nil growth rate to the volume of housing transactions in 2014 and beyond.
Theresults indicated that with no growth in housing transaction volumes in 2014 and beyond, the Surveying Services divisions goodwill would be impaired by 26.9 million.
Given the observed market trends, the Group believes that this scenario is unlikely.
Sensitivity analysis was also undertaken in respect of the discount rate applied within the value in use calculations and significant headroom wasavailable for movements in the discount rate applied, such that no potential impairments were identified.
Property, plant and equipment 2013 Furniture Land and Leasehold Motor and buildings improvements vehicles equipment Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 4,103 23,825 122 51,142 79,192 Acquisition of subsidiaries note 28 107 84 1,100 1,291 Additions at cost 5,512 276 9,780 15,568 Transfers 270 9 261 Disposals 1,911 393 47 7,282 9,633 At 31December 2,192 28,781 444 55,001 86,418 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 930 15,157 16 39,493 55,596 Charge for the year 32 1,767 43 5,564 7,406 Disposals 621 157 45 7,234 8,057 At 31December 341 16,767 14 37,823 54,945 Net book amount At 31December 1,851 12,014 430 17,178 31,473 Included within furniture and equipment are computer hardware assets in the course of construction with a value of 2,785,000 2012: Nil for which nodepreciation has been charged.
85 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 15.
Property, plant and equipment continued 2012 Furniture Land and Leasehold Motor and buildings improvements vehicles equipment Total 000 000 000 000 000 Cost At 1 January 5,522 22,031 134 47,860 75,547 Acquisition of subsidiaries 286 13 29 328 Additions at cost 2,010 85 6,258 8,353 Transfers 75 75 Disposals 1,419 427 110 3,080 5,036 At 31December 4,103 23,825 122 51,142 79,192 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 1,216 14,208 65 37,550 53,039 Charge for the year 39 1,415 48 4,826 6,328 Transfers 64 64 Impairment 133 133 Disposals 325 402 97 3,080 3,904 At 31December 930 15,157 16 39,493 55,596 Net book amount At 31December 3,173 8,668 106 11,649 23,596 Furniture and equipment includes the following amounts in respect of computer hardware where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 2013 2012 000 000 Cost capitalised finance lease 7,029 962 Accumulated depreciation 843 291 Net book amount 6,186 671 The Group leases various assets, principally computer hardware and related costs, under finance lease agreements whose terms are between three and eight years.
Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for at the end of the reporting period but not yet incurred, relating to 2014 and the four subsequent years, isasfollows: 2013 2012 000 000 Property, plant and equipment 7,139 5,989 86 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Investments a Principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group The Company substantially owns directly or indirectly the whole of the issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of its subsidiary undertakings, most of which are incorporated in Great Britain, and whose operations are conducted in the United Kingdom.
Principal subsidiary undertakings ofthe Group at 31 December 2013 are presented below: Proportion of Proportion of ordinary shares ordinary shares held by held by Country of Parent the Group Subsidiary Nature of business incorporation % % Countrywide Holdings, Ltd Holding company Cayman Islands 100 100 Countrywide Group plc Holding company UK 100 Balanus Limited Holding company UK 100 Estate Agency and Lettings Countrywide Estate Agents Estate Agency and Lettings UK 100 London & Premier Hamptons Group Limited Holding company UK 100 Hamptons Estates Limited Estate Agency and Lettings Hong Kong 100 Sothebys International Realty Limited Estate agency UK 100 Surveying Services Countrywide Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK 100 Countrywide Social Housing Limited Surveying Services UK 58 United Surveyors Limited Surveying Services UK 60 Conveyancing Services Countrywide Property Lawyers Limited Conveyancing Services UK 100 TitleAbsolute Limited Conveyancing Services UK 100 Financial Services Countrywide Principal Services Limited Financial Services UK 100 Slater Hogg Mortgages Limited Financial Services UK 100 Mortgage Intelligence Limited Financial Services UK 100 Mortgage Next Limited Financial Services UK 100 Capital Private Finance Limited Financial Services UK 51 Life and Easy Limited Financial Services UK 100 Lambert Smith Hampton Lambert Smith Hampton Limited Property consultancy UK 100 Lambert Smith Hampton Group Limited Property consultancy UK 100 The directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings at 31 December 2013 will be annexed to the Companys next annual return.
Summary financial information for subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests is presented below: Countrywide Social Housing Limited United Surveyors Limited Capital Private Finance Limited 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 Current assets 871 725 1,463 1,210 316 118 Non-current assets 3 7 8 17 5 10 Current liabilities 441 283 709 751 160 60 Non-current liabilities 175 54 Net assets 433 449 587 476 107 68 Revenues 1,069 1,142 1,188 900 1,453 1,008 Net profit 306 416 468 585 299 250 Dividends paid 321 250 358 134 260 87 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 16.
Investments continued b Interests in joint ventures TM Group UK Limited At 31 December 2013 the Group had a 33.3% 2012: 33.3% interest in the ordinary share capital TM Group UK Limited TMG a UK company.
TMG is one of the largest companies in the provision of searches to the property companies sector measured by completed searches.
It delivers arange of property searches and data to land and property professionals in the UK, arranges for property searches directly with specific suppliers on behalf of its own customers, and has also started to supply IT applications and products to UK mortgage lenders.
During the year, TMG was a joint venture company.
2013 2012 000 000 At 1 January: net assets excluding goodwill 1,196 1,170 goodwill 1,480 1,480 2,676 2,650 Dividend received 778 748 Share of profits retained 1,015 774 At 31December: net assets excluding goodwill 1,433 1,196 goodwill 1,480 1,480 2,913 2,676 The summarised financial information of TM Group UK Limited is presented below.
2013 2012 000 000 Current assets 7,313 5,943 Non-current assets 387 264 Current liabilities 3,400 2,622 Net assets 4,300 3,585 Net assets adjusted for the percentage of ownership 1,433 1,196 Income 51,942 42,702 Expenses 48,897 40,380 Post-tax results 3,045 2,322 Share of post-tax results 1,015 774 c Available-for-sale financial assets 2013 2012 000 000 At 1 January 14,370 317 Purchased for cash 1,054 905 Shares acquired on crystallisation of warrants 12,217 Movement in fair value 27,475 953 Amortisation 22 22 At 31 December 42,877 14,370 The Group owns some Wimbledon debentures which were acquired and amortised over the life of the debenture.
The fair value of these debentures at 31 December 2013 was 31,000 2012: 53,000.
The Group purchased non-quoted equity instruments in Zoopla in 2010 for 242,000.
A further investment of 905,000 was made in 2012.
InMay 2012, Zoopla merged with The Digital Property Group and as a result crystallised some warrants into shares which were due under an arms length commercial agreement.
The fair value of these shares was assessed based on the most recent price paid for shares.
As a result of acquiring the additional shares for a nominal price and the fact that these shares were issued to the Group as part of the commercial agreement signed in 2010 to list the Groups properties for sale and rent on the Zoopla website, the excess in the assessed fair value, of these shares on initial recognition, over the nominal cost has been treated as deferred income and is being released over the period of the contract.
The amount released to the income statement is disclosed in note 10 and the amount held on the balance sheet as deferred income is identifiedin note 21.
In 2013, a further investment of 1,054,000 was made.
At the year end, the Group reviewed the fair value of the assets in light of information available.
Taking into account the fair value review undertaken and the recent transaction price paid for the shares by the Group and other independent shareholders in Zoopla, the directors concluded therehad been a change in fair value that could be reliably measured see note 33 as an unrecognised gain through the statement of comprehensive income.
88 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 000 000 Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables not past due 44,450 33,085 Trade receivables past due but not impaired 19,002 10,342 Trade receivables past due but impaired 3,848 4,993 Trade receivables 67,300 48,420 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 3,848 4,993 Trade receivables net 63,452 43,427 Amounts due from customers for contract work 1,346 Other receivables 8,670 9,573 Prepayments and accrued income 18,386 15,178 91,854 68,178 Trade and other receivables are all current and any fair value difference is not material.
Trade receivables are considered past due once theyhave passed their contracted due date.
Trade receivables are reviewed for impairment if they are past due beyond 90 days for individual customers or 180 days for commercial contracts.
Further information in respect of financial assets, including credit risk, is provided in note 33.
Trade and other receivables are denominated in Pounds Sterling with the exception of 698,000 2012: 237,000 which are receivable inHongKong Dollars.
A summary of the movement in the provision for impairment of receivables is detailed below: 2013 2012 000 000 As at 1 January 4,993 5,320 Additional provisions note 7 1,099 1,840 Amounts used 2,244 2,167 As at 31 December 3,848 4,993 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivable mentioned above.
The Group does not hold any collateral as security.
Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank and in hand 20,675 16,044 Short term bank deposits 15,650 30,500 36,325 46,544 Of the cash at bank and in hand, Nil 2012: 2,360,000 is not available for use.
In 2012, part of this value was held by the insurance cell and the balance being premiums collected on behalf of a client.
Of the short term bank deposits, a number were interest bearing within the following range: 2013: 0.5%1.5% 2012: 1.00%2.80%.
The following amounts were held in foreign currencies: 2013 2012 000 000 Hong Kong Dollars 51 76 Barbadian Dollars 121 121 172 197 89 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 19.
Trade and other payables 2012 2013 restated 000 000 Trade payables 13,625 15,290 Other financial liabilities 4,955 5,560 Deferred consideration 2,174 1,768 20,754 22,618 Other tax and social security payable 28,755 22,467 Accruals and other payables 63,912 45,673 113,421 90,758 Trade and other payables due within one year 106,286 79,947 Trade and other payables due after one year 7,135 10,811 113,421 90,758 The comparative has been restated to reclassify 2012 obligations under finance leases of 371,000 to borrowings see note 20.
The principal component of trade and other payables due after one year are: other financial liabilities in relation to put options 4,955,000 2012: 5,560,000 : and accrued National Insurance as share-based payment charges of 1,710,000 2012: Nil.
At 31 December 2013, other financial liabilities include put options of 4,955,000 2012: 5,560,000 to acquire the non-controlling interests in entities acquired in 2011 see note 16.
These financial liabilities are held at the present value of the expected redemption amount, which is based on managements expectation of performance, consistent with operating plans approved.
These options are exercisable as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Exercisable 2014 780 1,790 Exercisable 2016 4,175 3,770 4,955 5,560 The fair value of financial liabilities approximates their carrying value due to short maturities.
Financial liabilities are denominated in Pounds Sterling with the exception of Nil 2012: 104,000 which is payable in Hong Kong Dollars.
Borrowings 2012 2013 restated 000 000 Non-current Bank borrowings 2012: senior secured fixed rate notes 70,000 250,000 Other loans 1,000 1,000 Capitalised banking fees 1,960 1,226 Finance lease liabilities 8,217 235 77,257 250,009 Current Bank borrowings 5,000 Finance lease liabilities 2,487 136 7,487 136 Total borrowings 84,744 250,145 The comparative has been restated to reclassify 2012 obligations under finance leases of 371,000 from trade and other payables see note 19.
90 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Borrowings continued Analysis of net debt At Acquisitions Non-cash At 1 January 2013 Cash flow excluding cash changes 31 December 2013 000 000 000 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 46,544 10,219 36,325 Bonds due after one year 250,000 250,000 Capitalised banking fees 1,226 2,930 2,196 1,960 Loan notes 1,000 1,000 Term loan due after one year 70,000 70,000 Term loan due within one year 5,000 5,000 Finance leases due after one year 235 7,982 8,217 Finance leases due within one year 136 1,527 41 3,837 2,487 Total 203,601 169,238 41 14,015 48,419 Borrowings and other loans The Senior Secured Fixed Rate Notes due in 2018 were repaid on 8 May 2013 and the Senior Secured Revolving Credit Facility Agreement for25 million expiring in 2016 was prepaid at the same time.
On 20 March 2013 the Company entered into a 100 million Term and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement which terminates in March 2017, forwhich there are no assets pledged as security.
The facilities are split between 75 million Term Loan and 25 million Revolving Credit Facility RCF.
Theloan is repaid by instalments: 5 million on the first anniversary, 10 million on the second anniversary, 25 million on the third anniversary and the balance on termination.
Interest is payable based on LIBOR plus a margin of 3%.
The RCF is available for utilisation subject to satisfying fixed charge and leverage covenants, but was not drawn down during the year.
The unsecured loan notes are non-interest bearing, repayable in 2029, and arose on the purchase of Mortgage Intelligence Holdings Limited.
Finance lease liabilities Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
Gross finance lease liabilities minimum lease payments: 2013 2012 000 000 No later than one year 2,811 136 Later than one year and no later than five years 8,334 235 Later than five years 592 11,737 371 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 1,033 Present value of finance lease liabilities 10,704 371 The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 No later than one year 2,487 136 Later than one year and no later than five years 7,647 235 Later than five years 570 10,704 371 91 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 21.
Deferred income Deferred income will unwind as follows: 2013 2012 Cash Non-cash Total Total 000 000 000 000 Within one year 4,326 2,546 6,872 13,213 After one year: Between one and two years 2,655 2,534 5,189 7,124 Between two and three years 1,958 1,958 5,282 Between three and four years 1,146 1,146 2,364 Between four and five years 4 4 1,270 5,763 2,534 8,297 16,040 10,089 5,080 15,169 29,253 The Group recognises deferred income as a result of cash received in advance in relation to certain sales distribution contracts and lease incentives relating to the Groups operating leases.
The cash received is amortised over the life of the contracts to which they relate.
Non-cash proportion of deferred income relates to unamortised income portion created on acquisition of shares in Zoopla.
This deferred income is being amortised over the period of the commercial agreement which gave rise to these assets refer to notes 10 and 16 c. 22.
The provision is based on the present value of rentals and other unavoidable costs payable during the remaining lease period after taking into account rents receivable or expected to be receivable from sub-lessees, typically over a five year period.
Provisions are released when properties are assigned or sub-let.
The provision for property repairs represents estimates of the cost to repair existing dilapidations under leasehold covenants, in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets.
The average unexpired lease length of properties against which a provision has been made is two years.
Clawback represents the provision required to meet the estimated cost of repaying indemnity commission income received on life assurance policies that may lapse in the two years following issue.
92 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Provisions continued Claims and litigation provisions comprise the amounts set aside to meet claims by customers below the level of any PI insurance excess, the estimation of IBNR claims and any amounts that might be payable as a result of any legal disputes.
The provisions represent the directors best estimate of the Groups liability having taken professional advice.
In addition to the claims provisions recognised, the Group also provides for future liabilities arising from claims incurred but not received IBNR for mortgage valuation reports and home buyer reports provided by the Surveying Services division.
The basis for calculating this provision is outlined further in note 3, Critical accounting judgements and estimates.
While there are many factors which determine the settlement date of any claims, the expected cash flows are estimated based on the average length of time it takes to settle claims in the past, which is around two years.
Other provisions mainly comprise items relating to the operational reorganisation including some business closure costs and some IT transition expenses which are expected to be utilised over the next five years.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated in full on temporary differences under the liability method using a tax rate of 21% 2012: 23%.
The movement on the deferred tax account is shown below: 2013 2012 000 000 Deferred tax liability at 1 January 27,218 34,401 Credited to income statement 1,795 7,825 Acquired on acquisition of subsidiary note 28 7,182 608 Charged to other comprehensive income 137 34 Credited to equity 1,235 Net deferred tax liability at 31December 31,507 27,218 Deferred tax asset 15,418 16,458 Deferred tax liability 46,925 43,676 Net deferred tax liability at 31 December 31,507 27,218 Deferred tax asset expected to unwind within one year 3,015 3,724 Deferred tax asset expected to unwind after one year 12,403 12,734 15,418 16,458 Deferred tax liability expected to unwind within one year 3,792 1,662 Deferred tax liability expected to unwind after one year 43,133 42,014 46,925 43,676 Deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of all tax losses and other temporary differences giving rise to deferred tax assets to the extent that it is probable that these assets will be recovered through future taxable profits.
93 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 23.
Deferred tax continued The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there isan intention to settle the balances net.
2013 Charged to other comprehensive Charged income Asset credited credited liability to income to equity 000 000 000 Origination and reversal of temporary differences Capital allowances 8,976 1,312 Employee pension liabilities 932 452 137 Share-based payments 3,144 1,909 1,235 Trading losses 1,492 2,460 Intangible assets 46,030 5,380 Gain deferred by roll-over relief 886 Other temporary and deductible differences 865 1,270 31,507 1,795 1,098 2012 Charged Charged to other Asset credited comprehensive liability to income income 000 000 000 Origination and reversal of temporary differences Capital allowances 9,825 1,520 Employee pension liabilities 1,521 126 34 Trading losses 3,303 344 Intangible assets 42,786 7,392 Gain deferred by roll-over relief 887 Other temporary and deductible differences 1,806 617 27,218 7,825 34 Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of unused capital losses of 25,548,000 2012: 28,003,000 and 20,323,000 2012: 22,250,000 inrespect of non-trading loan relationships, and 449,000 in respect of trading losses 2012: 411,000.
There is no expiry date attributable tothese unrecognised deferred tax assets, but no assets have been recognised as there are currently no expectations ofoffsetting income streams arising, with the exception of the value noted below where an identical liability would also be recognised.
Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised in respect of the tax impact of the unrealised capital gain of 5,770,000 2012: 2,995,000 arising from the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets because the unrecognised losses above, would offset any future gain.
94 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Post-employment benefits The Group offers membership of the Countrywide plc Pension Scheme to eligible employees, the only pension arrangements operated bytheGroup.
The Scheme has two sections of membership: defined contribution and defined benefit.
Defined contribution pension arrangements The pensions cost for the defined contribution scheme in the year was 4,804,000 2012: 4,064,000.
Defined benefit pension arrangements In the past the Group offered a defined benefit pension arrangement, however, this was closed to new entrants in 1988 and subsequently closed to further service accrual at the end of 2003.
Members of the defined benefit arrangements earned benefits linked to final pensionable salary and service at the date of retirement or date of leaving the scheme if earlier.
The average duration of the defined benefit pension scheme is 16 years.
The defined benefit pension arrangements provide pension benefits to its members based on earnings at the date of leaving the scheme.
Pensions in payment are updated in line with the minimum of 4% or retail price index RPI inflation.
The Scheme is established and administered inthe UK and ultimately overseen by the Pensions Ombudsman.
The regulatory framework requires the Group to fund the scheme every three years and for the Group to agree the valuation with the trustees.
As such, the funding arrangements will be reviewed at the next valuation dueat5 April 2015.
The Group is responsible for ensuring that pension arrangements are adequately funded and the directors have agreed afunding programme to bring down the deficit in the defined benefit scheme over the next five years.
During the year, the Group paid 1.9million 2012:Nil to the defined benefit scheme.
During the year which commenced on 1 January 2014, the employer is expected topaycontributions of 1.9 million 2013: 1.9 million.
Further contributions of 1.9 million will be made in each of the next five years.
The Groups obligations under the pension arrangements are subject to inherent estimation uncertainty.
While the trustees and actuary assess the value of the scheme assets, and the extent of the liabilities, they are obliged to make a number of assumptions, sensitivities to which are detailed later on.
Furthermore, the scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are exposed to risks in the equities and bond markets and similarly the liabilities can fluctuate according to gilt or corporate bond rate.
The Scheme assets under defined benefit pension arrangements are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The trustees are required to act in the best interests of the Schemes beneficiaries and they take independent advice when deliberating matters relating to the Scheme.
The liabilities of the scheme under defined pension arrangements are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the scheme using the projected unit method, which is an accrued benefits valuation method.
The defined benefit liabilities set out in this note have been calculated by an independent actuary based on the results of the most recent full actuarial valuation at 5 April 2012, updated to 31 December 2013.
The results of the calculations and the assumptions adopted are shown below.
The Group immediately recognises the actuarial gains and losses directly in other comprehensive income as shown in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Present value of funded obligations 43,581 44,518 Fair value of plan assets 39,143 37,906 Net liability recognised in the balance sheet 4,438 6,612 95 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 24.
Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit pension arrangements continued The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the year is as follows: Present value of Fair value of obligation plan assets Total 000 000 000 At 1 January 2013 44,518 37,906 6,612 Expected return on scheme assets 1,669 1,669 Actuarial loss 474 474 Employer contributions 1,900 1,900 Service cost 124 124 Interest cost 1,924 1,924 Actuarial loss from changes in financial assumptions 28 28 Actuarial gain from changes in demographic assumptions 1,015 1,015 Changes due to experience adjustments 84 84 Benefits paid 1,734 1,734 Expenses 124 124 At 31 December 2013 43,581 39,143 4,438 Present value of Fair value of obligation plan assets Total 000 000 000 At 1 January 2012 44,534 38,071 6,463 Expected return on scheme assets 1,731 1,731 Actuarial loss on scheme assets 513 513 Interest cost 2,017 2,017 Actuarial loss from changes in financial assumptions 1,150 1,150 Actuarial gain from changes in demographic assumptions 644 644 Changes due to experience adjustments 1,156 1,156 Benefits paid 1,383 1,383 At 31 December 2012 44,518 37,906 6,612 The major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets are: 2013 2012 % % Cash 1 16 UK equities 6 4 Overseas equities 6 17 UK Fixed interest gilts 11 8 Corporate bonds 45 32 Other GARS 10 Other insured pensioners 21 23 100 100 Insured pensioners and cash constitute unquoted investments.
All other investments are managed funds either quoted directly or comprising quoted investments.
The Group does not have any of its own transferable instruments, property occupied or other assets used held as plan assets.
The amounts recognised in the income statement are: 2013 2012 000 000 Current service cost 124 Net interest cost on pension scheme liabilities within finance costs 255 286 Total charge to the income statement 379 286 96 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Post-employment benefits continued Defined benefit pension arrangements continued The amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are: 2013 2012 000 000 Actuarial loss on scheme assets 474 513 Actuarial gain loss on scheme liabilities: Actuarial gain loss from changes in financial assumptions 28 1,150 Actuarial gains from changes in demographic assumptions 1,015 644 Changes due to experience adjustments 84 1,156 Other comprehensive income 653 137 Deferred tax adjustment arising on the pension scheme assets and liabilities 137 34 516 103 Cumulative actuarial loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income after tax 5,219 5,735 The principal assumptions made by the actuaries were: 2012 2013 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions On benefits earned prior to 1 December 1999 4.20% 4.10% On benefits earned after 1 December 1999 3.15% 2.60% Discount rate 4.50% 4.40% RPI inflation 3.25% 2.60% CPI inflation 2.45% 1.90% Expected net return on plan assets 4.50% 4.40% Cash commutation 20% 20% Life expectancy at age 65 years Male pensioner member 22.8 22.7 Female pensioner member 25.0 25.0 Male pensioner non-member age 45 now 24.5 24.5 Female pensioner non-member age 45 now 26.9 26.9 To develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption, the Group considered the current level of expected returns on risk-free investments primarily government bonds, the historical level of the risk premium associated with the other asset classes in which the portfolio isinvested and the expectations for future returns of each asset class.
The expected return for each asset class was then weighted based on the target assets allocation to develop the expected long term rate of return on assets assumption for the portfolio.
Sensitivity analysis The results of the calculations are sensitive to the assumptions used.
The defined benefit obligation position revealed by IAS 19 calculations must be expected to be volatile, principally because the market value of the assets with a significant exposure to equities is being compared with a liability assessment derived from corporate bond yields.
However, the Group has taken steps to mitigate these risks of asset volatility, including insuring some of the pensioners as illustrated by the asset portfolio.
The sensitivity analyses below are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to those disclosed in the Listing Prospectus.
Defined Change from benefit obligation disclosed deficit 000 000 Defined benefit obligation 43,581 Discount rate less 0.25% 45,196 1,615 RPI and linked assumptions plus 0.25% 43,852 271 Members living one year longer than assumed 45,281 1,700 97 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 24.
Post-employment benefits continued Sensitivity analysis continued Defined benefit obligation trends: 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 000 000 000 000 000 Scheme assets 39,143 37,906 38,071 33,888 31,536 Scheme liabilities 43,581 44,518 44,534 39,394 37,991 Scheme deficit 4,438 6,612 6,463 5,506 6,455 Experience gain loss on scheme liabilities 84 1,156 24 499 761 Gain from changes in the demographic assumptions forvalueof scheme liabilities 1,015 644 Gain loss from changes in the assumptions for value ofscheme liabilities 28 1,150 4,237 1,021 1,662 Experience loss gain adjustments on assets 474 513 1,660 186 340 Expected maturity analysis of undiscounted pension benefits at 31 December 2013: Between one Between two Less than one year and two years and five years Over five years Total 000 000 000 000 000 Undiscounted pension benefits 1,532 1,845 5,865 85,502 94,744 25.
Called up share capital 2012 Class A 1 ordinary shares Class B 1p ordinary shares Class C 1p ordinary shares non-voting Share capital of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd Shares 000 Shares 000 Shares 000 Issued and fully paid At 1 January 2012 146,066,312 146,066 146,066,312 1,461 12,634,929 126 Shares issued to management 784,265 8 Shares redeemed in the year 373,962 4 At 31 December 2012 146,066,312 146,066 146,066,312 1,461 13,045,232 130 Capital reorganisation On 21 December 2012 the Company issued 100 ordinary shares at 1 each to the initial shareholder 7Side Secretarial Limited.
These shares were transferred to Jim Clarke on 28 December 2012 and subsequently redesignated and subdivided into 10,000 C shares on 19 February 2013.
On 18 March 2013 the Company issued 146,066,312 1 A shares, 146,066,312 0.01 B shares and 12,960,429 0.01 C shares as consideration for the purchase of the entire share capital of Countrywide Holdings Ltd. Each A share is stapled to a B share.
The Company subsequently reorganised its share capital.
Each A share and one B share together were redesignated as one ordinary share of0.01 each and 100 deferred shares of 0.01 each.
Furthermore, each C share was redesignated as 10,464,164 ordinary shares of 0.01 and 2,496,265 deferred shares of 0.01 each.
As part of the capital reorganisation, on 19 March 2013 the Company reduced its share capital by cancelling all the deferred shares in issue resulting in share capital of 1,565,305 and this reduction was accounted for as a realised profit, giving rise to distributable reserves of 146,091,275.
On 25 March 2013 the Company issued 62,914,485 ordinary shares of 0.01 for consideration of 220 million.
Called up issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 1 pence each Number 000 Shares in issue following capital reorganisations above at 19 March 2013 156,530,476 1,565 New shares issued on 25 March 2013 62,914,485 629 At 31 December 2013 219,444,961 2,194 Where the employee benefit trust purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
At the year end, 39,375 shares were held in relation to matching shares of the SIP scheme.
Please refer to note 8 of the parent company financial statements for a full reconciliation of movements in share capital.
98 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 26.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of share-based payment schemes for executive directors and other employees, all of which are equity-settled.
TheGroup has no legal or constructive obligation to repurchase or settle any of the options in cash.
The total cost recognised in the income statement was 8,054,000 in the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: Nil.
Employers NI is being accrued, where applicable, at the rate of13.8% which management expects to be the prevailing rate at the time the options are exercised, based on the share price at the reporting date.
The total NI charge for the year was 1,710,000 2012: Nil.
The following table analyses the total cost between each of the relevant schemes, together with the number of options outstanding: Outstanding at 31 December 2013 2012 Number Number Charge of options Charge of options 000 thousands 000 thousands Accelerated management incentive plan 694 n a to current entity IPO plan 6,938 7,185 Long term incentive plan 407 758 Share incentive plan 15 26 8,054 7,969 Disclosed as an exceptional item see note 10.
A summary of the main features of each scheme is given below.
The schemes have been split into two categories: executive schemes and other schemes.
For further details on executive schemes, see the remuneration report on pages 44 to 56.
Executive schemes Long term incentive plan LTIP The LTIP is open to executive directors and designated senior management, and awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Awards are subject to market and non-market performance criteria and vest over a three year period.
IPO plan At the time of the flotation in March 2013, the Company nil cost share options to executive directors and designated senior management designed for the grant of one-off awards in recognition of the loss of rights under a management incentive package that terminated prior to, and as a result of, the flotation the MIP.
IPO options granted to the executive directors become exercisable as follows: 50% on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option and 50% on the third anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option.
IPO options granted to other participants will normally become exercisable on the second anniversary of the date of granting the IPO option.
The number of options that will vest is subject to the performance criterion based on EBITDA for 2014 as well as continued service.
Management incentive plan MIP Certain members of the management team subscribed to the MIP, under whose terms senior management purchased shares in Countrywide Holdings, Ltd.
The difference between the purchase price and the fair value of shares granted to employees were treated as share-based payments.
Due to the share exchange on 18 March 2013 and subsequent reorganisation which crystallised the number of C shares exchanged, the vesting period was accelerated.
Other schemes Share incentive plan SIP An HMRC approved share incentive plan was introduced in October 2013.
Under the SIP, eligible employees are invited to make regular monthly contributions into a scheme operated by Capita.
Ordinary shares in the Company are purchased at the current market price and an award of one matching share is made for every two shares acquired by an employee, subject to a vesting period of three years from the date of each monthly grant.
99 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 26.
Share-based payments continued The aggregate number of share awards outstanding for the Group and their weighted average exercise price is shown below: 2013 2012 Executive schemes Options Executive scheme SIP LTIP IPO MIP SIP Average MIP Number Number Number Number exercise price Number of options of options of shares of options per option of shares thousands thousands thousands thousands pence thousands At 1 January 13,046 12,635 Granted 758 7,185 26 784 Exchanged 12,961 Buy back 85 373 At 31 December 758 7,185 26 13,046 Grant date 6 9 13 18 3 13 5 11 13 Vesting date 6 9 16 18 3 16 5 12 16 Expiry date 6 9 23 18 3 21 Executive schemes are granted at Nil consideration and SIP matching shares are granted at Nil consideration.
As part of his appointment arrangements, Robert Davies was awarded 200,700 with an entitlement to purchases shares with an equivalent aggregate value, at the nominal per share value, prior to admission.
To maintain the Chairmans independence, the shares were not subject toany restrictions other than those attaching to ordinary shares held by shareholders or required by law.
However, shortly after grant, the individual confirmed in writing that he did not intend to sell the shares prior to the second anniversary of admission.
None of the schemes were exercisable at the year end.
The following information is relevant to the determination of the fair value of the awards granted during the year under the schemes: LTIP TSR LTIP IPO Share condition EPS condition plan incentive plan Option pricing model Monte Carlo Black Scholes Binomial Lattice Fair value at grant date Weighted average share price at grant date 550p 550p 350p 548p Exercise price 0p 0p 0p 0p Weighted average contractual life 3 years 3 years 2.2 years 3 years Expected dividend yield n a 1.0% 1.5% n a Risk-free interest rate 0.5% 0.5% 1.8% n a Volatility n a 26.2% n a n a 27.
Reserves The following table provides a breakdown of other reserves shown on the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Capital Capital Foreign Available-for-sale reorganisation redemption exchange financial assets Treasury share reserve reserve reserve reserve reserve Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Balance at 1 January 2012 45,536 45 45,491 Currency translation differences 16 16 Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 953 953 Repurchase of shares 4 4 Balance at 1 January 2013 45,540 29 953 46,464 Currency translation differences 27 27 Movement in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets 27,475 27,475 Repurchase of shares 1 1 Capital reorganisation 92,820 45,541 47,279 Treasury shares 226 226 Balance at 31 December 2013 92,820 56 28,428 226 120,966 100 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Reserves continued The following describes the nature and purpose of each reserve within shareholders equity: Share premium The amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value less any costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares.
Capital reorganisation reserve The capital reorganisation reserve represents the difference between the share capital of the Company and the share capital, share premium andcapital redemption reserve of Countrywide Holdings, Ltd at the point of the exchange of equity interests on 19 March 2013.
Capital redemption reserve The capital redemption reserve represents the cancellation of the original share capital and share premium of the company and the par value ofany shares repurchased.
Treasury share reserve The treasury share reserve represents the consideration paid when the employee benefit trust purchases the Companys equity share capital, until the shares are reissued.
Foreign exchange reserve The foreign exchange reserve represents the difference arising from the changes to foreign exchange rates upon assets and liabilities ofoverseas subsidiaries.
Available-for-sale financial assets reserve The available-for-sale financial assets reserve represents the unrealised gain arising on the revaluation of these assets.
Retained earnings Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the Group income statement and pension scheme gains and losses, movement in fair value ofavailable-for-sale financial assets and deferred tax on share-based payments recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Acquisitions during the year LSH Lettings Total 000 000 000 Intangible assets 37,157 4,839 41,996 Property, plant and equipment 766 525 1,291 Trade and other receivables 18,452 839 19,291 Cash and cash equivalents 305 1,277 972 Trade and other payables 14,532 6,763 21,295 Corporation tax 2 371 369 Deferred tax 6,310 872 7,182 Finance leases 41 41 Trade and other payables over one year 576 576 Provisions 7,040 7,040 Net assets liabilities 28,149 1,102 27,047 Goodwill 3,973 19,344 23,317 Consideration 32,122 18,242 50,364 Settled by: Initial consideration 32,122 16,068 48,190 Deferred consideration 2,174 2,174 32,122 18,242 50,364 Cash paid 32,122 16,068 48,190 Cash and cash equivalents 305 1,277 972 Net cash flow arising from acquisitions 32,427 14,791 47,218 Revenue post-acquisition 16,582 5,341 21,923 Profit post-acquisition 2,054 1,841 3,895 Pro-forma revenue to 31 December 2013 62,692 16,206 78,898 Pro-forma profit to 31 December 2013 3,880 3,697 183 On 1 October 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Lambert Smith Hampton Group Limited, Lambert Smith Hampton Limited LSH, Associated Employers Limited and several non-trading dormant companies within this group.
LSH was acquired in accordance with the Group strategy to grow its Land & New Homes and Residential Development & Investment businesses and underpins the growth of the Groups Land & New Homes businesses and estate agency opportunities driven by LSHs pipeline of future mixed-use developments which include residential units.
The stronger links between the residential and commercial activities will strengthen Countrywides businesses going forward and will contribute to the overall synergies anticipated which underpin the goodwill recognised.
101 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 28.
Acquisitions during the year continued During 2013 the Group completed the purchase of 28 lettings businesses in accordance with a strategy to increase the Groups footprint inunder-represented geographical areas.
The most significant lettings acquisitions were as follows: on 1 February the Group acquired 100% ofthe equity share capital of Russells Limited for consideration of 1.9 million: on 15 November 2013 the Group acquired the trade and assetsof John German Limited for consideration of 2.1 million: andon1December 2013 the Group acquired 100% of the equity share capitalof Fitz-Gibbon Limited for consideration of 2.7 million.
The acquired trade and other receivables for all acquired businesses are all current and their fair value is not materially different.
Furthermore there are no contractual cash flows that are not expected to be collected.
The goodwill recognised by the Group upon acquisition has no impact on tax deductions.
The costs of these acquisitions amounted to 890,000 2012: 377,000 and have been written off to profit and loss disclosed as an exceptional cost see note 10.
Acquisitions during the prior year During the prior year the Group acquired Life and Easy Limited and 13 small lettings businesses.
The total consideration paid was 13.1million and goodwill recognised was 11.6 million.
The pro-forma revenue and EBITDA generated by businesses in 2012 was 8.2 million and 2.3million respectively.
Operating lease commitments minimum lease payments Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases due are as follows: 2013 2012 Vehicles, Vehicles, plant and plant and Property equipment Property equipment 000 000 000 000 Within one year 19,740 16,783 20,286 17,945 Later than one year and less than five years 42,004 14,530 46,505 18,582 After five years 18,964 15,180 80,708 31,313 81,971 36,527 At 31 December 2013, the Group had subleased a number of surplus premises and was entitled to receive rents under non-cancellable leases as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Sub-leases Within one year 905 996 Later than one year and less than five years 1,383 1,953 After five years 1,149 1,364 3,437 4,313 31.
Client monies At 31December 2013, client monies held by subsidiaries in approved bank and building society accounts amounted to 248,995,000 2012:158,453,000.
Neither the cash asset nor any corresponding obligation has been recognised by the Group.
These client monies are subject to the following regulations: 20,956,000 Council for Licenced Conveyancers: and 228,039,000 Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors.
102 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Financial instruments Financial instruments by category 31 December 2013 Loans and Available for receivables sale Total Assets as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Available-for-sale financial assets 42,877 42,877 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 73,468 73,468 Cash and cash equivalents 36,325 36,325 109,793 42,877 152,670 31 December 2013 Liabilities at Other financial fair value through liabilities at profit and loss amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 74,040 74,040 Finance lease liabilities 10,704 10,704 Put options 4,955 4,955 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 77,274 77,274 4,955 162,018 166,973 31 December 2012 Loans and Available receivables for sale Total Assets as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Available-for-sale financial assets 14,370 14,370 Trade and other receivables excluding prepayments 53,000 53,000 Cash and cash equivalents 46,544 46,544 99,544 14,370 113,914 31 December 2012 Liabilities at Other financial fair value through liabilities at profit and loss amortised cost Total Liabilities as per balance sheet 000 000 000 Borrowings excluding finance lease liabilities 249,774 249,774 Finance lease liabilities 371 371 Put options 5,560 5,560 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 39,950 39,950 5,560 290,095 295,655 103 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 33.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Group is exposed through its operations to one or more of the following financial risks: cash flow and fair value interest rate risk: Y liquidity risk: Y counterparty credit risk: and Y price risk.
Y The policy for managing these risks is set by the Board following recommendations from the chief finance officer.
Certain risks are managed centrally, while others are managed locally following guidelines communicated from the centre.
The policy for each of the above risks is described inmore detail below.
Cash flow and fair value interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long term borrowings.
Borrowings issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk which is partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
Borrowings issued at fixed rates expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The interest profile of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Floating rate assets 13,822 29,044 Fixed rate assets 22,503 17,500 Interest free assets 116,345 67,370 Total financial assets 152,670 113,914 Floating rate liabilities 73,040 Fixed rate liabilities 10,704 250,000 Interest free liabilities 83,229 45,655 Total financial liabilities 166,973 295,655 The average rate at which the fixed rate liabilities were fixed in 2013 was 3.59% 2012: 10% and the average period for which the liabilities were fixed was 180 days 2012: 366 days.
There is no material difference between the book and the fair values of the financial assets and liabilities.
The interest payable on the Senior Secured Fixed Rate Notes was fixed: therefore, the Group was not exposed to the risk of cash flow risk arising from changes in the interest rates.
The interest payable on the term loan facility is at variable rates.
The Groups exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Groups liabilities secured on a floating basis which are managed on a central basis.
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on the portion of liabilities exposed to the floating rates.
2013 2012 000 000 Increase in basis points 100 100 Effect on profit before tax 000 750 99 Decrease in basis points 50 50 Effect on profit before tax 000 375 50 104 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Financial risk management continued Financial risk factors continued Liquidity risk The liquidity risk of each Group entity is managed centrally by the Group treasury function who monitor rolling forecasts of the Groups liquidity requirements to ensure it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs whilst maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generation of its operations and acquisition strategy.
Acquisitions are carefully selected with authorisation limits operating up to Group Board level and cash payback periods as applied as part of the investment appraisal process.
TheGroup is also cash generative as demonstrated by the cash from operations.
The requirement to pay creditors is managed through future cash generation and, if required, revolving credit facility.
The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds by daily cash reporting.
This reporting considers maturity of both its financial investments andfinancial assets e. g. trade receivables and other financial assets and projected cash flows from operations.
The Groups objective istomaintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility for potential acquisitions.
All surplus cash held by the operating entities is transferred to Group treasury and managed centrally to maximise the returns on deposits through economies of scale.
The type of cash instrument used and its maturity date will depend on the Groups forecast cash requirements.
TheGroup maintains an overdraft facility with a major banking corporation to manage any unexpected short term cash shortfalls.
The Group has a 75 million term loan facility which incurs interest payments quarterly.
The Group also has a 25 million revolving credit facility which provides additional liquidity resource.
The Groups discounted financial liabilities at the year end are as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Trade payables 13,625 15,290 Put options 4,955 5,560 Deferred consideration 2,174 1,768 Borrowings 74,040 249,774 Finance lease liabilities 10,704 371 Accruals and other payables 61,475 22,892 166,973 295,655 The table below analyses the Groups financial liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows.
2013 2012 000 000 In less than one year 85,579 40,322 In more than one year but not more than two years 12,048 1,800 In more than two years but less than three years 23,202 In more than three years but not more than four years 46,123 3,850 In more than four years but less than five years 1,333 Over five years 1,592 251,000 169,877 296,972 Counterparty credit risk The Groups financial assets at the year end are as follows: 2013 2012 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 36,325 46,544 Trade receivables 63,452 43,427 Amounts due from customers for contract work 1,346 Other receivables 8,670 9,573 109,793 99,544 As stated in note 17 trade and other receivables are current assets and expected to convert to cash over the next twelve months.
105 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 33.
Financial risk management continued Financial risk factors continued Counterparty credit risk continued The Group is exposed to credit risk from credit sales.
It is Group policy, implemented locally, to assess the credit risk of major new customers before entering contracts.
The majority of customers use the Groups services as part of a housing transaction and consequently the sales are paid from the proceeds of the house sale.
The following table presents a breakdown of the gross trade receivables between the three main typesof customer: 2013 2012 000 000 Individual customers 41,076 27,995 Major lenders 9,899 11,391 Other commercial customers 16,325 9,034 67,300 48,420 The Group treasury function manages the Groups cash balances and seeks to achieve reasonable rates of interest, but preservation of the capital is the overriding priority.
A list of accepted deposit institutions is maintained and their credit ratings are kept under review.
The following table presents a breakdown of cash at bank and short term deposits the rest of cash and cash equivalents is cash in hand : 2013 2012 000 000 A2 9,922 15,000 A3 26,375 7,500 BA1 28 16,044 BA2 8,000 36,325 46,544 Price risk The group is exposed to price risk because of investments held by the Group and classified on the consolidated balance sheet as available-for-sale amounting to 42,877,000 2012:14,370,000.
This investment is not held in a publicly traded company, but if the price used in the 2013 year-end valuation had increased decreased by 5% the carrying value of the investment and the unrealised gain recorded within the statement of comprehensive income would have reduced by 2.1 million.
Capital management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns forshareholders and other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of debt subject to certain restrictions under the term loan facility, adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group defines capital as the total of equity shareholders funds and long term borrowings net of available cash balances: 2013 2012 000 000 Borrowings note 20 84,744 250,145 Cash and cash equivalents note 18 36,325 46,544 Net debt 48,419 203,601 Shareholders equity 520,723 241,798 Total capital 569,142 445,399 Gearing ratio 9% 46% During the year, the Group have complied with any capital restrictions and covenant requirements in respect of leverage and interest cover ratios associated with the term loan facility.
Fair value estimation The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined below: Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
106 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Financial risk management continued Fair value estimation continued The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at each year end.
See note 16 c fordisclosures in respect of available-for-sale financial assets.
2013 2012 Level 3 Total Level 3 Total 000 000 000 000 Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 42,877 42,877 14,370 14,370 Liabilities Put options 4,955 4,955 5,560 5,560 The following changes were made in level 3 instruments for the years under review: 2013 2012 Assets available Assets available for sale Liabilities for sale Liabilities 000 000 000 000 Opening balance 14,370 5,560 317 8,389 Acquisitions 1,054 13,122 Gains and losses recognised in profit or loss 22 605 22 2,829 Gains and losses recognised in total comprehensive income 27,475 953 Closing balance 42,877 4,955 14,370 5,560 As noted in note 16 c, the fair value of the Zoopla shares was assessed at the year end by reference to the recent transaction price paid for additional shares purchased in December 2013 by the Group and other shareholders in Zoopla.
In addition, other valuation methods were used to support the valuation adopted: a discounted cash flow was prepared and an appropriate discount rate was applied to reflect the fact that there is no liquid market for these shares which are also subject to pre-exemption rights and restrictions up to 2015 : and a valuation using an earnings multiple was undertaken.
The year-end valuation was reviewed in light of available data at 31 December 2013, and resulted in a 27.5million uplift in valuation.
As noted in note 19, the fair value of put options is undertaken using a discounted cash flow based on managements expectation of performance ofthe underlying entities, consistent with operating plans approved.
These methods continue to be based on unobservable market data, and therefore there have been no changes in valuation techniques adopted in the year and no changes in fair value hierarchies as defined by IFRS 13.
The Groups finance department performs the valuations of financial instruments measured at fair value required for financial reporting purposes, including Level 3 fair values.
This team reports directly to the CFO and Audit Committee.
107 FINANCIALS COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 34.
Related party transactions Key management compensation is given in note 6 b.
Other related party transactions are as follows: Trading transactions Transaction amount Balanceowed owing 2013 2012 2013 2012 Related party relationship Transaction type 000 000 000 000 Joint venture Purchases by Group 2,190 2,278 183 97 Joint venture Rebate received 975 1,059 32 Joint venture Dividend received 778 748 Apollo Management Management fee paid 180 750 Apollo Management Directors fee paid 19 Oaktree Capital Management Management fee paid 180 750 Oaktree Capital Management Directors fee paid 35 10 With the exception of dividends and management fees, these transactions are trading relationships which are made at market value.
The company has not made any provision for bad or doubtful debts in respect of related party debtors nor has any guarantee been given during 2013 regarding related party transactions.
Prior to the IPO, Oaktree Capital Management and Apollo Management LP both owned in excess of 20% of the share capital of the Group.
Following the IPO, each entity had a director on the board of the Company until Apollo Management LP divested their shareholding in the second half of 2013.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group incurred 359,000 2012: 1,500,000 split equally between Apollo Management and Oaktree Capital Management, in respect of management fees.
Following the IPO, management fees have not been incurred but fees have been payable in respect of each of the respective directors appointed to the Board at a rate of 40,000 per annum.
Events after the reporting period During the first few weeks of the year the Group has acquired 6 businesses for 15.1 million.
At the time of preparing these financial statements, management is in the process of assessing the impact of these acquisitions on the Group.
The Group has also invested 7.0 million in the first rental property investment for our private residential sector portfolio.
The Group debt facility has also been restructured in February 2014, resulting in an increase in the facility and reduction in interest margins payable.
For further details please refer to the group financial review within the strategic report.
