161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4.
qxp 18 07 2013 10:33 Page 29 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant Accounting Policies Daejan Holdings PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2013 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issuance on 17 July 2013. a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 49 to 52. b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, the Companys functional currency and the Groups presentational currency, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: investment property, derivative financial instruments, fixed rate loans and borrowings and current asset investments.
The accounting policies set out in this Note 1 have been applied consistently throughout the Group to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements, except as described below.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations became effective for the year ended 31 March 2013 but none of these had a material effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except for Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Amendments to IAS 12, as set out below.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been announced but are not yet effective for the year ended 31 March 2013, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
With effect from 1 April 2012, the Group has adopted Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Amendments to IAS 12 and changed its accounting policy on measuring deferred tax arising from investment property that is measured using the fair value model in IAS 40 Investment Property.
Under those amendments to IAS 12, any deferred tax arising from investment property is to be measured using a rebuttable presumption that the carrying amount of that property will be recovered entirely through sale.
This presumption may be rebutted if the property is depreciable and held within a business model whose objective is to consume substantially all of the economic benefits over the life of the asset.
The Directors recognise there is a need to adopt policies which provide comparability with general market practice, which is generally to assume recovery through sale, and also to reflect that, notwithstanding the long term nature of the Groups investment activity, each of the Groups investment properties are considered to be potentially for sale in the right circumstances.
Accordingly, the Group now measures any deferred tax arising from the revaluation of investment property on the assumption that the carrying amount will be recovered through sale, i. e. after taking account of indexation.
Previously the Group measured any such deferred tax on the basis of recovery through use, i. e. without taking account of indexation.
This change in accounting policy has been applied retrospectively.
This has had the effect of reducing the deferred tax liability and increasing retained earnings in the consolidated balance sheet as at 1 April 2011 by 44.9 million.
The effect on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Page 29
