161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4.
qxp 18 07 2013 10:33 Page 29 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Significant Accounting Policies Daejan Holdings PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2013 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The consolidated financial statements were authorised for issuance on 17 July 2013. a Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Company has elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP and these are presented on pages 49 to 52. b Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, the Companys functional currency and the Groups presentational currency, rounded to the nearest thousand.
They are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: investment property, derivative financial instruments, fixed rate loans and borrowings and current asset investments.
The accounting policies set out in this Note 1 have been applied consistently throughout the Group to all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements, except as described below.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations became effective for the year ended 31 March 2013 but none of these had a material effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group, except for Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Amendments to IAS 12, as set out below.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been announced but are not yet effective for the year ended 31 March 2013, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
With effect from 1 April 2012, the Group has adopted Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets Amendments to IAS 12 and changed its accounting policy on measuring deferred tax arising from investment property that is measured using the fair value model in IAS 40 Investment Property.
Under those amendments to IAS 12, any deferred tax arising from investment property is to be measured using a rebuttable presumption that the carrying amount of that property will be recovered entirely through sale.
This presumption may be rebutted if the property is depreciable and held within a business model whose objective is to consume substantially all of the economic benefits over the life of the asset.
The Directors recognise there is a need to adopt policies which provide comparability with general market practice, which is generally to assume recovery through sale, and also to reflect that, notwithstanding the long term nature of the Groups investment activity, each of the Groups investment properties are considered to be potentially for sale in the right circumstances.
Accordingly, the Group now measures any deferred tax arising from the revaluation of investment property on the assumption that the carrying amount will be recovered through sale, i. e. after taking account of indexation.
Previously the Group measured any such deferred tax on the basis of recovery through use, i. e. without taking account of indexation.
This change in accounting policy has been applied retrospectively.
This has had the effect of reducing the deferred tax liability and increasing retained earnings in the consolidated balance sheet as at 1 April 2011 by 44.9 million.
The effect on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income Page 29 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4.
qxp 18 07 2013 10:33 Page 30 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued and the consolidated balance sheet in the current year has been to recognise a tax credit of 2.6 million 2012: 3.1 million tax expense with a corresponding decrease 2012: increase in deferred tax liability.
The effect of this change on basic and diluted earnings per share in the current year has been an increase of 0.16 2012: 0.19 decrease.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as explained in the Corporate Governance section on pages 20 and 21.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the events or amounts involved, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of complexity, judgement or estimation are set out in Note 1 u below.
c Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that presently are exercisable are taken into account.
d Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
e Income available for distribution Under the articles of association of certain Group investment undertakings, realised capital surpluses are not available for distribution as dividends.
f Foreign currency translation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on re-translation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity.
The cumulative translation difference for all foreign operations was deemed to be zero as at the date of transition to IFRS.
The year end and average rates used for these purposes were as follows: Year end Average 2013 2012 2013 2012 US Dollar 1.52 1.60 1.58 1.60 g Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to interest rate risk arising from operational and financing activities.
As these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, they are accounted for as trading instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised, and subsequently recorded, at fair value.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would recover or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the credit worthiness of the swap counterparties.
The gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Page 30 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4.
qxp 18 07 2013 10:33 Page 31 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 h Investment property IFRS defines investment properties as those which are held either to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or both.
All of the Groups property falls within this definition.
Investment property is initially recognised at cost and subsequently recorded at fair value.
External, independent valuation firms having appropriate recognised professional qualifications and recent relevant experience in the location and category of property being valued, value the portfolio annually at the Companys year end.
The fair values are based on market values, being the estimated amount for which a property could be exchanged on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
The valuations are prepared either by considering the aggregate of the net annual rent receivable from the properties using a market yield which reflects the risks inherent in the net cash flow which is then applied to the net annual rents, or on a sales comparison basis.
Any gains or losses arising from a change in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
When the Group begins to redevelop an existing investment property for continued future use as an investment property, the property continues to be treated as an investment property, and is measured based on the fair value model.
Interest is capitalised on such developments to the extent that such interest is directly attributable to the cost of redevelopment.
A property interest under an operating lease is classified and accounted for as an investment property on a property-by-property basis when the Group holds it to earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both.
Any such property interest under an operating lease classified as an investment property is carried at fair value.
Where material, the aggregate present value of the minimum future lease payments under such leases is recognised as a liability.
When the Group uses a part of a property it owns and retains the remainder to generate rental income or capital appreciation, the extent of the Groups utilisation is considered to determine the classification of the property.
If the Groups utilisation is less than five per cent.
this is regarded as immaterial such that the whole property is classified as an investment property and stated at fair value.
Acquisitions and disposals are recognised on the date that the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred.
Any resulting gain or loss based on the difference between sale proceeds and valuation is included in the income statement and taxation applicable thereto is shown as part of the taxation charge.
i Current investments Investments comprise equity securities held for trading and classified as current assets stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
j Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are initially stated at fair value and subsequently carried at cost less an allowance for impairment.
These assets are not discounted as the effect is deemed immaterial.
k Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and short term deposits.
These short term deposits are highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Bank overdrafts have therefore been included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Page 31 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4.
qxp 18 07 2013 10:33 Page 32 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued l Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are approved.
m Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are initially stated at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
n Net rental income Net rental income comprises rent and service charges receivable less applicable provisions and costs associated with the properties.
Rental income from investment property leased out under operating leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives granted are recognised as an integral part of the total rental income.
Service charge income is recognised as the services are provided.
Net rental income is stated net of recoverable VAT.
The cost of repairs is written off to the income statement in the year in which the expenditure occurred.
Lease payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
o Dividend income Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entitys right to receive payments is established which, in the case of quoted securities, is the ex-dividend date.
p Taxation Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities which, in the case of investment property, is assumed to be through sale, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
q Segmental reporting The Company has identified its operating segments on the basis of those components of the Group which engage in business activities from which they may earn revenues and incur expenses and for which discrete financial information is available and regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker in order to allocate resources and assess performance.
The Company has determined the Chief Operating Decision Maker to be the Board of Directors.
r Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, other than investment property see Note 1 h and deferred tax assets see Note 1 p, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists the assets recoverable amount is Page 32 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4.
qxp 18 07 2013 10:33 Page 33 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 estimated and an impairment loss recognised whenever the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and its value-inuse.
The value-in-use is determined as the net present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the asset, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
s Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
t Loans and borrowings Floating rate loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently recorded at amortised cost.
Fixed rate loans and borrowings are initially recognised, and subsequently recorded, at fair value.
In the case of floating rate loans and borrowings, transaction costs are deducted from the fair value at recognition and any differences between the amount initially recognised and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
u Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates The Groups significant accounting policies are set out above.
Not all of these policies require management to make subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
The following is intended to provide further detail relating to those accounting policies that management consider particularly significant because of the level of complexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the consolidated financial statements.
i Property valuations The valuation of the Groups property portfolio is inherently subjective, depending on many factors, including the individual nature of each property, its location and expected future net rental values, market yields and comparable market transactions.
Therefore the valuations are subject to a degree of uncertainty and are made on the basis of assumptions which may not prove to be accurate, particularly in periods of difficult market or economic conditions.
As noted in Note 1 h above, all the Groups properties are valued by external valuers with appropriate qualifications and experience.
ii Income taxes The tax treatment of some transactions and calculations cannot be determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authorities.
In such cases, the Groups policy is to be prudent in its assessment of the relevant tax charge or credit.
Where the final outcome of such matters is different from the amounts initially recorded, those differences will be reflected in the income and deferred taxes amounts at the time of formal resolution.
Additionally, judgement has been exercised in relation to the recognition of deferred tax assets where the utilisation of the underlying tax losses is uncertain.
