161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4 161320 Daejan Holdings Plc R&A 2013 Pt4.
qxp 18 07 2013 10:33 Page 46 Daejan Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued the UK, the Groups policy is not to hedge its residual exposure.
Management monitors exchange rates on a regular basis and elects to transfer funds only when the rate is favourable to do so.
It is estimated that a 10 per cent.
depreciation of the US Dollar against Sterling would cause a decrease in the Sterling value of the Groups USA net assets of 10.4 million.
Capital management The capital structure of the Group consists of equity attributable to equity holders of the parent together with net debt.
This is kept under constant review to ensure the Group has sufficient capital to fund its operations and that the Groups strategy of low gearing is maintained.
The Group seeks to maintain a balance between longer-term finance appropriate to fund its long-term investment property holding strategy and cost effectiveness, given availability of debt in the market.
Equity comprises issued share capital, reserves and retained earnings as set out in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Net debt comprises a mix of fixed rate mortgages and shorter-term bank loans as set out in Note 16 and cash and short term deposits as set out in Note 13.
All loans and borrowings are secured against investment property and the bank loans are drawn against committed facilities.
Fair values of financial instruments The Groups financial instruments are either recorded at fair value or their fair values are not materially different from their carrying amounts.
The fair values of fixed rate loans and borrowings and derivative financial instruments recorded in the financial statements, have been determined by discounting the differences between cash flows based on contractual principal and interest amounts and cash flows based on forecast market rates.
As such these measurements are classified as Level 2 as defined by IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The amount of the change in the fair value of the Groups fixed rate loans and borrowings, both during the period and cumulatively, which is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the liability is immaterial.
This has been determined by assessing the amount of change that is not due to changes in market conditions.
Related Party Transactions Day-to-day management of the Groups properties in the UK is mainly carried out by Highdorn Co. Limited and by Freshwater Property Management Limited.
Mr B S E Freshwater and Mr S I Freshwater are Directors of both companies.
They have no beneficial interest in the share capital of Highdorn Co. Limited.
Mr B S E Freshwater, Mr S I Freshwater and Mr D Davis are Directors of the parent company of Freshwater Property Management Limited but have no beneficial interest in either company.
Mr R E Freshwater has a beneficial interest in a trust holding interests in shares in Highdorn Co. Limited.
In their capacity as property managing agents, Highdorn Co. Limited and Freshwater Property Management Limited collect rents and incur direct property expenses on behalf of the Group.
At 31 March 2013, the aggregate net amounts due to the Group from Highdorn Co. Limited and Freshwater Property Management Limited in relation to such agency receipts and payments was 3.8 million 2012 5.8 million.
These amounts are not secured and are payable on demand.
No guarantees have been given or received and the amounts are settled in cash.
