OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Activities of the Group In addition to the power under the Act for shareholders to remove any The Company is the holding company of the Group.
The Groups Director by ordinary resolution upon the giving of special notice, under principal activities comprise acquiring and developing land, planning, the Articles the Company may by special resolution remove any Director designing and constructing residential property developments and before the expiration of his her term of of ce.
The of ce of Director shall selling the homes it builds.
These core activities are supported by the be vacated if: i he she resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolves Groups commercial development, urban regeneration, procurement, to accept such offer: ii his her resignation is requested by all of the other design and strategic land capabilities.
Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: iii he she is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health: iv Results and dividends he she is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the The pro t from continuing activities for the year ended 30 June 2013 Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his her was 75.0m 2012: 67.4m.
of ce is vacated: v he she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his her creditors generally: vi he she is prohibited by law from being a No interim dividend was paid during the financial year 2012: nil.
Director: vii he she ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Act: or viii The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 2.5 pence he she is removed from of ce pursuant to the Articles.
per share on 20 November 2013 in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of business Details relating to the retirement and re-election of Directors at each on 25 October 2013 2012: nil.
AGM can be found on page 49 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Enhanced Business Review Powers of the Directors The Chairmans Statement, Group Chief Executives Review, Business Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by special resolution, Review and Group Finance Directors Review on pages 6 to 39 the business of the Company is ultimately managed by the Board who may together comprise the Groups Enhanced Business Review.
exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or otherwise.
In particular, the Board may Annual General Meeting exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage The 2013 AGM will be held at The British Medical Association, BMA House, or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and Tavistock Square, London WC1H 9JP on Wednesday 13 November 2013 to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, at 2.30 p. m. The Notice convening the 2013 AGM is set out in a separate liability or obligation of the Company to any third party.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions Directors and their interests As at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, there are qualifying Each of the Directors listed on pages 40 and 41 held of ce throughout third party indemnity provisions governed by the Act in place under the financial year and as at 30 June 2013, apart from Nina Bibby who which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, former joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 3 December 2012.
Directors and the Company Secretary of the Company, together with Clive Fenton resigned as a Director with immediate effect on 5 July those who have held or hold these positions as of cers of other Group 2012 and Bob Davies stepped down from his position as a Noncompanies or of associate or af liated companies and members of the Executive Director of the Company on 14 November 2012.
As Executive Committee, to the extent permitted by law and the Articles, announced on 11 September 2013 Rod MacEachrane will step down against all liability arising in respect of any act or omission in the course from his position as a Non-Executive Director of the Company at the of performing their duties.
In addition the Company maintains directors 2013 AGM.
and of cers liability insurance for each Director of the Group and its associated companies.
The bene cial interests of the Directors and connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the Company together with the interests No Director of the Company or of any associated company shall of the Executive Directors in share options and awards of shares as be accountable to the Company or the members for any bene t at 30 June 2013 and as at the date of this report are disclosed in the provided pursuant to the Articles and receipt of any such bene t Remuneration Report on page 78. shall not disqualify any person from being or becoming a Director of the Company.
At no time during or at the end of the year did any Director have a material interest in a contract of signi cance in relation to the business of the Group.
Related party transactions The Board and certain members of senior management are related Appointment and replacement of Directors parties within the fide nition of IAS 24 Revised Related Party Disclosures In accordance with the Articles there shall be no less than two and no IAS 24 and the Board are related parties within the fide nition of Chapter more than 15 Directors appointed to the Board at any one time.
Directors 11 of the UK Listing Rules Chapter 11.
There is no difference between may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
transactions with key personnel of the Company and transactions with key The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold personnel of the Group.
employment or executive of ce for such period subject to the Act and on such terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such During the year, the Company entered into the following transaction which, appointment.
Directors are not subject to a maximum age limit.
for the purposes of IAS 24 is considered to be a related party transaction.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79
