REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION calculation of the weighted average number of shares used to calculate Each of the note purchase agreements entered into in respect of EPS until such time as they are vested to the relevant employee.
the Groups privately placed notes being the US$80m of notes issued pursuant to the following note purchase agreements: i a note The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares purchase agreement in respect of the issue of US$15m notes dated held in the EBT in any way they think t and in doing so may take into 10 May 2011 as amended and restated on 14 May 2013 : and ii a account both financial and nonfinancial interests of the bene ciaries note purchase agreement in respect of the issue of US$65m notes of the EBT or their dependants.
also dated 10 May 2011 as amended and restated on 14 May 2013 contain a change of control prepayment provision.
Each such control Risk management objectives provision provides that promptly after the Company becomes aware The principal operational risks of the business are detailed on pages that a change of control has occurred, the Company shall notify all 36 to 39.
The Groups financial assets, financial liabilities and derivative the holders of the notes of the same and give the noteholders financial instruments are detailed in notes 23, 24 and 25 to the financial the option to require the Company to prepay at par all outstanding statements.
Details of the Groups liquidity, market price, credit and amounts principal and interest under the notes.
If a noteholder cash ow risks are set out in note 26 to the financial statements.
accepts such offer of prepayment, such prepayment shall take place on a date that is not more than 90 business days after the Company Research & development and likely future developments noti ed the noteholders of the change of control.
For these purposes An indication of likely future developments in the Group including in the a change of control means the acquisition by a person or a group eld of research and development is given in the Business Review on of persons acting in concert as fide ned in the City Code on pages 18 to 29.
Takeovers and Mergers such that they gain bene cial ownership of more than 50 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company.
Creditor payments The 100m term facility agreement between, amongst others, the The Group is responsible for agreeing the detail of terms and conditions Company and Prudential M&G UK Companies Financing Fund LP relating to transactions with its suppliers.
It is Group policy to ensure that dated 10 May 2011 as amended and restated on 14 May 2013 suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the agreed also contains a prepayment provision on a change of control at terms of payment with suppliers where the goods and services have been the election of each lender: such prepayment provision is the same supplied in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions of contract.
as that described for the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement.
Implementation of this policy resulted in a supplier payment period by the Each of the debt facility agreements based on a pro forma agreement Group of 13 days 2012: 29 days for its trade creditors as at 30 June 2013. agreed in October 2012 between the Company as guarantor, BDW Trading Limited BDW as borrower and developer and the Homes Employee share schemes and Communities Agency HCA as lender, whereby the HCA has Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 29 to the made up to 33m in aggregate of project nancing available financial statements.
to fund up to 20 development sites, contains a provision requiring BDW to obtain the consent of the HCA on a change in control of the Signi cant agreements Company, BDW or any of their holding companies if relevant.
The The following signi cant agreements contain provisions entitling the HCA is entitled to withhold its consent to such a change in control counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of if the new controller does not have suf cient reputation, financial a change of control of the Company: standing or organisational standing and capacity.
A failure to: i obtain The revolving credit facility agreement dated 14 May 2013 made the HCAs consent to a change in control: and ii provide the HCA between, amongst others, the Company, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc with notice of the change in control within a speci ed time period, as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named is an event of default under each of these agreements.
On such an therein as lenders the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement event of default the HCA may, by notice in writing to BDW, terminate contains a prepayment provision at the election of each lender each debt facility agreement and require BDW to prepay the project on change of control.
The Company must notify the facility agent nancing.
For these purposes a change in control means the promptly upon becoming aware of the change of control.
After the acquisition by a person or a group of persons acting together such occurrence of a change of control, the facility agent shall if a lender that they gain bene cial ownership of more than 50 per cent of the so requests within 20 days of being noti ed of the change of control issued share capital of the relevant company, have the right to appoint by notice to the Company, on the date falling 30 days after the the majority of the directors of the relevant company or otherwise change of control, cancel the commitment of such lender under control the votes at board meetings of the relevant company.
the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement and declare all amounts outstanding in respect of such lender under the Revolving Credit The note purchase agreements also impose upon the holders customary Facility Agreement immediately due and payable.
The Revolving restrictions on resale or transfer of the notes, such as the transfer being Credit Facility Agreement also contains a provision such that, subject to a fide minimis amount.
following a change of control, a lender is not obliged to fund any further drawdown of the facility.
For these purposes, a change On behalf of the Board of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert as fide ned in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers gains control as fide ned in the Corporation Tax Act 2010 of Tom Keevil the Company.
GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY 10 September 2013 82 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
