Contingent liabilities a Contingent liabilities related to subsidiaries The Company has guaranteed certain bank borrowings of its subsidiary undertakings.
Certain subsidiary undertakings have commitments for the purchase of trading stock entered into in the normal course of business.
In the normal course of business, the Group has given counter indemnities in respect of performance bonds and financial guarantees.
Management estimate that the bonds and guarantees amount to 447.5m 2012: 424.8m, and con rm that at the date of these financial statements the possibility of cash out ow is considered minimal and no provision is required.
b Contingent liabilities related to joint ventures At 30 June 2013, the Group has an obligation to repay 0.9m 2012: 0.9m of grant monies received by a joint venture upon certain future disposals of land.
During the year, the Group provided bank guarantees to the value of 2.6m 2012: nil to one of its joint ventures.
The Group also has a number of performance guarantees in respect of its joint ventures, requiring the Group to complete development agreement contractual obligations in the event that the joint ventures do not perform their obligations under the terms of the related contracts.
c Contingent liabilities related to associates During the year, the Group provided bank guarantees to the value of nil 2012: 2.8m to one of its associates.
d Contingent liabilities related to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Provision is made for the Directors best estimate of all known material legal claims and all legal actions in progress.
The Group takes legal advice as to the likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made other than for legal costs where the Directors consider, based on such advice, that claims or actions are unlikely to succeed, or a suf ciently reliable estimate of the potential obligations cannot be made.
Barratt American Incorporated A former indirect subsidiary of the Company, Barratt American Incorporated American, is one of a number of defendants in a construction defect claim commenced in California.
The Company has also been named as a defendant in this construction defect claim, as well as in a separate class action claim which arises out of the same alleged facts.
American was sold in August 2004 and subsequently became insolvent, although it has signi cant insurance and is represented by counsel.
The majority of the events in issue in the construction case post-date the 2004 sale of American and the Company asserts that it had no involvement in these post-sale events.
The Company and the Directors believe that the Company has good defences to this claim, although the outcome remains uncertain and may not be known for some time, as no trial date has yet been set.
The Company has been successful in having the claims against it in the separate class action dismissed, although the plaintiffs in that case have appealed against the dismissal of their claims.
That appeal will be considered by the California Court of Appeal and the outcome will also not be known for some time.
Related party transactions a Remuneration of key personnel Disclosures related to the remuneration of key personnel as fide ned in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures are given in note 9.
There is no difference between transactions with key management personnel of the Company and the Group.
b Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries The Company has entered into transactions with its subsidiary undertakings in respect of funding and Group services which include management accounting and audit, sales and marketing, IT, company secretarial, architects and purchasing.
Recharges are made to the subsidiaries based on utilisation of these services.
The amount outstanding to the Company from subsidiary undertakings at 30 June 2013 totalled 969.6m 2012: 556.4m.
During the year ended 30 June 2013, the Company made management charges to subsidiaries of 44.3m 2012: 33.9m and received net interest on Group loans from subsidiaries of 32.3m 2012: 25.4m.
The Company and Group have entered into counter-indemnities in the normal course of business in respect of performance bonds.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 143
