No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class justi es their payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or other sum to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses then payable by them in respect of that share remains unpaid or if they arising from the payment of interim or xed dividends on other shares.
have been served with a restriction notice as fide ned in the Articles The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or after failure to provide the Company with information concerning other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
with a 0.25% interest if such person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning Transfer of shares interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
Shares in the Company may be in uncerti cated or certi cated form.
Title to uncerti cated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant Major shareholders system and certi cated shares may be transferred by an instrument of In accordance with the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules transfer as approved by the Board.
The transferor of a share is deemed the DTRs all noti cations received by the Company are published to remain the holder until the transferees name is entered into the on the Companys website www.
co. uk and via Companys register of members.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares except as follows.
As at 30 June 2013 the persons set out in Table 21 have noti ed the The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any Company, pursuant to DTR 5.1, of their interests in the voting rights reason, decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully in the Companys issued share capital.
Registration of a transfer of an uncerti cated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncerti cated securities Table 21 Noti able Interests rules as fide ned in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer % of total % of total to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncerti cated issued share issued share share is to be transferred exceeds four.
The Board may decline to Number of capital when capital as at Nature of Name voting rights noti ed 30.06.2013 holding register a transfer of a certi cated share unless the instrument of FMR LLC 34,579,199 8.24 3.53 Indirect transfer: i is duly stamped or certi ed or otherwise shown to the Blackrock, Inc 48,992,917 5.01 5.00 Indirect satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certi cate and such other evidence JP Morgan Chase & Co 17,286,656 4.98 1.77 Indirect of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in Standard Life Direct & respect of only one class of share: and iii if joint transferees, is in Investments Ltd 47,711,714 4.94 4.87 Indirect favour of not more than four such transferees: or iv where the transfer Ruffer LLP 46,887,233 4.80 4.79 Direct is requested by a person with a 0.25% interest as fide ned in the Polaris Capital Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice Management after failure to provide the Company with information concerning LLC 34,606,679 3.59 3.53 Indirect interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act, Represents the number of voting rights last noti ed to the Company by the respective unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms shareholder in accordance with DTR 5.1.
Certain of such noti cations pre-date the Companys Placing and Rights Issue in 2009 and may not re ect the relevant length sale as fide ned in the Articles.
shareholders holding following the equity issue, where the revised holding has not triggered a further noti cation requirement.
Shareholder authority for purchase of own shares Based on the Total Voting Rights as at the relevant noti cation dates.
Based on the Total Voting Rights as at 30 June 2013 as announced on 1 July 2013 and, At the Companys AGM held on 14 November 2012, shareholders accordingly, may not accurately re ect the position in respect of those shareholders gave authority to the Company to buy back up to an aggregate of whose noti cations preceded the Placing and Rights Issue as referred to above.
97,697,940 ordinary shares representing 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
This authority is valid until the end of the 2013 AGM or, Between 1 July 2013 and 10 September 2013 no changes in respect if earlier, until the close of business on 13 February 2014.
Under the of interests in the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital authority there is a minimum and maximum price to be paid for such have been noti ed to the Company.
Any shares which are bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, will be cancelled immediately upon completion The Total Voting Rights of the Company as at the date of this of the purchase, thereby reducing the Companys issued share capital.
Annual Report and Accounts, as announced on 2 September 2013, are 979,881,605.
No purchases had been made under this authority as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
A resolution renewing the Shareholder arrangements to waive dividends authority will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
The Barratt Developments Employee Bene t Trust the EBT holds ordinary shares in the Company for the purpose of satisfying options Dividends and distributions and awards that have been granted under the various employee share Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by ordinary schemes operated by the Company.
Details of the shares so held are resolution from time to time declare dividends for payment to the set out in note 28 to the financial statements.
holders of the ordinary shares of 10 pence each, of an amount which does not exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board The EBT has agreed to waive all or any future right to dividend payments may pay interim dividends, and also any xed rate dividend, whenever on shares held within the EBT and these shares do not count in the the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81
