ACCOUNTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IMPACT OF STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS IN ISSUE BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE IMPACT OF STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS IN ISSUE BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE At the date of approval of these financial statements, there were a number of standards, amendments and interpretations that have been published and are therefore mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2013 and later periods.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities, IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, IAS 27 Revised, IAS 28 Revised, Amendment to IFRS 7, Amendment to IAS 1, Amendment to IAS 19 Employee Bene ts, Amendment to IAS 32, Annual Improvements 2009-2011 Cycle and IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine have been adopted by the EU.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as issued in 2009 and subsequently amended in 2010 has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group has not early adopted any standard, amendment or interpretation.
The standards, amendments and interpretations that are expected to have an impact upon the Group are: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is likely to apply to the Group from 1 July 2015.
The standard was reissued in October 2010 as the second step in the IASB project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 2010 now includes new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and financial liabilities and the derecognition of financial instruments.
The IASB is continuing the process of expanding IFRS 9 to add new requirements for impairment and hedge accounting.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on the Groups results and financial position and will continue to assess the impact as the standard is revised by the IASB.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 and fide fines fair value, sets out in a single IFRS a framework for measuring fair value and requires disclosures about fair value measurements.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the standard on the Groups results and financial position.
IAS 19 Revised Employee Bene ts will apply to the Group from 1 July 2013.
It principally revises existing accounting treatment for pensions and other post-employment bene ts and termination bene ts.
If this amendment had been adopted in the current year this would have resulted in an additional interest charge to the Group of 0.3m.
The adoption of the following standards, amendments and interpretations is not expected to have any material impact on the financial statements of the Group: Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.
This amends the disclosure requirements in respect of financial instruments that are set off in accordance with guidance in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
The amendment applies to the Group from 1 January 2013 and is not expected to have an impact upon the Group.
Amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
This amendment provides guidance on the application of offsetting in financial statements.
This is not expected to have an impact on the Group.
Amendment to IAS 1 Government Loans will apply to the Group from 1 January 2013.
This amends IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards to address how a first-time adopter would account for a Government loan with a below-market rate of interest when transitioning to IFRSs.
This amendment is not expected to impact the Group.
The Annual Improvements 2009-2011 Cycle includes amendments to a number of different accounting standards.
These amendments will apply from 1 January 2013.
None of these amendments are expected to impact the Group.
IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Mine will apply to the Group from 1 January 2013.
This will not have an impact on the Group.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 to establish principles for the presentation and preparation of consolidated financial statements when an entity controls one or more other entities.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 and requires that a party to a joint arrangement determines the type of joint arrangement in which it is involved by assessing its rights and obligations and accounts for those rights and obligations in accordance with that type of joint arrangement.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
The new standard was issued in May 2011 and requires the disclosure of information that enables users of financial statements to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, its interests in other entities and the effects of those interests on its financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
IAS 27 Revised Separate Financial Statements will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
IAS 28 Revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures will apply to the Group from 1 July 2014.
98 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
