CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY In accordance with the requirements of IFRS, the Group has detailed below the critical accounting judgements made and the key sources of estimation uncertainty within these financial statements.
Critical accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in the accounting policies note, the Directors have made no individual judgements that have a signi cant impact upon the financial statements, apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt with below.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet dates, are discussed below.
Carrying value of land and work in progress The Groups principal activity is housebuilding and commercial development.
The majority of the development activity is not contracted prior to the development commencing.
Accordingly, the Group has in its balance sheet at 30 June 2013 current assets that are not covered by a forward sale.
The Groups internal controls are designed to identify any developments where the balance sheet value of land and work in progress is more than the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Following the downturn in the market in 2007 08, the Group has conducted ongoing six-monthly reviews of the net realisable value of its land and work in progress.
Where the estimated net realisable value of the site was less than its current carrying value within the balance sheet, the Group has impaired the land and work in progress value.
The provisions remaining are set out in the table below: Commercial Housebuilding developments Total Land impairment remaining m m m At 1 July 2011 175.7 19.1 194.8 Charge in the year 6.6 6.6 Utilised 70.1 0.5 70.6 At 30 June 2012 112.2 18.6 130.8 Charge in the year 3.2 0.5 3.7 Utilised 39.9 11.6 51.5 At 30 June 2013 75.5 7.5 83.0 During the year, due to performance variations upon individual housebuilding sites, there were gross impairment charges of 34.8m 2012: 44.8m and gross impairment reversals of 22.5m 2012: 31.5m resulting in a net inventory impairment of 12.3m 2012: 13.3m included within pro t from operations of which 3.2m 2012: 6.6m relates to sites which have previously been impaired.
There was also a gross impairment charge of 0.6m 2012: 3.3m and a gross impairment reversal of 0.1m 2012: 3.3m for the commercial developments business, resulting in a net inventory impairment of 0.5m 2012: nil, due to performance variations upon individual commercial sites.
The key judgements in these reviews were estimating the realisable value of a site which is determined by forecast sales rates, expected sales prices and estimated costs to complete.
Sales prices were estimated on a site-by-site basis based upon local market conditions and took into account the current prices being achieved upon each site for each product type.
In addition, the estimation of future sales prices included an allowance on a site-by-site basis for low single-digit sales price in ation in future periods.
The estimation of costs to complete also included an allowance for low single-digit build costs in ation in future periods.
At 30 June 2013, the Group had a total land holding of 2,127.0m, of which 2,003.9m is land held for current housing development.
Of this 189.6m is made up of impaired land, 473.5m consists of non-impaired land purchased prior to mid-2009 where the gross margin is on average c. 8%, and the remaining 1,340.8m has an average gross margin of over 20% based on current house prices.
During the year, the Group has experienced stable market conditions in the first three quarters of the financial year and signs of sustainable improvement in the final quarter.
If the UK housing market were to change beyond management expectations in the future, in particular with regards to the assumptions around likely sales prices and estimated costs to complete, further adjustments to the carrying value of land and work in progress may be required.
The land held at the balance sheet date that has already been impaired is most sensitive to the judgements being applied and the potential for further impairment or reversal.
Forecasting risk also increases in relation to those sites that are not expected to be realised in the short to medium term.
The Groups current forecasts indicate that, by volume, around 46% of the impaired plots are expected to be realised within one year, 20% between one and two years, and 34% in more than two years.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 ACCOUNTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The Group estimates that the impairment sensitivity for the housebuilding business to an immediate uniform fall in house prices across the UK, from those prevailing as at 30 June 2013, is as follows: Uniform fall in national house prices Indicative impairment % m 5103 10 171 These estimates are illustrative as any changes in house prices have historically tended to be weighted either positively or negatively towards particular geographic regions of the UK, and they exclude any sensitivity upon our commercial developments segment.
In addition, variances in future build cost in ation from that allowed for in the Groups base calculation would have an impact upon the impairment sensitivity.
The value of impairment is prior to attributing any tax credit that may accrue for future use.
Estimation of costs to complete In order to determine the pro t that the Group is able to recognise on its developments in a speci c period, the Group has to allocate site-wide development costs between units built in the current year and in future years.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments.
In making these assessments there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess and review carrying values and appropriateness of estimates made.
Recognition of pro t where developments are accounted for under IAS 11 Construction Contracts The Group applies its policy on contract accounting when recognising revenue and pro t on partially completed contracts.
The application of this policy requires judgements to be made in respect of the total expected costs to complete each site.
The Group has in place established internal control processes to ensure that the evaluation of costs and revenues is based upon appropriate estimates.
Impairment of goodwill The determination of the impairment of goodwill of the housebuilding business requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the housebuilding cash-generating unit as fide ned in note 11.
The value-in-use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash ows expected from the housebuilding business, including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs, and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash ows.
The discount rate used is based upon the average capital structure of the Group and current market assessments of the time value of money and risks appropriate to the Groups housebuilding business.
Changes in these may impact upon the Groups discount rate in future periods.
The carrying amount of goodwill at 30 June 2013 was 792.2m with no impairment recognised during the year ended 30 June 2013.
Impairment of brands The determination of the impairment calculation for the Groups inde nite life brand, David Wilson Homes, requires an estimation of the value-inuse of the brand as fide ned in note 12.
The value-in-use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash ows expected from this brand as part of the review of the carrying value of goodwill, including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs, and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash ows.
The carrying amount of inde nite life brands at 30 June 2013 was 100.0m with no impairment recognised during the year ended 30 June 2013.
Deferred tax assets At 30 June 2013, the Group recognised a net deferred tax asset of 92.1m comprising gross deferred tax assets of 121.1m and gross deferred tax liabilities of 29.0m.
84.7m related to losses that arose during preceding years, predominantly as a result of the re nancing and land impairments, that are to be carried forward and relieved against pro ts arising in future periods.
The judgement to recognise the deferred tax asset is dependent upon taxable pro ts arising in the same company as the losses originally arose and the Groups expectations regarding future pro tability including site revenue and cost forecasts for future years which contain a degree of inherent uncertainty.
fide ned bene t pension scheme The Directors engage a quali ed independent actuary to calculate the Groups liability in respect of its fide ned bene t pension scheme.
In calculating this liability, it is necessary for actuarial assumptions to be made, which include discount rates, salary and pension increases, price in ation, the long-term rate of return upon scheme assets and mortality.
As actual rates of increase and mortality may differ from those assumed, the pension liability may differ from that included in these financial statements.
100 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Hedge accounting The majority of the Groups facilities are oating rate, which exposes the Group to increased interest rate risk.
The Group has in place 137.0m 2012: 192.0m of oating-toxed interest rate swaps.
The Group has adopted hedge accounting for these swaps on the basis that it is highly probable that there is suf cient forecast debt to match with the period of swaps.
If this basis was not met in future any changes in fair value of the swaps would be recognised in the income statement, rather than in equity.
During the year ended 30 June 2013, there was a gain of 6.9m 2012: loss of 16.6m included in equity related to these swaps.
In addition, the Group has US$246.6m 2012: US$267.2m of cross currency swaps to manage the cash ow risks related to foreign exchange, arising from the Groups sources of US Dollar denominated finance.
These swaps are designated as a cash ow hedge against future foreign exchange rate movements.
If the hedges ceased to be highly effective, any changes in fair value of the swaps would be recognised in the income statement, rather than equity.
During the year ended 30 June 2013, there was a gain of 0.7m 2012: 4.6m included in equity related to these swaps.
Non-current available for sale financial assets The Group holds non-current available for sale financial assets principally comprising interest free loans granted as part of sales transactions that are secured by way of a second legal charge on the respective property.
The loans are held at fair value.
The fair value calculation requires an estimate of the future cash ows expected from the redemption of interest free loans, including an estimate of the market value of the property at the estimated time of repayment, and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash ows.
The estimated market value is based on original selling prices and local market conditions with an allowance for low single-digit sales price in ation.
The estimated repayment pro le is based on historical data for first time buyers selling their property.
The discount rate used is consistent with the interest rate payable on a third party second charge loan of a similar amount and duration.
At 30 June 2013, the asset recognised on the balance sheet was 128.4m 2012: 189.2m.
Investment in joint venture holding non-current available for sale financial assets The Group holds a joint venture investment of 25.8m 2012: nil in Rose Shared Equity LLP.
This entity holds non-current available for sale financial assets comprising interest free loans that are secured by way of a second charge on the respective property.
The Groups investment is accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
In line with the Groups other joint venture investments, the carrying value is reviewed at each balance sheet date.
This review requires estimation of the cash ows expected to be received by the Group which is based upon calculation of the fair values of the loans held by the entity including an estimate of future cash ows expected from the redemption of interest free loans, including an estimate of the market value of the property at the estimated time of redemption, and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash ows.
The estimated repayment pro le is based on historic data for first time buyers selling their property.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101
