STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Financial statements and accounting records Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors con rm that, to the best of each persons knowledge: Accounts including the Directors Remuneration Report and the a the Group and Parent Company financial statements in this Annual financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Report and Accounts, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, Standing Interpretation Committee interpretations Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements as adopted and endorsed by the European Union, International for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee interpretations and Accounting Standards Regulation the IAS Regulation to prepare those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies the Group financial statements under International Financial Reporting reporting under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS and have liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the Company also elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in and of the Group taken as a whole: and accordance with IFRS.
The financial statements are also required by b the management report contained in this Annual Report and law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Accounts includes a fair review of the development and performance 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Under the Disclosure and of the business and the position of the Company and the Group Transparency Rules, the Directors must not approve the accounts taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state and uncertainties they face.
of affairs of the Company and of the pro t or loss of the Company for that period.
The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on pages 40 and 41. International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, By order of the Board financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the fide nitions and recognition criteria for assets, Mark Clare David Thomas liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation 10 September 2013 10 September 2013 of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: The Report of the Directors from pages 2 to 83 inclusive was approved properly select and apply accounting policies: by the Board on 10 September 2013 and is signed on its behalf by: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Tom Keevil provide additional disclosures when compliance with the speci c GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL AND COMPANY SECRETARY requirements in IFRS are insuf cient to enable users to understand 10 September 2013 the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83
