REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION In April 2013, the son of Mark Clare, Group Chief Executive, reserved Of ces and exchanged on an apartment from Alie Street LLP, a joint venture The Group had 25 of ces excluding those of ces undertaking an partnership between BDW Trading Limited the Companys main administrative function only located throughout Great Britain at the trading subsidiary and London and Quadrant Housing Trust, at a end of the financial year.
No branches are located outside of the United purchase price of 744,246.
A full list of the Groups of ces and their locations can be outstanding on this transaction, which will become due on legal obtained from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary completion.
Alie Street LLP is not controlled by the Company and at the registered of ce of the Company or from the Companys website is not a subsidiary undertaking of the Company.
This purchase was conducted at a fair and reasonable market price Capital structure based on similar comparable transactions at that time.
The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
All issued shares are in registered On noti cation by Mark Clare of the above transaction, the Board sought form and are fully paid.
Details of the Companys issued share capital advice from its legal advisers and corporate brokers in respect of the and of the movements in the share capital during the year can be application of Chapter 11 and section 190 of the Act Substantial found in note 28 to the financial statements on page 134.
Property Transactions Section 190 to the transaction.
The advice received concluded that Chapter 11 and Section 190 did not extend to Subject to the Articles, the Act and other shareholders rights, LLPs and therefore the provisions of Chapter 11 and Section 190 did not shares are at the disposal of the Board.
At each AGM the Board apply to this transaction.
Consequently, no shareholder approval was seeks authorisation from its shareholders to allot shares.
At the AGM required for this transaction.
held on 14 November 2012, the Directors were given authority to allot shares up to a nominal value of 32,565,981 representing one-third Property, plant and equipment of the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital as at 4 The Directors are of the opinion that the value of land and buildings October 2012, such authority to remain valid until the end of the 2013 included within the Groups property, plant and equipment is in excess AGM or, if earlier, until the close of business on 13 February 2014. of book value but that the difference is not material in relation to the A resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Disclosure of information to auditor Subject to any rights attached to existing shares, shares may be issued So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary information that is, information needed by the Companys auditor in resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does connection with preparing its report of which the Companys auditor not make speci c provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the Act, the Articles specify that rights attached to any Each of the Directors has taken all reasonable steps that he she ought existing class of shares may be varied either with the written consent of to have taken in accordance with his her duty as a Director to make the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This con rmation shares, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions general meeting of the holders of those shares.
The rights conferred of section 418 2 of the Act.
upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied Charitable and political contributions by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
During the year the Group made charitable donations of 40,411 2012: 30,205.
The total amounts given for each charitable purpose were: Voting Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which any shares may Purpose be issued or may at the relevant time be held, every member present in The advancement of education 5,153 person or by proxy at a general meeting or class meeting has one vote The advancement of religion 250 upon a show of hands or, upon a poll vote, one vote for every share of The advancement of health and saving lives 14,619 which such member is a holder.
In the case of joint holders of a share, The advancement of community development 6,399 the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by The advancement of amateur sport 2,448 proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the other joint The relief of those in need because of youth, age, holders and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
disadvantage 6,350 Prevention or relief of poverty 5,053 In accordance with the Act, each member is entitled to appoint one or The promotion of ef ciency of the armed forces 100 more proxies, and in the case of corporations, more than one corporate Any other purposes 39 representative to exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
The timescales No political contributions were made during the year 2012: nil.
for appointing proxies are set out in the Notice of the 2013 AGM.
80 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
