105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 56 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited will be held at expiry of 15 months from the passing of this Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, resolution, whichever is earlier, save that the Channel Islands GY1 3QL on Wednesday, 21 May 2014 at Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or 12.30 pm for the following purposes.
agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted and the Ordinary Business Directors may allot shares or grant Rights in To consider and, if thought t, pass the following as pursuance of such offer or agreement: and Ordinary Resolutions: ii this authority is in substitution for all previous 1.
That the Annual Report and Accounts for the year authorities conferred on the Directors in accordance ended 31 December 2013 be received and approved.
with sections 292 or 293 or otherwise of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended 2.
That the Directors Remuneration Policy be approved.
from time to time but without prejudice to any allotment of shares or grant of Rights already made 3.
That the Annual Report on Directors Remuneration for or offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such the year ended 31 December 2013 be approved.
That Mrs T Clark, who retires at the first Annual General To consider and, if thought t, pass the following as Meeting following her appointment, be re-elected as a Special Resolutions: Director.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are 5.
That Mr M R Moore, who retires annually, be re-elected hereby generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in as a Director.
the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, ordinary shares in the Company 6.
That Mr B W Sweetland, who retires annually, be reequity securities, including the grant of rights to elected as a Director.
subscribe for, or to convert securities into ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for 7.
That Mr P Niven, who retires annually, be re-elected as cash as if any pre-emption rights in relation to the issue a Director.
of shares as set out in the listing rules made by the 8.
That Mr N J M Tostevin, who retires annually, be reFinancial Conduct Authority under part VI of the elected as a Director.
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, 9.
That Mr C Russell, who retires annually, be re-elected provided that this power: as a Director.
a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this 10.
That KPMG Channel Islands Limited be re-appointed as resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the auditor.
passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, before such expiry, 11.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the make an offer or agreement which would or might auditors remuneration.
require equity securities to be allotted after such 12.
That, to the extent required by Sections 292 and 293 expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities or otherwise of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if as amended from time to time : the power conferred hereby had not expired: and i the Directors be generally and unconditionally b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities authorised to allot shares comprised in the share up to an aggregate nominal value 758,715 being capital of the Company as described in the approximately 10 per cent of the nominal value of Companys Articles of Incorporation or grant the issued share capital of the Company, as at options, warrants or other rights in respect of 11 April 2014. shares in the Company the Rights provided that this authority shall be limited to the allotment of 14.
That the Company be authorised, in accordance with shares or Rights to be granted in respect of shares section 315 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, with an aggregate nominal value of up to to make market acquisitions within the meaning of 758,715, being approximately 10 per cent of the section 316 1 of The Companies Guernsey Law, nominal value of the issued share capital of the 2008 of ordinary shares of 1p each Ordinary Company as at 11 April 2014 and further provided Shares either for retention as treasury shares for that this authority shall, unless renewed, varied or future resale or transfer, or cancellation, provided revoked by the Company, expire at the conclusion that: 56 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 57 a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby Notes: authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99 per cent 1.
A member who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at the of the issued Ordinary Shares on the date on which Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to this resolution is passed: attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
b the minimum price which may be paid for an 2.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each Ordinary Share shall be 1p: proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be the 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The higher of i 105 per cent of the average of the form of proxy should be completed and sent, together middle market quotations as derived from the Daily with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certied copy of such Ofcial List for the Ordinary Shares for the five power or authority, so as to reach the Companys business days immediately preceding the date of registrars Computershare Investor Services Guernsey purchase: and ii the higher of the last independent Limited, c o The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 trade and the highest current independent bid on 6ZY not later than 12.30 pm on 19 May 2014. the trading venue which the purchase is carried 4.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent out: and a member from attending in person at the Meeting should he or she so wish.
d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the 5.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll a member must first have his Company to be held in 2015, or on 21 November or her name entered on the register of members not later 2015, whichever is the earlier, save that the than close of business on 19 May 2014.
Changes to Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in contract to purchase Ordinary Shares under such determining the rights of any member to attend and vote authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary at such Meeting.
Shares pursuant to any such contract.
As at 11 April 2014, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 758,715,702 Ordinary Shares in issue.
The number of shares with voting rights was 758,715,702, each carrying one voting right.
By order of the Board Northern Trust International Fund Administration 7.
Any person holding 3 per cent or more of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than Services Guernsey Limited the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he Secretary and such third party complies with their respective PO Box 255, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3QL Transparency Rules.
The Articles of Incorporation and the Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection from 15 minutes prior to, and at, the Annual General Meeting.
