105710 CPropTxt PRINT 105710 CPropTxt V17 11 04 2014 15:07 Page 58 Shareholder Information Dividends Change of Address Ordinary dividends are paid monthly.
Shareholders who Communications with shareholders are mailed to the wish to have dividends paid directly into a bank account address held on the share register.
In the event of a rather than by cheque to their registered address can change of address or other amendment this should be complete a mandate form for the purpose.
Mandates may notified to Computershare Investor Services Guernsey be obtained from Computershare Investor Services Limited, c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, Guernsey Limited, c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, Jersey JE1 1ES under the signature of the registered St. Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES on request.
paid directly to shareholders bank accounts, dividend tax vouchers are sent directly to shareholders registered Shareholder Enquiries addresses.
Contact Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, Share Price St. Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands GY1 3QL.
The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the Main Additional information regarding the Company may also be Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Prices are given found at its website address which is: www.
co. uk daily in the Financial Times under Investment Companies and in other newspapers.
Stated after application of a 10 per cent discount to the value of the Companys investments in indirect property funds.
Warning to Shareholders Beware of Share Fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non existent, or to buy shares at an inated price in return for an upfront payment.
If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the Financial Conduct Authority FCA by using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams where you can nd out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
