160 Grainger plc Financials Independent auditors report on the parent company financial statements In applying the financial reporting Report on the parent framework, the directors have made a company financial number of subjective judgements, for statements example in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they Our opinion have made assumptions and considered In our opinion the parent company future events.
financialstatements: Certain disclosures required by the give a true and fair view of the state financial reporting framework have been ofthe parent companys affairs as at presented elsewhere in the Annual report, 30September 2013: rather than in the notes to the financial have been properly prepared in statements.
These are cross-referenced accordance with United Kingdom from the financial statements and are Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: identified as audited.
and What an audit of financial statements involves have been prepared in accordance with We conducted our audit in accordance the requirements of the Companies withInternational Standards on Auditing Act 2006.
UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An This opinion is to be read in the context of audit involves obtaining evidence about the what we say below.
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable What we have audited assurance that the financial statements are The parent company financial statements, free from material misstatement, whether which are prepared by Grainger plc, caused by fraud or error.
This includes an comprise: assessment of: the parent company balance sheet whether the accounting policies are asat30 September 2013: and appropriate to the parent companys the notes to the parent company financial circumstances and have been consistently statements, which include a summary of applied and adequately disclosed: significant accounting policies and other the reasonableness of significant explanatory information.
accounting estimates made by the The financial reporting framework that has directors: and been applied in their preparation comprises the overall presentation of the applicable law and United Kingdom financial statements.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 161 In addition, we read all the financial and we have not received all the information Our responsibilities and non-financial information in the Annual and explanations we require for our those of the directors report and accounts to identify material audit: or inconsistencies with the audited parent adequate accounting records have not As explained more fully in the Statement company financial statements and to been kept by the parent company, or ofdirectors responsibilities set out on page identify any information that is apparently returns adequate for our audit have not 81, the directors are responsible for the materially incorrect based on, or materially been received from branches not visited preparation of the parent company inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us: or financial statements and for being satisfied by us in the course of performing the audit.
the parent company financial that they give a true and fair view.
If we become aware of any apparent statements and the part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit and material misstatements or inconsistencies remuneration report to be audited are express an opinion on the parent company we consider the implications for our report.
not in agreement with the accounting financial statements in accordance with records and returns.
applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Opinions on matters Those standards require us to comply We have no exceptions to report arising with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical prescribed by theCompanies from this responsibility.
Act 2006 Directors remuneration This report, including the opinions, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are has been prepared for and only for In our opinion: required to report if, in our opinion, certain the companys members as a body in The information given in the Strategic disclosures of directors remuneration accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 report and the Directors report for specified by law have not been made.
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no the financial year for which the parent Wehave no exceptions to report arising other purpose.
We do not, in giving these company financial statements are from this responsibility.
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for prepared is consistent with the parent any other purpose or to any other person to Other information in the Annual report company financial statements.
whom this report is shown or into whose The part of the Directors remuneration Under International Standards on Auditing hands it may come save whereexpressly ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to be audited has been properly agreed by our prior consent in writing prepared in accordance with the report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual report is: Companies Act 2006. materially inconsistent with the Other matter information in the audited parent Other matters on which we We have reported separately on the group company financial statements: or are required toreport by financial statements of Grainger plc for the apparently materially incorrect based exception year ended 30 September 2013. on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent company Adequacy of accounting records and David Snell acquired in the course of performing our Senior Statutory Auditor information and explanations received audit: or for and on behalf of  LLP Under the Companies Act 2006 we are is otherwise misleading.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors required to report to you if, in our opinion: London We have no exceptions to report arising 7 November 2013 from this responsibility.
