Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 163 Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable UK accounting standards.
The company has taken the exemption allowed under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The loss for the year was 21.0m 2012 loss: 34.6m.
These financial statements present information about the company as an individual undertaking and not about its group.
The company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 8 Related Party Transactions, from the requirement to disclose such transactions on the grounds that it has presented its own consolidated financial statements.
b Accounting policies The company financial statements have been prepared under UK GAAP rather than under IFRS which has been adopted for group reporting.
The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the companys financial statements.
c Investment in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are carried at historical cost less provision for impairment based upon an assessment of the net recoverable amount of each investment.
To the extent that the assessment of recoverable amount improves, impairment provisions are reversed.
d Taxation Corporation tax is provided on taxable profits or losses at the current rate.
Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
e Own shares including treasury shares Transactions of The Grainger Employee Benefit Trusts are included in the companys financial statements.
The purchase of shares in the company by each trust and any treasury shares bought back by the company are debited direct to equity.
f Convertible bond The 112m, 3.625% convertible bond due 2014 was issued in May 2007.
Unless previously redeemed, converted, purchased or cancelled the bond is convertible at any time up to 12 May 2014 into fully paid up ordinary shares at a conversion price of 4.68.
The convertible bond is a compound financial instrument and the carrying amount has been allocated to its equity and liability components in the companys balance sheet.
The liability component has been determined by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated equity component.
The discount rate used for this was based on a rate of 7.5% compounded semi-annually.
The liability component has been deducted from the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a whole and the residual element has been assigned to the equity component.
The liability element is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
g Share-based payments Under the share-based compensation arrangements set out in note 1 k iii on page 99 and note 32 on page 154, employees of Grainger Employees Limited have been awarded options and conditional shares in the company.
These share-based arrangements have been treated as equity-settled in the consolidated financial statements.
In the company accounts the share-based payment charge has been added to the cost of investment in subsidiaries with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
