Grainger plc Financials 158 Notes to the financial statements continued 37 Operating lease commitments The future aggregate minimum lease payments payable by the group under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Operating lease payments due: Not later than one year 1.3 1.3 Later than one year and not later than five years 2.3 2.5 Later than five years 0.4 0.4 4.0 4.2 The group expects to receive nil under non-cancellable sub-leases 2012: nil.
Operating lease payments represent the lease payments made in the year relating to renting of office space used by the group, car leases under contract hire arrangements and operating lease payments relating to office equipment such as photocopiers.
Leases relating to office space used by the group have initial terms of varying lengths, between one to five years.
Rent reviews generally take place every five years.
Contract hire car leases generally have a three-year term.
There are no other significant operating lease arrangements requiring disclosure under IAS 17.
38 Contingent liabilities The properties in certain subsidiary companies forming a guarantee group provide the security for the groups core debt facility.
Barclays Bank plc has provided guarantees under performance bonds relating to the groups UK development division.
As at 30 September 2013 total guarantees amounted to 1.8m 2012: 1.8m.
In addition, the group has an obligation, under the sale and purchase agreement for the land at West Waterlooville, to pay further consideration should the site value exceed certain pre-agreed amounts.
It is not possible to determine the amount or timing of any such future payments due to the long-term nature of the sites development and the associated uncertainties.
However, it is unlikely that any future payments will fall due until at least 2015 and any payments made will be spread over a number of years.
As explained in more detail in note 21, there is uncertainty relating to the future of the site of Curzon Park in which the group has a 50% joint venture interest.
Should the value of the site, together with any compensation received, be insufficient to repay the bank loan in the joint venture entity, the group may incur charges in excess of those provided in these financial statements, in respect of obligations to the joint venture and the bank.
39 Assets classified as held-for-sale The group has identified certain of its investment properties as held-for-sale in accordance with the criteria set out in IFRS 5.
The group announced on 9 November 2012, that it had signed an agreement with Heitman, to create a new company to acquire two wholly-owned subsidiaries of the group.
These assets were classified as a disposal group with the assets and liabilities shown as held-for-sale as at 30 September 2012.
A write down of 6.9m 8.4m, before tax, was recognised in the 2012 Consolidated Income Statement representing the directors assessment of the loss on revaluation to fair value, under IAS 40, of the investment property in the disposal group based on the transaction.
A reduction in deferred tax liabilities of 1.7m 2.1m arose in relation to the loss on revaluation.
The net income statement impact after tax was therefore 5.2m 6.3m.
These assets were sold when the transaction completed on 10 December 2012.
