Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Independent auditors report to the members of Grainger plc on the group financial statements What an audit of financial statements involves Report on the group We conducted our audit in accordance financialstatements withInternational Standards on Auditing UKand Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An Our opinion audit involves obtaining evidence about the In our opinion the group financial amounts and disclosures in the financial statements: statements sufficient to give reasonable give a true and fair view of the state of assurance that the financial statements are the groups affairs as at 30 September free from material misstatement, whether 2013 and of the groups profit and cash caused by fraud or error.
This includes an flows for the year then ended: assessment of: have been properly prepared in whether the accounting policies are accordance with International Financial appropriate to the groups circumstances Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted and have been consistently applied and by the European Union: and adequately disclosed: have been prepared in accordance with the reasonableness of significant the requirements of the Companies Act accounting estimates made by the 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
directors: and This opinion is to be read in the context of the overall presentation of the what we say below.
What we have audited In addition, we read all the financial and The group financial statements, which are non-financial information in the Annual prepared by Grainger plc, comprise: Report and Accounts the Annual report the Consolidated statement of financial to identify material inconsistencies with the position as at 30 September 2013: audited group financial statements and to the Consolidated income statement identify any information that is apparently and Consolidated statement of materially incorrect based on, or materially comprehensive income for the year inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired then ended: by us in the course of performing the audit.
the Consolidated statement of changes If we become aware of any apparent in equity and Consolidated statement of material misstatements or inconsistencies cash flows forthe year then ended: and we consider the implications for our report.
the notes to the group financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
84 Grainger plc Financials Independent auditors report continued Overview of the scope of our audit Areas of particular audit focus Overview of our audit approach The group reports its operating results and In preparing the financial statements, the Materiality financial position along five business lines directors made a number of subjective We set certain thresholds for materiality.
being UK residential, Retirement solutions, judgements, for example in respect of These helped us to determine the nature, Fund and third party management, UK significant accounting estimates that timing and extent of our audit procedures &European development and German involved making assumptions and and to evaluate the effect of residential.
The group financial statements considering future events that are inherently misstatements, both individually and on are a consolidation of the business lines uncertain.
We primarily focused our work thefinancial statements as a whole.
detailed above and centralised functions inthese areas by assessing the directors Based on our professional judgement, see note 4 to the financial statements.
judgements against available evidence, we determined materiality for the group The accounting books and records for forming our own judgements, and financial statements as a whole to be all business lines and centralised functions, evaluating the disclosures in the 5.8m.
In arriving at this value, we with the exception of the German financialstatements.
have considered the average Operating residential business, are located in the UK at In our audit, we tested and examined Profit before valuation movements and the groups Head Office in Newcastle upon information, using sampling and other non-recurring items OPBVM over a Tyne.
The accounting books and records auditing techniques, to the extent three-year period, to account for volatility for the German residential business line are we considered necessary to provide a in the measure arising from fluctuations located in Frankfurt.
reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We believe OPBVM is the In establishing the overall approach to We obtained audit evidence through most appropriate measure of recurring the group audit, we determined the type testing the effectiveness of controls, group performance.
of work that needed to be performed substantive procedures or a combination We agreed with the audit committee at the two locations, Newcastle upon of both.
that we would report to them Tyne and Frankfurt.
Accordingly, we We considered the following areas misstatements identified during our audit analysed financial statement line items and to be those that required particular focus above 0.3m as well as misstatements disclosures individually for the transactions in the current year.
This is not a complete below that amount, in our view, warranted posted in the UK and Germany, and list of all risks or areas of audit focus reporting for qualitative reasons.
tailored our testing across each location, identified by our audit.
We discussed these together with additional procedures areas of focus with the audit committee.
performed at the group level Treasury Their report on those matters that they function, to be able to conclude whether considered to be significant issues in sufficient appropriate audit evidence had relation to the financial statements isset been obtained as a basis for our opinion on out on page 63. the group financial statements as a whole.
Additional procedures performed at the group level Treasury function concerned testing of balances and disclosures relating to Cash and cash equivalents, Derivative financial instruments, Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and the Cash flow hedge reserve.
Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Area of focus How the scope of our audit addressed the area of focus Valuation of investment and trading properties We focused on this area because the groups We checked that the property database information supplied to external valuers by property assets in the UK and Germany represent management was consistent with the underlying property records held by the group the majority of assets in the Consolidated statement and tested during our audit.
Our assessment of the net realisable value of trading properties held as inventories Property valuations are subject to a high degree of and the fair value of investment properties focused upon the critical accounting judgement as they are calculated from a number assumptions disclosed in note 2 to the financial statements, including the discount of different assumptions specific to each individual applied tothe vacant value for each tenanted property in establishing its market value.
We identified and challenged those assumptions that had the greatest impact on A relatively small percentage change in valuations property valuations and reperformed calculations made by the directors and external of individual properties, in aggregate, could result valuers in arriving at the year end valuations recorded in the financial statements.
in a material impact to the financial statements.
Our challenge of the assumptions involved performing sensitivity analyses to determine Refer also to note 2 to the financial statements.
the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually or collectively would be required for the valuations to be materially misstated.
Having done so we considered the likelihood of such a movement in those key assumptions arising.
Valuation of derivative financial instruments We focused on this area as thevaluations of We developed valuations using our own models, based on contracts originating from derivative financial instruments are derived through the groups derivative counterparties, for a number of year-end derivative positions cash flow models, which can be complex with a and compared these valuations tothose calculated by the directors.
Refer also to note 29 tothe financial statements.
The group holds a number ofthese instruments, and a relatively small error in the calculation of their values, in aggregate, could result in a material impact on the financial statements.
Risk of fraud inrevenue recognition ISAs UK & Ireland presume there is a risk of fraud Our testing of revenue transactions, to assess whether a service had been provided or in revenue recognition.
a sale had occurred, focused on understanding whether cash had been received and reading extracts of the related contracts for example a property sale completion We focused on the risk that revenue may have been statement, a rental contract or an asset or property management contract.
recognised for all revenue streams for transactions that had not occurred.
Where revenue was recorded through journal entries, we performed testing to establish whether a service had been provided or a sale had occurred in the financial year to support this recognition.
Risk of management override of internalcontrols ISAs UK & Ireland require that we consider this.
We assessed the overall control environment of the group, including the arrangements for staff to whistle-blow inappropriate actions, and interviewed senior management and the groups internal audit function.
We examined the significant accounting estimates and judgements relevant to the financial statements for evidence of bias by the directors that may represent a risk of material misstatement due to fraud including but not limited to property valuations.
We also tested journal entries to determine the rationale for manual adjustments.
