Grainger plc Financials 178 Glossary of terms Property Contingent tax Net net net asset value The amount of tax that would be payable triple net or NNNAV Assured periodic tenancy APT should trading property be sold at the Gross NAV adjusted for deferred tax and Market-rented tenancy arising from market value shown in the market value those contingent tax liabilities which succession from a regulated tenancy.
would accrue if assets were sold at market Tenant has security of tenure.
value and for the fair value of long-term Dividend cover debt and derivatives.
Assured shorthold tenancy AST Earnings per share divided by dividends Market-rented tenancy where landlord per share.
Return on capital employed may obtain possession if appropriate Operating profit after net valuation notice is served.
Earnings per share EPS movements on investment properties plus Profit after tax attributable to shareholders Assured tenancy AT the share of results from joint venture divided by the weighted average number associates plus the movement on the Market-rented tenancy where tenant has of shares in issue in the year.
uplift of trading stock to market value as a percentage of opening gross capital Gearing Investment value IV or market value The ratio of borrowings, net of cash, defined as investment property, financial Open market value of a property subject interest in property assets CHARM, to market net asset value.
to relevant tenancy in place.
investment in joint venture associates Goodwill and trading stock at market value.
Home reversion On acquisition of a company, the Rent free tenancy where tenant has the Return on shareholders equity difference between the fair value of right of occupation until possession is net assets acquired and the fair value Growth in NNNAV in the year plus the forfeited usually on death.
If the tenant dividend per share relating to each year of the purchase price paid.
retains an equity interest in the property as a percentage of opening NNNAV.
this is a partial life tenancy.
Gross net asset value NAV Shareholders funds adjusted for the Swap PRS Financial instrument to protect against market value of property assets held Private rented sector.
as stock but before deduction for interest rate movements.
Regulated tenancy deferred tax on property revaluations Total shareholder return TSR and before adjustments for the fair value Tenancy regulated under the 1977 Rent Return attributable to shareholders on Act.
Rent usually sub-market is set by of derivatives.
the basis of share price growth with the rent officer and the tenant has security dividends reinvested.
The use of financial instruments to protect Weighted average cost of capital Tenanted residential TR against interest rate movements.
WACC Activity covering the acquisition, renting The weighted average cost of funding the Interest cover out and subsequent sale usually on Profit on ordinary activities before interest groups activities through a combination vacancy of residential units subject of shareholders funds and debt.
and tax divided by net interest payable.
Loan to value LTV Vacant possession value VP or VPV Corporate Ratio of net debt to the market value Open market value of a property free of properties.
International Financial Reporting Recurring Profit Standards, mandatory for UK-listed Financial Profit before tax before valuation companies for accounting periods ending Cap movements and non-recurring items.
Financial instrument which, in return for a fee, guarantees an upper limit for the Operating Profit before Valuation Movements OPBVM interest rate on a loan.
Operating profit before valuation movements and non-recurring items.
