22 Grainger plc Strategic report Chief executives review continued Operational measures In addition to our strategic KPIs there are a number of other performance measures that the group actively monitors to assess the performance and direction of the business and which contribute to its overall performance as measured by the KPIs.
Staff Sales Percentage turnover for Sickness absence per Sales velocity in days Margin on permanentemployees employee perannum UK Residential vacant sales The average hours of training per Ratio of female to male staff at Vacant sales values above employee per annum seniormanager level or above previous year VPV See page 43.
Corporate responsibility Rents Percentage of tenants rating Percentage of tenant Increase in regulated rents Rent Arrears percentage: UK Graingers management service complaints resolved asgood or above at year end Average vacancy rate on regulated properties in 2013 Number of staff working days contributed for charitable causes See pages 26 and 27.
Financial Treasury OPBVM Recurring profit Interest cover ratio on core Average maturity syndicatefacility of drawn debt ROCE ROSE Average cost of debt Hedging percentage Cash and headroom onfacilities See pages 36 and 37.
Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Strategy and future outlook in the doughnut zones around central In the past, our core business has been London to acquire similar but somewhat heavily focused on the long-term larger opportunities.
ownership and trading of reversionary At Berewood, we are developing our assets, principally those subject to regulated own stock of PRS housing that we will tenancies.
These assets have and will hold and manage for the long term and continue to provide predictable income we are investigating similar potential at from sales and rental income, and can Aldershot.
These are examples of where provide opportunities to deliver low risk, we can accelerate the delivery of new above-market returns.
They also benefit homes on large development sites that from enhanced value growth due to we own or manage.
As well as selling land their London and South East weighting.
with planning permission to house builders Market dynamics suggest, however, that in for the owner occupier market, we will LTV the future there will be greater demand for build stock that we will commit to rent a more mature, customer focused private for the longer term.
This has a number of rental market.
Graingers experience and advantages to Grainger: first, it allows us to expertise make it ideally suited to thrive complete large sites more quickly: secondly 48% in this market.
This focus on the private it ensures we will not compete with the rented sector will therefore become a more house builders the natural purchasers of significant part of our business in the future.
our development plots : and, thirdly, it Net debt Allied to growth in the rental market enables us to secure significant economies are increasing numbers of opportunities of scale in property management.
for the creation of joint ventures and fund We are now operating within a management structures where we can range of gearing of 45%50% which we 959m leverage our core skills to create added consider is appropriate in the medium term.
value for our shareholders and partners We will also actively manage our average and thereby generate recurring fee income cost of debt downwards from its current for the business.
We will continue to level, towards 5.0%, which will assist the strengthen our capabilities in these areas.
relationship between rents and fees and In addition, the successful delivery of interest costs.
our strategy over recent years has created a After allowing for further vacant sales scalable platform in terms of skilled people, in the normal course of business, this means expert processes and financial strength that that the group is able to create and take enables us to compete effectively now and advantage of acquisition and investment in the future across the residential market.
As well as our appetite for Over this period, we have reduced our debt, regulated tenancy portfolios and individual achieved a balance of income between regulated properties our focus will include sales, rents and fees and increased our two the development of purpose built residential net asset measures, NAVand NNNAV.
rental stock build-to-rent in London and The four strands of our strategy remain: the South East and, increasingly, in key leading the market, ensuring our assets regional city locations.
are located and managed to deliver the The company is now strongly best returns, balancing the sources of positioned to take advantage of the current A focus on the private our income and optimising our financial positive market conditions and we look and operational gearing.
As market forward to another successful year of rented sector will conditions change so too will each of these forward momentum and value creation.
strands to ensure an appropriate fit to the become a more opportunities that will arise.
significant part of our In some cases we will be able to acquire stock by forward commitment business in the future.
to the developers, as we have done at Andrew Cunningham London Road, Barking with Bouygues Chief executive officer Development UK.
We are currently active 7 November 2013
