Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 167 EPRA performance measures The EPRA Best Practise Recommendations issued in 2010 identified 5 key performance measures.
The measures are deemed to be of importance for investors in property companies and aim to encourage more consistent and widespread disclosure.
The EPRA measures are defined below: Definition 1 EPRA Earnings Recurring earnings from core operational activities.
Property trading is not considered to be a core activity of property investment companies therefore this measure excludes results from property sales.
2 EPRA NAV Net Asset Value adjusted to include properties and other investment interests at fair value and to exclude certain items not expected to crystallise in a long-term investment property business model.
This measure is in line with the NAV as defined and disclosed in note 4 of the group accounts.
3 EPRA Triple Net Asset Value NNNAV EPRA NAV adjusted to include the fair values of i financial instruments, ii debt and iii deferred taxes.
This measure is in line with the Triple NAV as defined and disclosed in note 4 of the group accounts.
4i EPRA Net initial yield NIY Annualised rental income based on cash rents at the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the market value of the property, increased with estimated purchasers costs.
4ii EPRA topped-up yield This measure incorporates an adjustment to EPRA NIY in respect of the expiration of rent-free periods or other unexpired lease incentives such as discounted rent periods and step rents.
5 EPRA Vacancy Rate Estimated Market Rent Value ERV of vacant space divided by ERV of the whole portfolio.
6 EPRA Cost Ratios This measure includes all administrative and operating expenses including the share of joint ventures overheads and operating expenses, net of any service fees.
This measure should be calculated and shown as both including direct vacancy costs and excluding direct vacancy costs.
The group is supportive of the EPRA initiative however, we believe that four of the EPRA measures are not appropriate to the group and its current operations.
EPRA Earnings exclude profits from sales of property which is a core element of the groups earnings, contributing 78m 2012: 77m to earnings in the year.
Accordingly, we believe that this measure does not provide a useful indication of the performance of the group.
The EPRA NIY and topped-up yields do not take into account the reversionary aspect of our portfolio.
The UK reversionary portfolio has a reversionary surplus of 483m not included within earnings or adjusted for within this measure.
This represents a pipeline of future added value but without any material planning, development or construction risk.
A significant portion of our reversionary portfolio relates to home reversion assets which do not generate a rental income.
Therefore we do not believe that this measure is appropriate for our business.
The EPRA Vacancy Rate focuses on rental values of vacant space at a point in time which would not accurately reflect the experience of our portfolio.
The groups business model in relation to its reversionary portfolio is to sell assets on vacancy, therefore the EPRA Vacancy Rate is not an appropriate measure of performance.
The EPRA Cost Ratios are a measure of the ratio of administrative and operating costs as a percentage of gross rental income and require specific inclusions and exclusions.
We have adopted our own efficiency measure which shows our administrative and operating costs net of fee income as a proportion of the value of assets under management.
We believe this provides a useful high level assessment of how efficient the business is and so we prefer this measure and have therefore adopted it as a Key Performance Indicator.
