Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 Notes to the financial statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of preparation Grainger plc is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
It is a public limited liability company listed on the London Stock Exchange and the address of the registered office is given on page 175.
The group financial statements consolidate those of the company and its subsidiaries, together referred to as the group, and equity account the groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The parent company financial statements present information about the company and not about its group.
These financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2013 have been prepared in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRIC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The company has elected to prepare its company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
These are presented on pages 160 to 166.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in the group financial statements.
The group financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for the following assets and liabilities, and corresponding income statement accounts, which are stated at their fair value: investment property, derivative financial instruments and financial interest in property assets.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the events and amounts involved, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in note 2. b Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are all entities including special purposes entities over which the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when assessing whether the group controls another entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date control ceases.
Inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group.
ii Goodwill and impairment The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the group.
The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given and equity instruments issued.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the groups share of net identifiable assets including intangible assets of the acquired entity at the date of acquisition.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Costs attributable to an acquisition are expensed in the consolidated income statement under the heading Other expenses.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included within this caption on the statement of financial position.
Goodwill on acquisition of joint ventures and associates is included in investments in joint ventures and associates.
Goodwill is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing and is tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Grainger plc Financials 96 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued iii Joint ventures and associates Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the group has joint control, established by contractual agreement.
Associates are all entities over which the group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are accounted for by the equity method of accounting and are initially recognised at cost.
The groups investment in joint ventures and associates includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss identified on acquisition.
The groups share of its joint ventures and associates post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Where the groups interest has been reduced to nil, additional losses are provided for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture or associate.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the group and its joint ventures and associates are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
The accounting policies of joint ventures and associates have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the group.
Dilution gains and losses arising on investment in associates and joint ventures are recognised in the income statement.
c Segmental reporting The groups risks and rates of return are affected predominantly by differences between the property asset types it owns and manages.
A business segment is a distinguishable group of assets and operations, reflected in the way that the group manages its business, that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those of other business segments.
IFRS 8, Operating Segments IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified based upon the groups internal reporting to the chief operating decision maker CODM to make decisions about resources to be allocated to segments and to assess their performance.
The groups CODM is the chief executive officer.
The group has identified five such segments as follows: UK residential: Retirement solutions: Fund and third-party management: UK and European development: and German residential.
All of the above segments are UK based except German residential which has its assets and tenants based in Germany and UK and European Development which includes assets based in the Czech Republic.
More detail is given relating to each of the above segments in note 4.
The group has a segment director responsible for the performance of each of these five segments and the group reports key financial information to the CODM on the basis of these five segments.
Each of these five segments operates within a different part of the overall residential market.
The title All other segments has been included in the segmental tables in note 4 to reconcile the segments to the figures reviewed by the CODM.
The measure of profit or loss used by the CODM is the trading profit or loss before valuation gains or deficits on investment properties and excluding all revaluation and non recurring items as set out in note 3.
The CODM reviews by segment two key statements of financial position measures of net asset value.
These are Gross net asset value NAV and Triple net asset value NNNAV measures.
Further detail is provided in note 4. d Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 e Foreign currency translation i Functional and presentation currency Items included in the financial statements of each of the groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling, which is the companys functional and presentation currency.
ii Foreign currency transactions Foreign currency transactions are translated at the foreign exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the statement of financial position date are translated into sterling at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions are recognised in the income statement.
iii Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the statement of financial position date.
Revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at average foreign exchange rates for the relevant period.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
iv Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income within the translation reserve as part of retained earnings.
Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement within interest expense and similar charges.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold.
f Investment property Property that is held for long-term rental yields or for capital appreciation or both, and that is not occupied by the companies in the consolidated group, is classified as investment property.
Investment property is measured initially at its cost, including related transaction costs.
After initial recognition, investment property is carried at fair value.
Fair value is based on active market prices, adjusted, if necessary, for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specified asset.
If this information is not available, the group uses alternative valuation methods such as recent prices on less active markets or discounted cash flow projections.
Subsequent expenditure is included in the carrying amount of the property when it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the groups investment properties are included in the income statement of the period in which they arise.
Where specific investment properties have been identified as being for sale within the next 12 months their fair value is shown under assets classified as held-for-sale within current assets.
In general, however, it is not possible for the group to identify which properties will be sold within the next 12 months.
Although the size of the groups property portfolio does result in a relatively predictable vacancy rate, it is not possible to predict in advance the specific properties that will become vacant.
g Financial interest in property assets Financial interest in property assets is initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently carried at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the net change in value that is recorded through the income statement is as follows: i the carrying value of the assets is increased by the effective interest rate and ii the carrying value of the assets is revised to the net present value of the updated projected cash flows arising from the instrument using the effective interest rate applicable at acquisition.
The change in value recorded through the income statement is shown on the line Income from financial interest in property assets.
Cash received from the instrument in the year is deducted from the carrying value of the asset.
Differences between the updated projected cash flows using the effective interest rate applicable at acquisition compared to updated projected cash flows using a year end effective interest rate, assessed as the rate available in the market for an instrument with a similar maturity and credit risk, are taken through other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying value of the assets.
When gains or losses in the assets are realised, the accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in the income statement as gains and losses from financial interest in property assets.
Grainger plc Financials 98 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued h Inventories trading property Tenanted residential properties held-for-sale in the normal course of business are shown in the financial statements as a current asset at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes legal and surveying charges and introducer fees incurred during acquisition together with improvement costs.
Net realisable value is the net sale proceeds which the group expects on sale of a property with vacant possession.
Land and property held within the development segment of the business are shown in the financial statements at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost represents the acquisition price including legal and other professional costs associated with the acquisition together with subsequent development costs net of amounts transferred to costs of sale.
Net realisable value is the expected net sales proceeds of the developed property.
Where residential properties are sold tenanted or where land is sold without development, net realisable value is the current market value net of associated selling costs.
i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
j Income tax Income tax on the profits or losses for the periods presented comprises both current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year using rates applicable during the year.
Tax payable upon the realisation of revaluation gains recognised in prior periods is recorded as a current tax charge with a release of the associated deferred taxation.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 k Employee benefits i Defined contribution pension scheme Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement in the period to which they relate.
ii Defined benefit pension scheme The group currently contributes to a defined benefit pension scheme that was closed to new members and employee contributions in 2003.
The full deficit in the scheme was recognised in the statement of financial position as at 1 October 2004.
An actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years.
The cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each statement of financial position date by a qualified actuary, also under the Projected Unit Credit Method, for the purpose of determining the amounts to be reflected in the groups financial statements under IAS 19.
The liability recognised in the statement of financial position is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the statement of financial position date less the fair value of scheme assets.
There are no current or past service costs as the scheme is closed to new members and employee contributions.
Interest on pension scheme liabilities and the expected return on pension scheme assets are reflected in the income statement each year.
Actuarial gains and losses net of deferred income tax are reflected in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income each year.
iii Share-based compensation The group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans comprising awards under a Long-term Incentive Scheme LTIS, a deferred bonus plan DBP, a Share Incentive Plan SIP and a save as you earn SAYE scheme.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of shares and options is recognised as an employee expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares and options granted.
For market based conditions, the probability of vesting is taken into account in the fair value calculation and no revision is made to the number of shares or options expected to vest.
For non-market conditions, each year the group revises its estimate of the number of options or shares that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Awards that are subject to a market-based performance condition are valued at fair value using the Monte Carlo simulation model.
Awards not subject to a market-based performance condition are valued at fair value using the Black Scholes valuation model.
When options are exercised the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
l Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and is stated net of sales taxes and value added taxes.
Revenue is recognised on our three primary income streams as follows: i Income from property trading Revenue and profits or losses arising from the sale of trading and investment property are included in the income statement where contract completion has taken place.
Profits or losses are calculated by reference to the carrying value of property and are included in operating profit.
ii Rental income Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term on an accruals basis.
iii Management fee income Management fee income is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are rendered.
iv Performance fee income Performance fee income is recognised in line with contract provisions when the revenue can be reliably measured, and there is reasonable certainty that the performance criteria will be met.
Grainger plc Financials 100 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued In addition, income is recognised as follows on service charges and investments: Service charges The group is responsible for providing service charge services in both the UK and in Germany.
Where Grainger is exposed to the significant risks and rewards associated with the rendering of services, it is acting as principal.
Otherwise it is acting as agent.
In the UK, Grainger acts primarily as agent.
Accordingly service charge receivables and payables are shown net in the statement of financial position.
In Germany, Grainger acts primarily as principal.
Accordingly, service charge income and costs are shown gross in the income statement with service charge recoveries from tenants recorded as a component of group revenue.
Where recovery of service charges is doubtful, a provision for impairment is made.
Income from investments Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Group revenue Group revenue, set out in note 5, comprises gross rental income, service charge income on a principal basis, gross proceeds before sales costs from the sale of trading properties and management fee and other income.
m Leases i Group as lessor The net present value of ground rents receivable is, in the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground rents receivable are taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Properties leased out to tenants are included in the statement of financial position as either investment property or as trading property under inventories.
Where the group grants a lifetime lease on an investment property and receives from the lessee an upfront payment in respect of the grant of the lease, the upfront payment is treated as deferred rent in the statement of financial position.
This deferred rent is released to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the projected term of the lease.
At each year end the projected term of the lease is revised on an actuarial basis and the remaining deferred rent is released to the income statement on a straight-line basis over this revised lease term.
ii Group as lessee The group occupies a number of its offices as a lessee.
After a review of all of its occupational leases, the directors have concluded that all such leases are operating leases.
Payments, including prepayments, made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
The net present value of ground rents payable is, in the opinion of the directors, immaterial.
Accordingly, ground rent expenses are taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
n Derivative financial instruments Derivatives The group uses derivative instruments to help manage its interest rate risk.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the group does not hold or issue derivatives for trading purposes.
Derivatives are classified as current assets and current liabilities.
The derivatives are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequently, the gain or loss on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the income statement, unless the derivatives qualify for cash flow hedge accounting in which case any gain or loss is taken to equity in a cash flow hedge reserve.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the group is required to document in advance the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument.
The group is also required to demonstrate that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is re-performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecasted transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Strategic report Governance Financials Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 Fair value estimation The fair value of interest rate swaps is based on a discounted cash flow model using quoted market information.
o Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Derecognition is the point at which the group removes an asset or a liability from its statement of financial position.
The groups policy is to derecognise financial assets only when the contractual right to the cash flows from the financial asset expires.
The group also derecognises financial assets that it transfers to another party provided that the transfer of the assets also transfers the right to receive cash flows from the financial asset.
When the transfer does not result in the group transferring the right to receive cash flows from the financial asset but it does result in the group assuming a corresponding obligation to pay cash flows to another recipient, the financial asset is derecognised.
The group derecognises financial liabilities only when its obligation is discharged, is cancelled or expires.
Financial assets classified as available-for-sale is the financial interest in property assets.
Derivative financial instruments not in hedge accounting relationships are classified as fair value through profit and loss.
p Borrowings Borrowings are initially recognised at cost, being the fair value of consideration received, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the statement of financial position date.
q Convertible bond The convertible bond is a compound financial instrument and the carrying amount has been allocated to its equity and liability components in the group statement of financial position.
The liability component has been determined by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated equity component.
The discount rate used for this was based on a rate of 7.5% compounded semi-annually.
The liability component has been deducted from the fair value of the compound financial instrument as a whole and the residual element has been assigned to the equity component.
The liability element is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
r Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment in trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the group will not be able to collect all amounts due.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the income statement.
s Trade payables Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
t Provisions Provisions are recognised when a the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and b it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and c a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
u Dividends Dividend distributions to the companys shareholders are recognised as a liability in the group financial statements in the period in which the dividends are either approved by the companys shareholders or are appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the group.
Interim dividends are recognised on payment.
Grainger plc Financials 102 Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Accounting policies continued v Assets and associated liabilities classified as held-for-sale Where a group of assets are to be disposed of by sale as a single group, they are classified as a disposal group.
The disposal group is classified as held-for-sale, as defined by IFRS 5, when the assets are available-for-sale in their present condition, the sale is highly probable and it is expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification.
w Acquisition of and investment in own shares The group acquires its own shares to enable it to meet its obligations under the various share schemes in operation.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the companys own shares.
The acquisition cost of the shares is debited to an investment in own shares reserve within retained earnings.
Where the group buys back its own shares as treasury shares it adopts the accounting as described above.
Where it subsequently cancels them, issued share capital is reduced by the nominal value of the shares cancelled and this same amount is transferred to the capital redemption reserve.
x Impact of standards and interpretations issued i New and amended standards issued in the year At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following interpretations and amendments were issued, endorsed by the EU and are mandatory for the group for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 October 2012.
There are no new standards, amendments or interpretations that are effective for the first time for the current financial year that have had a material impact on the group.
ii New and amended standards IAS 1, Financial Statement Presentation has been amended and introduced the requirement to group items presented in other comprehensive income on the basis of whether they are potentially reclassable to profit or loss subsequently reclassification adjustments.
The group has adopted this revised presentation in these financial statements.
IAS 12, Deferred Tax: Recovery of Underlying Assets introduces a rebuttable presumption that deferred tax on investment properties measured at fair value will be recognised on a sales basis, unless an entity has a business model that would indicate the investment property will be consumed in the business.
iii New and amended standards not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, there were a number of new standards, amendments to existing standards and interpretations in issue that have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The group has no plan to adopt these standards earlier than the effective date.
Those that are most relevant to the group are set out below.
IAS 19, Employee benefits, was amended in June 2011 and is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
For defined benefit plans, the group will change its measurement principles by replacing the interest costs and expected return on plan assets with a net interest amount that is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability including the IFRIC 14 Liability.
There will also be a corresponding change in the amount recognised in other comprehensive income, so that the net impact on total comprehensive income and net assets will be nil.
If this standard had been applied to the year ended 30 September 2013, it is estimated the income statement charge would have been increased by approximately 0.1m.
IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial statements, which establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities and requirements management to exercise judgement over which entities are required to be consolidated.
IFRS 10 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, under IFRS 11 the structure of the joint arrangement, although still an important consideration, is no longer the main factor in determining the type of joint arrangement and therefore subsequent accounting.
IFRS 11 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
