86 Grainger plc Financials Directors remuneration apparently materially incorrect based Independent auditors report Under the Companies Act 2006 we are on, or materially inconsistent with, our continued required to report if, in our opinion, certain knowledge of the group acquired in disclosures of directors remuneration thecourse of performing our audit: or specified by law have not been made, and is otherwise misleading.
under the Listing Rules we are required to We have no exceptions to report arising review certain elements of the report to from this responsibility.
Going concern shareholders by the board on directors Under the Listing Rules we are required to remuneration.
We have no exceptions to review the directors statement, on page 61, Responsibilities for the report arising from these responsibilities.
in relation to going concern.
We have nothing financial statements to report having performed our review.
Corporate governance statement andtheaudit As noted in the directors statement, Under the Listing Rules we are required to the directors have concluded that it is review the part of the Corporate Our responsibilities and those of the directors appropriate to prepare the groups financial Governance Statement relating to the As explained more fully in the Statement of statements using the going concern basis companys compliance with nine provisions directors responsibilities set out on page 81, of accounting.
The going concern basis of the UK Corporate Governance Code the directors are responsible for the preparation presumes that the group has adequate the Code.
We have nothing to report of the group financial statements and for resources to remain in operation, and that having performed our review.
being satisfied that theygive a true and the directors intend it to do so, for at least On page 8 of the Annual report, fair view.
one year from the date the financial as required by the Code Provision C. 1.1, Our responsibility is to audit and express an statements were signed.
As part of our the directors state that they consider the opinion on the group financial statements audit we have concluded that the directors Annual report taken as a whole to be fair, in accordance with applicable law and ISAs use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
balanced and understandable and provides UK & Ireland.
Those standards require However, because not all future events the information necessary for members to us to comply with the Auditing Practices or conditions can be predicted, these assess the groups performance, business Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
statements are not a guarantee as to the model and strategy.
On page 63, as This report, including the opinions, has groups ability to continue as a going concern.
required by C3.8 of the Code, the audit been prepared for and only for the companys committee has set out the significant issues members as a body in accordance with that it considered in relation to the financial Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Opinions on matters statements, and how they were addressed.
We do not, prescribed by the Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required in giving these opinions, accept or assume CompaniesAct 2006 to report to you if, in our opinion: responsibility for any other purpose or to the statement given by the directors any other person to whom this report is In our opinion the information given in the is materially inconsistent with our shown or into whose hands it may come Strategic report and the Directors report knowledge of the group acquired in save where expressly agreed by our prior for the financial year for which the group thecourse of performing our audit: or consent in writing.
financial statements are prepared is consistent the section of the Annual report with the group financial statements.
describing the work of the audit Other matter committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by We have reported separately on the parent Other matters on which ustothe audit committee.
company financial statements of Grainger weare required to report plc for the year ended 30 September 2013 We have no exceptions to report arising byexception and on the information in the Directors from this responsibility.
remuneration report that is described as Adequacy of information and having been audited.
Other information in the Annual report explanations received Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required Under the Companies Act 2006 we are David Snell Senior Statutory Auditor to report to you if, in our opinion, required to report to you if, in our opinion for and on behalf of  LLP information in the Annual report is: we have not received all the information Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors materially inconsistent with the London and explanations we require for our audit.
information in the audited group financial We have no exceptions to report arising 7 November 2013 statements: or from this responsibility.
