Company Financial Statements Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Accounting Policies of the Company Accounting Policies of the Company The Company provides pension arrangements to the majority of full time employees through the Companys defined benefit Basis of Accounting Financial statements The separate financial statements of the Company are presented scheme.
It is not possible to identify the share of underlying 93 Independent Auditors Report to assets and liabilities in this scheme which is attributable to the as required by the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements the members of BBA Aviation plc have been prepared using the historical cost convention Company on a consistent and reasonable basis.
Therefore the 96 Consolidated Income Statement Company has applied the provisions in FRS17 to account for adjusted for the revaluation of certain fixed assets and in 97 Consolidated Statement of accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting the scheme as if it was a defined contribution scheme.
Comprehensive Income The costs of pension plans and other post-retirement standards and law.
98 Consolidated Balance Sheet The financial statements have been prepared on a going benefits are charged to the profit and loss account so as to 99 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement spread the costs over employees working lives within the concern basis in accordance with the rationale set out in the 100 Consolidated Statement of directors statement of going concern on page 89 of the Company.
The contribution levels are determined by valuations Changes in Equity undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
101 Accounting Policies of theGroup The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from 106 Notes to the Consolidated Share-based payments preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1: Cash Financial Statements flow statements.
The Company is exempt under the terms of The Company operates a number of cash and equity-settled 141 Company Balance Sheet share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the FRS8: Related party disclosures, from disclosing related party 142 Accounting Policies of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries of BBA Aviation plc.
compensation is recognised in the profit and loss account as theCompany an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting The Company has taken full advantage of the exemption to 144 Notes to the Company Financial Statements provide financial instrument disclosures under the terms of period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted and calculated using the valuation technique most 149 Principal Subsidiary and FRS29: Financial instruments: Disclosures.
Associated Undertakings The principal accounting policies are set out below.
They appropriate to each type of award.
These include Black-Scholes 150 Five Year Summary calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
For cash-settled have all been applied consistently throughout the current and 151 Shareholder Information preceeding periods.
options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance sheet date.
For both cash and equity-settled options, Investments the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to become exercisable at each balance In the Companys financial statements, investments in subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated at cost less provision sheet date.
Tangible fixed assets Plant and machinery and land and buildings are stated in the Treasury Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at balance sheet at cost.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of tangible fixed assets less estimated residual value and is the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at calculated on a straight-line basis over the following estimated useful lives of the assets: the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Any gain or loss arising from a change Land Not depreciated in exchange rates subsequent to the date of transaction is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Buildings 40 years maximum Plant and machinery including essential Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group commissioning costs 3-18 years comprise interest rates swaps, cross currency or basis swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
All such instruments are used Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are for hedging purposes to manage the risk profile of an underlying categorised within plant and machinery in note 3 of the exposure of the Group in line with the Groups risk management accounts.
All derivative instruments are recorded on the balance The revaluation reserve consists of the surpluses on sheet at fair value.
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative the revaluation of land and buildings to their market value for instruments depends on whether the instrument is designated existing use and on the revaluation of plant and machinery to as a hedge and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
The directors are not aware of The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow any material change to the value of these assets since the last hedges are deferred in equity until the impact from the hedged revaluation.
item is recognised in the profit and loss account.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the profit and loss account immediately.
Gains or losses on the qualifying part of net investment hedges are recognised in equity together with the gains and losses on the underlying net investment.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is recognised in the profit and loss account.
Changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the profit and loss account as they arise.
indb 142 12 03 2014 12:45 Company Financial Statements Leases Accounting Policies of the Company Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights similar to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as if they had been purchased and the leasing commitments are shown as obligations to the lessors.
The capitalisation values of the assets are written off on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the assets concerned.
The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital payments outstanding.
For all other leases operating leases the rental payments are charged to the income statement on a straight line basis over the lives of the leases.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is provided in full on all liabilities.
In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is regarded that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been discounted.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the sale or revaluation of fixed assets unless, at the balance sheet date, a binding commitment to sell the asset has been entered into and it is unlikely that any gain will qualify for rollover relief.
