Strategic Report Operating Model Operating Model BBA Aviation sets strategic direction and provides operational oversight to the Flight Support and Aftermarket Services divisions that go to market through their individual brands.
BBA Aviation is focused on driving long-term sustainable value creation through developing, accessing and allocating the scarce resources of human and financial capital to aviation support and aftermarket service companies.
BBA Aviation sets the focus and strategic direction, exercises oversight through process-led active management and maximises the Groups intrinsic cross-business opportunities.
The Group is structured into two divisions: Our Flight Support division Signature Flight Support and ASIG provides specialist on-airport support services to the owners and operators of private, business and commercial aircraft.
Go to pages 2837 Flight Support We aim to differentiate ourselves from our competitors through our customer relationships, For further details about how the strength and relevance of our network, technical capability and market-leading our Flight Support division performed in 2013 customer service.
Our Aftermarket Services division Engine Repair & Overhaul and Legacy Support is Go to pages 3849 focused on the repair and overhaul of engines and the support of aerospace components, Aftermarket Services sub-systems and systems.
We operate with high levels of intellectual property rights, derived For further details about how from Original Equipment Manufacturer OEM authorisations and licences.
In 2013 APPH, our Aftermarket Services division performed in 2013 a landing gear and hydraulic sub-systems manufacturer, formed part of the Aftermarket Services division.
This business was sold in February 2014.
Our operating model supports our overarching objective to deliver exceptional, long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
Revenue by division Aftermarket BBA Aviation Flight Support Services in 2013 62% 38% Flight Support 62% Signature 70% ERO 71% Aftermarket Services 38% ASIG 30% Legacy 20% APPH 9% 14 BBA complete.
