Consolidated Financial Statements Amendments to IAS 36: Impairment of assets IAS 36 clarifies Accounting Policies of the Group Accounting Policies of the Group the disclosure requirements with respect to recoverable amounts Basis of preparation of cash generating units.
These amendments have been early The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with adopted with effect from 1 January 2013. International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 Financial reporting standards applicable for future financial periods of the EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006 applicable A number of EU-endorsed standards and amendments to to companies reporting under IFRS.
They have also been existing standards and interpretations, which are described prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International below, are effective for annual periods beginning on or after Accounting Standards Board.
1 January 2014 and have not been applied in preparing the The financial statements have been prepared using the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Group.
None of these historical cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain are expected to have a material impact on the Consolidated financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted Financial Statements of the Group.
These policies have been consistently applied IFRS 10: Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 10, IFRS 11: with the prior year except where noted.
Joint Arrangements IFRS 11, IFRS 12: Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 12 and amendments to IAS27: Consolidated New financial reporting requirements and Separate Financial Statements IAS27 and IAS 28: Amendments to IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements are Investments in Associates IAS 28 are effective for financial applicable for financial reporting periods commencing 1 January reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The 2013 and require items within other comprehensive income amendments to IAS27 and IAS 28 have been made to align that may be classified to the income statement to be grouped them with IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12. together.
The amendment relates to presentation only and has IFRS 10 defines the principle of control which is the basis for no impact on the reported results or balance sheet of the Group.
determining which entities are consolidated in the Groups financial IAS 19: Employee Benefits Revised IAS 19R is effective for statements.
The standard also sets out the accounting requirements financial reporting periods beginning 1 January 2013 with for the preparation of consolidated financial statements.
The Group retrospective application required.
The principal impact of has reviewed the relationship of its subsidiary entities with their IAS 19R is that the concepts of expected return on assets and respective parent company.
No changes to the accounting for interest expense on the defined benefit obligation as separate those entities within the consolidation are required.
components of the defined benefit cost have been replaced by IFRS 11 requires parties to a joint arrangement to focus a single concept such that interest is now calculated on the net on their rights and obligations rather than its legal form in defined benefit deficit.
This calculation uses the discount rate determining whether the arrangement is a joint operation or previously used to measure defined benefit pension liabilities a joint venture.
A joint operator accounts for its share of assets, after allowance for any asset ceilings and additional liabilty under liabilities and corresponding revenues and expenses arising IFRIC 14: The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding from the arrangement, whereas a joint venturer accounts for Requirements, and their Interaction IFRIC 14.
In addition, plan an investment in an arrangement using the equity method.
administration expenses, previously deducted from the No change to the accounting for joint operations is expected.
expected return on scheme assets, are now included within IFRS 12 sets out the disclosure requirements for all forms operating profit.
As a result of these amendments, the comparative of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements and financial information in the income statement and statement of associates.
The additional disclosures aim to enable users to comprehensive income for the year ended 31December 2012 evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, the Groups has been restated.
For the year ended 31December 2012, the interest in associates and joint operations, and the effects of those impact on the income statement is to reduce operating profit entities on the Groups financial position, financial performance by $2.7 million and increase net finance costs by $2.5 million, and cash flows.
IFRS 12 relates to disclosures only and has no and reduce actuarial losses by $5.2 million in the statement of impact on the reported results or balance sheet of the Group.
The pension deficit has remained In addition to the above, IFRS 9: Financial Instruments unchanged and so the balance sheet has not been restated.
IFRS 9 has been issued but has not yet been endorsed by the The impact on earnings per share is to decrease basic adjusted EU.
Therefore, the date from which it becomes effective is not and unadjusted earnings per share by 1.1 per share to 27.9 and yet known.
IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement 23.1 per share respectively, and to decrease diluted adjusted and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
earnings per share by 1.0 per share to 27.5 per share and diluted The Group is yet to assess the impact of IFRS 9 on the unadjusted earnings per share by 1.1 per share to 22.7 per share.
IFRS 13: Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 is applicable for financial reporting periods beginning 1 January 2013.
Basis of consolidation It aims to improve consistency and comparability in fair value The Group financial statements incorporate the financial measurements and related disclosures by providing a precise statements of the Company, BBA Aviation plc, and its subsidiary definition of fair value and a single source of related disclosure undertakings under the acquisition method of accounting.
requirements for use across other IFRSs.
The standard has clarified Theresults of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold during the the method for measuring fair value to incorporate credit year are included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the adjustments for the Company in addition to credit adjustments effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal for counterparties.
The requirements do not extend the use of fair as appropriate.
The Company controls an investee when it has value accounting.
The Company has determined that any such the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an adjustments are immaterial for the year ended 31December 2013. investee so as to obtain benefits from activities.
indb 101 12 03 2014 12:45 Consolidated Financial Statements intercompany transactions, sales by associated undertakings and Accounting Policies of the Group continued Accounting Policies of the Group sales taxes.
Goodwill on acquisitions represents the excess of the fair value Within the engine overhauls business, revenue and associated Financial statements of the consideration paid, the non-controlling interest, and the profit on engine overhauls are recognised on a percentage of 93 Independent Auditors Report to completion basis once the terms of the contract have been agreed fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree the members of BBA Aviation plc over the fair value of the identifiable net assets, liabilities and with the customer and the ultimate profitability of the contract 96 Consolidated Income Statement can be determined with reasonable certainty.
The percentage of contingent liabilities acquired.
Where goodwill can only be 97 Consolidated Statement of determined on a provisional basis for a financial year, adjustments completion is generally based on hours incurred compared with Comprehensive Income managements best estimate of the total hours of production.
may be made to this balance for up to 12 months from the date 98 Consolidated Balance Sheet Within the engine overhauls business, revenue and associated of acquisition.
Goodwill is capitalised and presented as part of 99 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement profit is recognised on engine sales.
Where the engine sold is intangible assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Goodwill is subsequently leased back, the revenue and profit is only recognised 100 Consolidated Statement of stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses and is tested Changes in Equity where the lease can be categorised as an operating lease.
for impairment on an annual basis.
101 Accounting Policies of Associated undertakings are those investments other than theGroup Operating profit subsidiary undertakings where the Group is in a position to exercise 106 Notes to the Consolidated Operating profit is stated after charging exceptional items and a significant influence, typically through participation in the financial Financial Statements after the share of results of associates and joint ventures but and operating policy decisions of the investee.
Joint ventures and 141 Company Balance Sheet before investment income, finance costs and joint ventures.
associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting 142 Accounting Policies of Exceptional items are items which are material or theCompany and are initially recognised at cost.
The Consolidated Financial non-recurring in nature, including costs relating to acquisitions 144 Notes to the Company Statements include the Groups share of the post-acquisition Financial Statements and disposals and the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
reserves of all such companies less provision for impairment.
149 Principal Subsidiary and Associated Undertakings Research and development expenditure Going concern 150 Five Year Summary Research expenditure is charged against income in the year The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial 151 Shareholder Information in which it is incurred.
An internally generated intangible asset statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and arising from the Groups development expenditure is recognised the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational only if the asset can be separately identifiable, it is probable existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt that the asset will generate future economic benefits and the the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial development costs of the asset can be measured reliably.
Further detail is contained in the directors statement of going concern on page 89 of the Directors Report.
Intangible assets Licences and contracts, other than manufacturing licences within Foreign currencies the Legacy Support business, that are acquired separately are Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the entitys stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
functional currency at the rate of exchange at the date of the Amortisation is provided for on a straight-line basis over the useful transaction.
The Legacy Support business acquires licences from Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign original equipment manufacturers OEMs to become the alternate currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into the OEM for that product.
The useful life is based on the underlying functional currency at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
contract where that is a determinable period.
Where the useful Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent life is indeterminable, a lifespan of 20 years is typically used.
An to the date of transaction is recognised in the income statement.
annual review is performed to assess the licences remaining useful The income statements of operations of which the functional life against the vitality of the underlying platform.
Where currency is other than the US dollar are translated into US dollars at computer software is not an integral part of a related item of the average exchange rate for the year.
The balance sheets of these computer hardware, the software is treated as an intangible asset.
operations, including associated goodwill, are translated into US Computer software is capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred dollars at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
Amortisation is All exchange differences arising on consolidation are recognised provided on the cost of software and is calculated on a initially in other comprehensive income and only in the income straight-line basis over the useful life of the software.
statement in the period in which the entity is eventually disposed of.
Intangible assets, other than goodwill, arising on All other translation differences are taken to the income acquisitions are capitalised at fair value.
An intangible asset will statement, with the exception of differences on foreign currency be recognised as long as the asset is separable or arises from borrowing and derivative instruments to the extent that they are contractual or other legal rights, and its fair value can be used to provide a hedge against the Groups equity investments measured reliably.
Amortisation is provided on the fair value of in overseas operations.
These translation differences are the asset and is calculated on a straight-line basis over its useful recognised in other comprehensive income together with the life, which typically is the term of the licence or contract.
exchange difference on the net investment in those operations.
Goodwill and intangible assets arising on the acquisition of a Property, plant and equipment foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Property, plant and equipment is stated in the balance entity and translated at the closing rate of exchange.
sheet atcost less accumulated depreciation and provision for impairments.
Depreciation is provided on the cost of property, Revenue recognition plant and equipment less estimated residual value and is Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration calculated on a straight line basis over the following estimated received or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for 102 useful lives of the assets: goods supplied and services provided by the Group excluding BBA complete.
indb 102 12 03 2014 12:45 Consolidated Financial Statements Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Land Not depreciated Accounting Policies of the Group Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise Freehold buildings 40 years maximum interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange Leasehold buildings Shorter of useful life contracts.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to and lease term manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group Fixtures and equipment including in line with the Groups risk management policies.
All derivative essential commissioning costs 3-18 years instruments are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.
Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments Tooling, vehicles, computer and office equipment are depends on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge categorised within fixtures and equipment.
and the type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
Finance costs which are directly attributable to the The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow construction of major items of property, plant and equipment hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income until the are capitalised as part of those assets.
The commencement of impact from the hedged item is recognised in the income capitalisation begins when both finance costs and expenditures statement.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is for the asset are being incurred and activities that are necessary recognised immediately within other gains and losses in the to get the asset ready for use are in progress.
ceases when substantially all the activities that are necessary Hedges of net investments in non US dollar territories are to get the asset ready for use are complete.
accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or and equipment loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately, At each balance sheet date, the Group reviews the carrying value and is included within operating profit.
Gains and losses deferred of its intangible and tangible assets to determine whether there in the foreign currency translation reserve are recognised in profit is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of Changes in the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the classified as fair value through profit or loss FVTPL and those impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that do not qualify for hedge accounting, are recognised within that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the operating profit in the income statement as they arise.
Changes recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the in the fair value of interest rate swaps classified as FVTPL are asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite life is tested charged to net interest within the income statement.
for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Other financial instruments The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments accounted for at the trade date.
of the time value of money.
The risks specific to the asset are reflected as an adjustment to the future estimated cash flows.
Cash and cash equivalents If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deemed unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments with amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to original maturities of three months or less which are readily its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to immediately in the income statement.
an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts which Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the are repayable on demand are included within cash and cash carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount Trade and other receivables that would have been determined had no impairment loss been Trade and other receivables excluding derivative assets do not recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
carry any interest and are stated at nominal value as reduced by A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill are not reversed in subsequent periods.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according Inventories to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual Cost comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of proportion of labour and overheads in the case of work in its liabilities.
Cost is calculated using the first in first out method in the Flight Support segment, and weighted average method in the Aftermarket Services segment.
Provision is made for slow moving or obsolete inventory as appropriate.
indb 103 12 03 2014 12:45 Consolidated Financial Statements arising from the restructuring, and comprises those amounts Accounting Policies of the Group continued Accounting Policies of the Group that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not Borrowings associated with the ongoing activities ofthe entity.
Financial statements Interest bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at 93 Independent Auditors Report to fair value, which equates to proceeds less direct issue costs at Onerous contracts the members of BBA Aviation plc inception.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised 96 Consolidated Income Statement measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to method, except where they are identified as a hedged item in exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable 97 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income a fair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds, net of costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the 98 Consolidated Balance Sheet transaction costs, and the amount due on settlement is recognised economic benefits expected to be received under it.
99 Consolidated Cash Flow in the income statement over the term of the borrowings.
Statement Post-retirement benefits 100 Consolidated Statement of Trade and other payables Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes Changes in Equity Trade payables, excluding derivative liabilities, are not interest are charged as an expense as they fall due.
101 Accounting Policies of theGroup bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, 106 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Equity instruments with valuations under IAS 19R being carried out annually as 141 Company Balance Sheet Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the at 31 December.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in 142 Accounting Policies of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised theCompany outside of profit or loss and presented in the statement of 144 Notes to the Company Leases comprehensive income.
Financial Statements Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease The service cost of providing retirement benefits to 149 Principal Subsidiary and Associated Undertakings transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to employees during the year is charged to operating profit in the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Any past service cost is recognised immediately to 150 Five Year Summary Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised within the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise 151 Shareholder Information property, plant and equipment and the capitalisation values written is amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until off on a straight line basis over the shorter of the period of the the benefits become vested.
The interest cost on the net defined lease or the useful economic life of the asset.
Obligations to the benefit deficit is included within finance costs.
lessors relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance of future periods are recorded as liabilities.
The interest element sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit of the obligation is allocated over the lease term to produce a obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and constant rate of interest on the outstanding capital payments.
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets plus any additional Operating leases are not recognised in the Groups balance liability to be recognised in accordance with IFRIC 14 and the sheet.
The rental payments are charged to the income statement minimum funding requirement.
Any asset resulting from this on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
calculation is only recognised to the extent that it is recoverable.
Defined benefit scheme contributions are determined Provisions by valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable Share-based payments that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle The Group operates a number of cash and equity settled that obligation and the obligation can be reliably estimated.
The fair value of the The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate compensation is recognised in the income statement as an of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using granted and calculated using the valuation technique most the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its appropriate to each type of award.
These include Black-Scholes carrying amount is determined by discounting the expected calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
For cash settled future cash flows at an appropriate pre-tax discount rate.
options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance When some or all of the economic benefits required sheet date.
For both cash and equity-settled options, the Group to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected party, the receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually to become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
certain that reimbursement will be received on settlement of a related provision and the amount of the receivable can be Taxation measured reliably.
The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and comprises current and deferred taxation.
Current tax is calculated Restructurings at tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has as at the balance sheet date.
developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has Deferred taxation takes into account taxation deferred due raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out to temporary differences between the treatment of certain items the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or announcing for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is accounted f its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of or using the balance sheet liability method and is the tax expected a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditure to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying 104 BBA complete.
indb 104 12 03 2014 12:45 Consolidated Financial Statements amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and property, plant and equipment at the balance sheet date Accounting Policies of the Group the corresponding tax bases in the computation of taxable profit.
were $837.6 million 2012: $834.7 million, $219.7 million No provision is made for temporary differences on 2012: $174.1million and $557.0 million 2012: $511.5 million unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or respectively.
Details regarding the carrying value of goodwill, associates where the Group has control and the reversal of the intangible assets and property, plant and equipment and temporary difference is not foreseeable.
assumptions used in performing the impairment reviews The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at are provided in notes 8 and 9. each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available Inventories to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had $199.7 million Deferred tax is calculated at tax rates which have been 2012: $261.8million of inventories on its balance sheet, of enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and which $186.6million 2012: $250.2 million relates to the that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is Aftermarket Services division.
Judgement is necessary in settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited assessing the excess and obsolete inventory provision required.
in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged Key to the estimation of this provision is an assessment of the or credited to the statement of comprehensive income, in which remaining lives of the engine platforms, the estimated frequency case the deferred tax is also dealt with in the statement of of overhauls, the expected future usage of inventory based upon comprehensive income.
past experience and the level of write-offs in previous years.
Details of inventories and related provisions are provided in note 11.
Assets and associated liabilities classified as held for sale Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of Provisions carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising classified as held for sale if their net carrying amount will be provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related recovered through a sale transaction rather than through to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 18 to sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Judgement is necessary to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
or a liability will arise and to quantify the possible range of the When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss financial settlement.
Because of the inherent uncertainty in this of control of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the subsidiary are classified as held for sale when the criteria described originally estimated provision.
above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a non-controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits Determining the defined benefit obligation and the income Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation statement charge in respect of pension and other postuncertainty retirement benefit schemes requires an estimation of certain The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources assumptions which include the discount rate, inflation rate, of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a mortality and length of service.
These assumptions are significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying determined having taken advice from qualified actuaries.
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are The net pension liability related to defined benefit type schemes discussed below.
The judgements used by management in the at the balance sheet date was $57.6million 2012: $66.3 million.
application of the Groups accounting policies in respect of these Details regarding the carrying value and assumptions used in key areas of estimation are considered to be the most significant.
arriving at the carrying values are provided in note 19.
Revenue recognition Taxation In applying the Groups accounting policy on revenue As part of the process for preparing the Groups financial recognition, the Group exercises judgement in respect of the statements, management is required to calculate income percentage of completion of engines being overhauled and the tax accruals.
This process involves estimating the current tax categorisation of leases as being operating leases on engine exposures together with assessing temporary differences sales, when the engines are subsequently leased back.
resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences result in deferred tax assets and Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant liabilities, which are included in the balance sheet.
and equipment As at 31 December 2013, the Group had a corporate tax liability of $69.6 million 2012: $96.1 million.
While the Group Determining whether goodwill, intangible assets or property, plant and equipment are impaired requires an estimation of the aims to ensure the accruals for its tax liabilities are accurate, the process of agreeing tax liabilities with the relevant tax authorities value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill has been allocated or the individual assets.
The value in use can take several years.
Management judgement is therefore required in determining the provision for income tax and the calculation requires the entity to estimate future cash flows expected to arise from the cash-generating unit or asset and recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities: however, the actual tax liabilities could differ from the amounts accrued.
a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amounts of goodwill, intangible assets and As at 31 December 2013, the Group had a deferred tax liability 105 of$87.8 million 2012: $82.0 million.
