26 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 P erformance O PERATING RISK STATEMENT Risk is a natural constituent of any business and the management of risk is a key operating component of the Group.
The manner in which this is carried out is highly important to the long-term success of the business.
The Group hasidentied, evaluated and put in place strategies to mitigate the principal risks faced by the business, which are shown in the table below: Description of risk and Area of risk how it has changed during the year Mitigation of risk Land The inability to source suitable land at satisfactory Endeavour to ensure that a land bank with detailed planning margins would have a detrimental effect on permission forat least three years construction programme is theGroups land bank and consequently, itsfuture inplace on arolling basis.
During the year we have improved the Thorough pre-purchase due diligence and viability assessments.
way we purchase land to speed upthe negotiation Authorisation of land purchases in accordance with robust process.
This reduces the risk of the market Groupprocedures.
changing during negotiations and reduces costs.
Planning Delays and the complexity of the planning process Centralised and regional Planning Directors provide advice hamper and slow the Groups growth prospects.
andsupport to divisions to assist with progressing the process Changes to planning legislation and government forsecuring planning consent.
housing strategy continue to present risks to theGroup.
Sales Ensuring that the effects of any diminution in the In consultation with Head Office, local divisional management size of the marketplace, the ability of prospective determines product range and pricing strategy commensurate customers to access credit facilities or the sales withregional market conditions.
prices achieved are managed in such a way as to Use of sales incentives, where appropriate, to encourage the selling limit any adverse financial or operational effects on process, such as part-exchange and Express Mover.
Use of government-backed schemes to encourage home ownership, where appropriate.
Ensuring that construction rates are managed to ensure stock availability matches sales rates.
Construction Ensuring that appropriately skilled personnel Identifying training needs and allocating appropriate resources are available and that suitable materials are also totraining.
available at the right price.
This risk has increased Ensuring systems are in place for engaging, monitoring and during the year as the labour market has become controlling work carried out by sub-contractors.
more competitive and the lead time for the Ensuring competitive reward systems are in place.
provision of some materials has increased.
Ensuring Group purchasing arrangements are in place to secure materials at competitive prices.
Improving forward planning of the buying function to ensure increased lead times do not affect availability of materials on-site.
Environment Housebuilding has a significant effect on the It is our objective to ensure that, at the conclusion of a environment and it is important that the effects of development, an attractive and sustainable new environment has the Groups developments are, as far as possible, been created that will continue over time.
See our Environmental positive rather than negative.
Policy on page 21, or our website at www.
Health and It is important to ensure that the Group has The Board considers health and safety issues at each Safety adequate systems in place to mitigate, as far as Boardmeeting.
possible, the dangers to people inherent in the Regular visits to sites by senior management independent of our construction process.
divisions and external consultants to monitor health and safety standards and performance against the Groups health and safety policies and procedures.
Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 27 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Description of risk and Area of risk how it has changed during the year Mitigation of risk Personnel Attracting and retaining the correct personnel is key The Group offers competitive salary and benefits packages, and to the Groups long-term success.
Failure to do so keeps these under regular review.
will severely affect the Groups ability to perform in Divisional training plans are in place.
The labour market has Succession planning for key posts.
become increasingly competitive during the year.
90% of site workers including sub-contractors are fully accredited under CSCS.
Information It is vital that the Group has suitable information Group-wide systems are in operation which are centrally controlled Technology systems in place to ensure that, as far as possible, with an outsourced support function in place.
a smooth ow of information is transmitted throughout the Group and that the risk of system loss is mitigated and supported by appropriate contingency plans.
During the year the Group has increased its investment in information systems to improve information ow and system security.
Asset The way in which the Group carries out its The Group prepares viability assessments on all of its land Protection operations can have a material effect on the purchases and construction projects, and keeps these under regular valueofits assets.
review to protect, wherever possible, the value of its assets.
Treasury Ensuring suitable financial resources, at appropriate Central negotiation and control of banking facilities to ensure Management costs, are in place to meet Group requirements and liquidity and debt levels are appropriate.
Facilities derived from various sources.
Careful management and monitoring of cash forecasts.
Legal and Disadvantageous contractual obligations, Central secretariat, human resources and legal functions advise Regulatory regulatory fines or adverse publicity by failing to divisions on compliance and ensure policies and procedures are Compliance comply with current laws and regulations or failing kept up to date to minimise risk of non-compliance.
to have appropriately worded contracts in place.
In addition, the Board ensures that adequate insurance cover is maintained to underpin and support the many areas in which the Group is exposed to risk of loss.
