Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 87 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Other Information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Annual General Meeting AGM This section is important.
If you are in any doubt as to what action to take you should consult an appropriate independent financial adviser.
If you have sold or transferred all of your shares in Bellway p. l. c. you should pass this document and all accompanying documents to the person through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser ortransferee.
Special Business Seven Resolutions will be proposed as special business at the forthcoming AGM.
The effect of these resolutions is as follows: Resolutions 11 and 12 Appointment of auditor and authority to agree remuneration An auditor must be appointed at every AGM at which accounts are presented to the shareholders.
KPMG Audit Plc has advised the Company that, due to an internal reorganisation, it has decided to wind down its audit business and transfer it to KPMG LLP.
Consequently, KPMG Audit Plc has notied the Company that it is not seeking reappointment at the AGM and KPMG LLP has advised its willingness to stand for appointment as the auditor of the Company at the forthcoming AGM.
"The statement of circumstances required from KPMG Audit Plc under section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 is reproduced below: ""Statement to Bellway p. l. c. no."
1372603 on ceasing to hold ofce as auditors pursuant to section 519 of the Companies Act2006.
The circumstances connected with our ceasing to hold ofce are that our company, KPMG Audit Plc, has instigated an orderly wind down of business.
KPMG LLP, an intermediate parent, will immediately be seeking appointment as statutory auditor.
We request that any correspondence in relation to this statement be sent to our registered ofce at 15 Canada Square, London, E145GL marked for the attention of the Audit Regulation Department.
"Yours faithfully KPMG Audit Plc"" The Board recommends the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor following recommendation by the Audit Committee which has considered the circumstances of the change of auditor and conducted an evaluation of the auditors effectiveness, independence and objectivity."
The Board is also seeking authority to agree the remuneration of the auditor.
Resolution 13 Approval of new LTIP The Company's main existing long-term incentive arrangement for the Company's executive directors and other selected senior management is the Bellway p. l. c. 2004 Performance Share Plan 2004 PSP.
Since its approval by shareholders in January 2004, the 2004 PSP has provided for annual share-based awards, ordinarily vesting three years from grant, subject tocontinued service and also to the extent to which objective performance criteria are met over a three year measurement period.
The 2004 PSP reaches the end of its ten year life in January 2014.
The Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration theCommittee has recently undertaken a review of the 2004 Plan and has concluded that the directors should seek shareholder authority for a replacement plan, the Bellway p. l. c. 2013 Performance Share Plan 2013 PSP.
The terms of the 2013 PSP have been designed to materially continue with the existing terms under the 2004 PSP but with appropriate changes to bring the plan into line with prevailing best practice expectations.
A summary of the principal terms of the 2013 PSP is set out on pages 88 to 91.
A copy of the draft rules of the 2013 PSP will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company and at the ofces of New Bridge Street at 10 Devonshire Square, London EC2M 4YP during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and English public holidays excepted from the date of publication of this notice up to and including the date of the AGM and at the place of the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
Resolution 14 Authority to directors to issue shares This is an ordinary resolution which authorises the directors to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 5,073,836, which is equivalent to approximately one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 14 October 2013, and also gives the directors authority to allot, by way of rights issue only, ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 10,147,672 which is equivalent to approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 14October2013, such authority, if granted, to expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
As at 14 October 2013 the Company held no shares as treasury shares.
At present, the directors only intend to use this authority to satisfy the exercise of awards under the Companys share schemes.
The directors wish to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made if required and if suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
Resolution 15 Disapplication of pre-emption rights This is a special resolution and is the customary annual request, in substitution for the authority granted to the directors byshareholders on 11 January 2013 which expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM, that shareholders empower the directors to allot ordinary shares for cash without first offering them pro rata to existing shareholders as would otherwise be required by section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 a in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer and b otherwise than in connection with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer up to an aggregate nominal value of 761,075, being approximately equal to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 14 October 2013.
88 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Other Information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Resolution 16 Companys purchase of its own shares The Companys authority to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares, given at the last AGM, expires at the conclusion ofthe forthcoming AGM.
This authority was not used during the year.
The directors propose, as a special resolution, that it should be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the next AGM.
The directors will review opportunities to use this authority in light of stock market conditions and trading opportunities during the year.
The directors will only make purchases which will reduce the number of shares in issue after paying due attention to the effect on the nancing of the Group, its assets and earnings per share for the remaining shareholders.
Any shares purchased under this authority may be cancelled in which case the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly or may be held in treasury.
At 14 October 2013 there were options outstanding over 1,067,871 ordinary shares, representing 0.87% of the Company's issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority given by this resolution were to be fully used, these would represent 0.79% of the Company's issued ordinary share capital.
There are no warrants outstanding.
Details of any substantial shareholders holding more than 10% of the Company's issued ordinary share capital are included in the Notiable Shareholders' interests table on page 32.
It should be noted that the2014 redeemable preference shares are due to be redeemed on their redemption date of 6 April 2014 in accordance with the rights attaching to them, after which they will be cancelled.
Resolution 17 Length of notice of meeting Shareholder approval for general meetings of the Company, other than AGMs to be held on 14 days notice, given at the last AGM, expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
There is no current intention to use this authority and the Company will only consider using this authority where it is considered that this would be for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
Thedirectors propose, as a special resolution, that it should be renewed for a further year to expire on the date of the next AGM.
Recommendation The directors consider each of the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, accordingly they recommend voting in favour of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Summary of the Principal Terms of the Bellway p. l. c. 2013 Performance Share Plan 2013 the2013 PSP Operation The Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration the Committee will supervise the operation of the 2013 PSP hereinafter the Plan.
Eligibility Any employee including an executive director of the Company and its subsidiaries will be eligible to participate in the Plan at the discretion of the Committee.
It is currently anticipated that participation in the Plan will be limited to the Company's executive directors and selected senior management.
Grant of awards The Committee may grant awards to acquire ordinary shares in the Company shares within six weeks following the Companys announcement of its results for any period.
The Committee may also grant awards within six weeks of shareholder approval of the Plan or at any other time when the Committee considers there are sufciently exceptional circumstances which justify the granting of awards.
The Committee may grant awards as conditional share awards or nil or nominal cost options.
The Committee may also decide to grant cash-based awards of an equivalent value to share-based awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
An award may not be granted more than 10 years after shareholder approval of the Plan.
No payment is required for the grant of an award.
Awards are not transferable, except on death.
Individual limit An employee may not receive awards in any financial year over shares having a market value in excess of 150% of their annual base salary in that financial year.
Performance conditions The vesting of awards will be subject to performance conditions set by the Committee.
For the first awards granted under the Plan, one-half of each award will be subject to a performance condition based on the Company's total shareholder return TSR over three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award isgranted the Performance Period.
TSR measures the total return on a notional investment, expressed as a percentage.
TheCompany's TSR will be compared to a comparator group of seven other housebuilders: Barratt Developments plc, The Berkeley Group plc, Bovis Homes plc, Crest Nicholson plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc and Taylor Wimpey plc the Housebuilder TSR Target.
Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 89 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 No part of the awards subject to the Housebuilder TSR Target will vest unless the Company's TSR performance out performs the TSR of the median ranked company in the comparator group, with full vesting for out-performance of the median by an average of 7.5% p. a. or more over the Performance Period as follows: Percentage of the total number of shares subject to the The Companys TSR performance compared to the Housebuilder TSR Target that will vest subject to financial median TSR performance of the Comparator Group underpin see below Median TSR 7.5% p. a.
100% i. e. 50% of the total number of shares subject to the award Between median TSR and median TSR 7.5% p. a.
Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis i. e. between 12.5% and 50% of the total number of shares subject to the award Median TSR 25% i. e. 12.5% of the total number of shares subject to the award Less than median TSR 0% The other half of the first awards will be subject to a performance condition measuring the Company's TSR over the same Performance Period relative to a comparator group comprising the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and financial services companies the FTSE 250 TSR Target.
No part of the awards subject to the FTSE 250 TSR Target will vest unless the Company's TSR performance over the Performance Period is at least equal to the median of a ranking of the TSR of each of the members of the comparator group, with full vesting for performance of upper quartile or above as follows: Percentage of the total number of shares subject to the FTSE Rank of Company's TSR against the TSR of the 250 TSR Target that will vest subject to financial underpin see members of the comparator group below Upper quartile or above 100% i. e. 50% of the total number of shares subject to the Award Between 25% and 100% i. e. between 12.5% and 50% of the total Between median and upper quartile number of shares subject to the Award Median 25% i. e. 12.5% of the total number of shares subject to the Award Below median 0% Regardless of TSR performance, no part of the award will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company over the Performance Period, taking into account, amongst others, operating profit, operating margin, return on capital employed and net asset value.
To the extent that the Committee determines that such financial underpin has not been satisfied, it may scale back the level of vesting that would otherwise result under the above performance conditions to such extent as it considers appropriate, including to nil.
Three month averaging periods prior to the start and end of the Performance Period will apply, for the purposes of the TSRcalculations.
The Committee can set different performance conditions from that described above for future awards provided that, inthe reasonable opinion of the Committee, the new targets are not materially less challenging in the circumstances than the condition described above.
The Committee may also vary the performance conditions applying to existing awards if an event has occurred which causes theCommittee to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
Vesting of awards Awards normally vest three years after grant to the extent that the applicable performance conditions see above have been satisfied and provided the participant is still employed in the Company's group.
Options granted to individuals who are tax resident in the UK are then exercisable up until the day before the tenth anniversary of grant, unless they lapse earlier.
Longervesting periods, or holding periods for vested awards, may be set for future awards.
Dividend equivalents The Committee may decide that participants will receive a payment in cash and or shares on or shortly following the vesting oftheir awards, of an amount equivalent to the reinvestment of dividends.
Alternatively, participants may have their awards increased as if dividends were paid on the shares subject to their award and then reinvested in further shares.
90 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Other Information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Leaving employment As a general rule, an award will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold employment or be a director within the Company's group.
However, if a participant ceases to be an employee or a director because of injury or disability, retirement, redundancy, his employing company or the business for which he works being sold out of the Companys group or in other circumstances atthe discretion of the Committee, then his award will normally vest on the date when it would have vested if he had not ceased such employment or ofce.
The extent to which an award will vest in these situations will depend upon two factors: i the extent to which the performance conditions have, in the opinion of the Committee, been satisfied over the original three year performance measurement period, and ii pro rating of the award to reect the reduced period of time between its grant and vesting, although the Committee can decide not to pro rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
If a participant ceases to be an employee or director in the Companys group for one of the good leaver reasons specified above, the Committee can decide that his award will vest when he leaves, subject to: i the performance conditions measured atthat time: and ii pro rating by reference to the time of cessation as described above.
If a participant ceases to be an employee or director in the Company's group by reason of death, then his award will normally vest on the date of cessation.
The extent to which an award will vest in these situations will depend upon two factors: i the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied by reference to the date of cessation: and ii the pro rating ofthe award to reect the reduced period of time between its grant and vesting, although the Committee can decide not to prorate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Alternatively, the Committee can decide in exceptional circumstances that his award will vest on the date it would have vested had he not ceased employment orofce due to death, subject to: i the extent to which the performance conditions have, in the opinion of the Committee, been satisfied over the original three year performance measurement period, and ii pro rating of the award to reect the reduced period of time between its grant and vesting, although the Committee can decide not to pro rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Corporate events In the event of a takeover or winding up of the Company not being an internal corporate reorganisation all awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at that time: and ii the pro rating of the awards to reect the reduced period of time between their grant and vesting, although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation awards will be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a newholding company unless the Committee decides that awards should vest on the basis which would apply in the case ofatakeover.
If a demerger, special dividend or other similar event is proposed which, in the opinion of the Committee, would affect the market price of shares to a material extent, then the Committee may decide that awards will vest on such basis as it decides.
Participants rights Awards of conditional shares and options will not confer any shareholder rights until the awards have vested or the options have been exercised and the participants have received their shares.
Rights attaching to shares Any Shares allotted when an award vests or is exercised will rank equally with shares then in issue except for rights arising by reference to a record date prior to their allotment.
Variation of capital In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or in the event of a demerger, payment of a special dividend or similar event which materially affects the market price of the shares, the Committee may make such adjustment as it considers appropriate to the number of shares subject to an award and or the exercise price payable if any.
Overall Plan limits The Plan may operate over new issue shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the market.
In any ten calendar year period, the Company may not issue or grant rights to issue more than: a 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the Plan and any other employee share plan adopted by the Company: and b 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company under the Plan and any other executive share plan adopted by the Company.
Treasury Shares will count as new issue shares for the purposes of these limits unless institutional investors decide that they need not count.
Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 91 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Alterations to the Plan The Committee may, at any time, amend the Plan in any respect, provided that the prior approval of shareholders is obtained for any amendments that are to the advantage of participants in respect of the rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the overall limits on the issue of shares or the transfer of treasury shares, the basis for determining a participant's entitlement to, and the terms of, the shares or cash to be acquired and the adjustment of awards.
The requirement to obtain the prior approval of shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor alteration made to benefit the administration of the Plan, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or for any company in the Company's group.
Shareholder approval will also not be required for any amendments to any performance condition applying to an award.
Clawback The Committee may decide within one year of the vesting of an award or if later the date of publication of the first set of audited financial statements covering the financial year in which the vesting took place that the award will be subject to clawback where there has been a material misstatement in the Companys financial results, an error in assessing any applicable performance condition or in the event of cessation of service resulting from gross misconduct which damages the reputation or performance of the Company.
The clawback may be satisfied by way of a reduction in the amount of any future bonus, subsisting award, the vesting of any subsisting vested award or future share awards and or a requirement to make a cash payment.
Takeovers Directive Where not provided in the Directors Report the following sets out the information required to be provided to shareholders in compliance with the Takeovers Directive.
Share capital The Companys total issued ordinary and preference share capital as at 31 July 2013 consisted of 121,772,058 ordinary shares of 12.5p each representing 43% of the Companys total issued share capital and 20,000,000 9.5% Cumulative Redeemable Preference Shares 2014 of 1 each representing 57% of the Companys total issued share capital.
Further details of the issued capital of the Company and brief details of the rights in relation to the preference shares can be found in note 16 to the accounts.
The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and preference shares in the Company are set out in the Articles of Association the Articles.
Copies of the Articles can be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered ofce.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares The restrictions on the transfer of shares are set out in the Articles.
In addition, in compliance with the FSA Listing Rules, Company approval is required for directors, certain employees and their connected persons to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
No person has special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Rights in relation to the shares held in the employee benefit trust The voting rights on shares held in the Bellway Employee Share Trust 1992 in relation to the Companys employee share schemes are exercisable by the trustees.
Restrictions on voting rights Details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights are set out in the Companys Articles.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Appointment and replacement of directors The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Articles and are summarised intheDirectors Report on page 33.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all the directors are seeking annualre-election by shareholders, apart from Peter Johnson, who retires from the Board on 31 January 2014.
Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association The Company may amend its Articles by passing a special resolution at a general meeting of its shareholders.
Powers of the Board The business and affairs of the Company are managed by the directors, who may exercise all such powers of the Company as are not by law or by the Articles required to be exercised by the Company in general meetings.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles, all powers of the directors are exercised at meetings of the directors which have been validly convened and at which a quorum is present.
Allotment of shares During the year 321,261 new ordinary shares were issued to satisfy awards made under the Companys employee share schemes.
The directors have authority to allot shares within limits agreed by shareholders.
Details of the renewal of this authority are set out on page 87, and Resolutions 14 and 15 in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM to be held on 13 December 2013 on pages 94 and 95 seek to renew this authority.
Purchase of own shares The Company has not purchased any of its own shares during the year.
The directors have authority to purchase the Companys own shares within limits agreed by shareholders.
Details of the renewal of this authority are set out on page 88, and Resolution 16 in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM to be held on 13 December 2013 on page 95 seeks to renew this authority.
92 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Other Information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED significant agreements change of control provisions The Company is party to a number of banking agreements which may be terminable in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Agreements for compensation for loss of ofce following a change of control The service agreement between the Company and the Group Company Secretary contain provisions that entitle the individual to terminate the agreement following a takeover offer and receive an amount equivalent to 12 months salary, benets and the average amount of the last two years annual bonus payment.
Financial calendar Announcement of results and ordinary dividends Half year March Full year October Ordinary share dividend payments Interim July Final January Annual Report posted to shareholders November Final ordinary dividend ex-dividend date 11 December 2013 Final ordinary dividend record date 13 December 2013 AGM 13 December 2013 Final ordinary dividend payment date 15 January 2014 Preference share final dividend and redemption date 6 April 2014 Ordinary shareholders by size of holding at 31 July 2013 Holdings Shares Number % Holding % 0 2,000 1,685 68.75 1,082,054 0.89 2,001 10,000 400 16.32 1,719,555 1.41 10,001 50,000 151 6.16 3,649,426 3.00 50,001 and over 215 8.77 115,321,023 94.70 Total 2,451 100.00 121,772,058 100.00 Dividend Re-Investment Plan DRIP Shareholders may agree to participate in the Companys DRIP to receive dividends in the form of shares in Bellway p. l. c. instead of in cash.
The DRIP is provided by Capita Asset Services, a trading name of Capita IRG Trustees Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
For more information please call 0871 664 0381 calls to this number cost 10p per minute plus network extras or if calling from overseas 44 20 8639 3402.
Lines are open from 9.00 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday, excluding Bank Holidays.
Alternatively you can e-mail shares@capita.
com Non-sterling bank account If you live outside the UK, or have a non-sterling bank account, Capita can provide you with a service that will convert your sterling dividend into your local currency and send you the funds by currency draft, or pay them straight into your overseas bank account.
You can sign up for this service on the Share Portal by clicking on 'your dividend options' and following the on screen instructions or by contacting the Customer Support Centre.
For further information e-mail ips@capita.
co. uk or call 0871 664 0385 UK calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, or from overseas call 44 20 8639 3405.
Lines are open from 9.00 am to5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding Bank Holidays.
Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 93 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Share dealing service The Companys registrars, Capita Asset Services, provide a share dealing service to existing shareholders to buy or sell the Companys shares.
Online and telephone dealing facilities provide an easy to access and simple to use service.
For further information on this service, or to buy or sell shares, please contact: www.
com for online dealing, or telephone 0871 664 0454 for telephone dealing.
Please note that the directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell their shares in the Company.
Shareholders in any doubt as to what action to take are recommended to seek financial advice from an independent financial adviser, authorised under the terms of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Discount to shareholders The following discount arrangement is currently available to shareholders.
Should you intend to purchase a new Bellway home, you will be entitled to a discount of 2,000 per 25,000, or pro rata on part thereof, of the purchase price provided that: a you have been the registered holder of at least 2,000 ordinary shares for a minimum period of 12 months prior to the reservation of your new home: and b you inform our sales representative on-site when reserving your property that you are claiming shareholder discount.
The above discount arrangement is only available to shareholders on the Companys Register of Members.
Employees of investing companies or members of investing institutions would not therefore be eligible.
Underlying beneficial shareholders would be entitled to benefit from the arrangements.
For further details please contact the Group Company Secretary, Bellway p. l. c. Seaton Burn House, Dudley Lane, Seaton Burn, Newcastle upon Tyne NE13 6BE, telephone 0191 217 0717 or e-mail investor.
beneficial owners of shares with Information Rights beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita Asset Services, or to the Company directly.
Corporate Responsibility reporting Further reporting on the Companys Corporate Responsibility activities is available to view in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Groups website www.
