Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 15 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 P erformance C ORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Through sustainable construction we aim to create new demonstrate continual improvement in our communities and lasting environments for people now approach to sustainable developments and in the future.
Using our skills, and in consultation in both design and practice.
with our partners, we aim to enhance the environment recognise and respond to the challenges and in which we are working and secure the advantages opportunities that are presented by climate change.
that this offers to Bellway, its shareholders, employees and customers.
invest in the communities we develop in a way that contributes to local community needs.
Bellway believes that its reputation is critical to the creation of long-term value for its shareholders.
We manage our environmental footprint and aim to recognise that financial success is reinforced by our enhance our performance in areas where we behaviour beyond the balance sheet.
Protecting and operate, particularly in relation to energy and waste.
enhancing our reputation and social licence to operate consider and respond to the social and are significant elements of sustained financial success.
environmental effects of the homes we develop At Bellway, the term Corporate Responsibility andcommunities that we create.
describes how we manage the environmental, social and economic effects of our business.
The following structure has been put in place to achieve these commitments: Through Bellways commitment to corporate responsibility we: the Chief Executive is responsible for this policy and reports to the Board and external stakeholders on engage and respond to stakeholders, performance in relation to all corporate responsibility , employees, customers, matters.
government and communities that we affect, therebyimproving internal and external awareness.
the Chief Executive is supported by the Corporate Responsibility Group which includes senior comply with all relevant legislation as employees from within the Group who are aminimumstandard.
responsible for the development and review of this work towards recognised good practice in policy.
They in turn delegate to managers within sustainability and corporate responsibility.
each of the divisions who are responsible for implementation.
treat all employees fairly and invest in training for themedium and long term to bring out the best Bellway is committed to reporting annually on inour people.
its approach to corporate responsibility and has established key performance indicators to enable provide a healthy and safe environment in which others to judge our performance.
This policy does not towork through an effective health and safety replace existing policies in relation to environmental management system.
issues and health and safety, but has been developed to work in conjunction with them.
All policies are available on the Bellway website www.
co. uk and are reviewed annually.
Above Burying a time capsule withpupils from WallyfordPrimary School, Wallyford, East Lothian 16 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 P erformance 20 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Introduction The protection of the environment and working Marley Eternit, our supplier of roof tiles was the with communities to develop new homes that are first roong manufacturer in the UK to achieve an both efficient and sustainable is fundamental to independent carbon footprint certication for all of the continued success of our business.
Resource its roong products and certies the total amount of management is one of the most important aspects carbon dioxide CO and other greenhouse gases 2 of our business.
Our customers and investors are emitted in the production and use of a product at increasingly interested in how we adjust to changing every stage throughout its lifecycle.
For Bellway, resource management is We purchase timber from a variety of suppliers and about land use, consumption of materials and how in accordance with our timber procurement policy theyare used and where they are sourced.
we specify that all timber products must comply with During the last 12 months we have closely examined either FSC or PEFC credentials.
In March 2013, a new the environmental credentials of our supply chain EU regulation came into force which prohibits placing partners to ensure that every day decision-making timber on the EU market if it was illegally harvested.
is not compromising our environmental aims In accordance with these new guidelines we have put andobligations.
in place procedures to ensure that all timber used by Bellway has been harvested from legitimate sources.
We work with hundreds of supply chain partners who provide us with goods and services, ranging from Managing consumption bricks and blocks to roof trusses and kitchen ttings.
In managing the environmental integrity of our supply Throughout the year we have been monitoring our chain we require all suppliers to provide details of their consumption of gas, electricity, petrol, diesel and environmental credentials as a prerequisite of entering the amount of waste we generate.
With assistance into a contract with Bellway.
from the environmental consultancy, Trucost, we have collated this data to ensure that we can report Supply chain our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the regulations that came into effect To achieve a more energy efficient home we focus on on 1 October 2013.
Furthermore, the actions we have the fabric of the materials that we use in construction, taken enable us to set realistic targets for the future concentrating on highly insulated walls, windows and which will help us to reduce ourcarbon footprint.
We then ensure that our homes are airtight and use mechanical ventilation systems to maintain good Climate change air quality and comfort.
Where appropriate, we use low-carbon and renewable technologies such as solar The new homes we build are considerably more panels, photovoltaic panels PV, combined heat and energy efficient than older housing.
New building power plants and air and ground source heat pumps.
regulations introduced in 2010 require all new homes to achieve a 25% reduction in carbon emissions The selection of the appropriate materials is essential compared with the 2006 regulations.
There will be in developing a sustainable building.
For example, the further changes to building regulations as the industry Thermalite aerated concrete blocks we use offer high moves towards building carbon neutral homes Code thermal insulation and contain up to 80% recycled Level 6 by 2016.
This year we completed 5,652 homes, material pulverised fuel ash.
Thermalite was one of the of these 28% were constructed to Code Level 3 and 4% first blocks to receive a Certied Environmental Prole achieved Code Level 4. and eco-points score from the Building Research Establishment, achieving an A rating in the Green As an example of our commitment to more energy Guide to Specication.
Its manufacturers, Hanson, efficient properties, our development in east London, employ a strict waste minimisation scheme that So Stepney, includes a community heating system.
ensures that all surplus materials used in its production This comprises a combined heat and power unit are recycled into the next mix, used in other products that provides a highly efficient heating system for or used as an aggregate bulk ll replacement in our residents and also generates electricity that is roadconstruction.
returned to the national grid.
This is one of the most carbon efficient systems available and is well suited Our principal supplier of bricks, Ibstock, has achieved to apartment schemes where the residents benefit BES 6001 accreditation across all of its manufacturing from lower energy costs and will always have hot water sites and we recognise their policy for responsible on demand.
The system will be the responsibility sourcing of construction products and demonstrating of the community heating scheme operator who that a building material has been produced in a way is contracted to maintain the system and provide that has minimised its environmental effect, and competitive rates for its energy against traditional issustainable.
heating systems, thus ensuring that our customers benefit from reduced energy bills.
Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 17 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 At Roby Park in Liverpool we have provided homes Also in east London in Hackney, we have entered with air source heat pumps, which are designed to into a collaboration with the Peabody Trust as part heat homes using thermal energy from the outside air.
of their programme of estate renewal to create The heat pumps generate heat to warm radiators and Pembury Circus.
This enabled us to share our skills in provide hot water and can lower fuel bills by up to 300 regeneration to return a redundant site to residential over the course of a year.
use and provide 149 private apartments, 40 shared equity apartments and 79 apartments for rent.
The PV panels are now more widely used throughout our development was thoughtfully planned to provide developments across the country.
To help maintain a range of on-site community facilities including a the affordability of our homes and to meet planning crche, community centre, gym and roof terrace.
obligations and Code for Sustainable Homes requirements, we have entered into a partnership Employment opportunities with a renewable energy company to provide our customers with free solar panels tted in return for a Apart from the obvious change to the built 20 year roof lease.
The initiative gives customers the environment, redevelopment can also provide opportunity to generate their own electricity and thus important employment opportunities.
In east London reduce their energy bills.
we are working in a consortium to regenerate the Ocean Estate in Stepney.
Arising from this Land development and working with Tower Hamlets Council, East Thames Housing and Skillsmatch, Central to our business is the procurement of land the development by the consortium has provided suitable for residential development.
Increasingly, employment opportunities for 65 local people who planning policy favours the use of browneld sites, had been unemployed for several months or, in some particularly in urban areas.
Here there is a greater cases, years, with the east end of Londons biggest potential to affect neighbouring communities through housing regeneration scheme.
Prior to us submitting a planning application, we undertake a series of public Focus on customer satisfaction engagement events to present our plans to local people.
This consultation process enables us to We know that Bellways best advert is a satisfied gauge opinion and make any revisions which improve customer, which is why we devote so much time the balance between the demands of our business to making sure that our homes match and exceed in conjunction with providing for the needs of our our customers expectations.
We continually review residents and their communities.
our customer care procedures to ensure that we In the West Midlands, in Coleshill, near Birmingham, are providing the best possible service.
Our efforts we are working in partnership with the Father have been rewarded this year as we have retained Hudson Society where we have plans to replace our 5 rating awarded by the HBF and increased existing buildings with a high quality scheme of our customer satisfaction score by reference to the townhouses, retirement apartments and new ofce question Would you recommend a Bellway home?
Specialist heritage architects have to 94.8%.
In addition, we are also very pleased to been appointed to design the scheme, which includes report that we have received 27 NHBC Pride in the a bespoke design proposal to ensure that the new Job Quality Awards, which further reects the skills development complements its surroundings and anddedication of our workforce.
In east London, in the Borough of Tower Hamlets, in partnership with the housing association, Family Mosaic, we have redeveloped the former Festival of Britain site to create New Festival Quarter.
The site, measuring 4.75 acres, has enabled us to provide 490 homes for open market sale, shared equity and rent, close to Canary Wharf and several transport hubs.
New Festival Quarter is providing affordable housing as well as being an important feature of Tower Hamlets wider regeneration aspirations.
Right Pembury Circus, London Borough of Hackney 18 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 19 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 P erformance 20 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT CONTINUED Prioritising health and safety Community and infrastructure support The management of health and safety is a vitally The granting of planning permission triggers financial important part of our day-to-day operations and it support from Bellway to benefit the communities is our aim to create an accident free environment.
This year we have Underpinning this aim is a comprehensive Health provided 44.2 million which has been used to and Safety Policy and associated health and safety support education initiatives, transport and highway procedures and practices.
improvements, health facilities and open spaces.
In addition, our employees involve themselves in many We take a proactive approach to managing health and local charitable projects and Bellway has provided safety on our sites and this includes visits by our ina total of 77,699 to many charities throughout the house health and safety team who review procedures country, both large and small, including national and ensure that the requirements of our Health and charities, such as the Alzheimers Society, British Safety Policy are being adhered to.
NHBC safety Heart Foundation, Cancer Research UK, Centrepoint, consultants also regularly visit our sites and undertake Groundwork, Help for Heroes, NSPCC, Princes Trust, health and safety audits.
The ensuing reports are RSPB, Shelter and Woodland Trust.
reviewed by management and actions are taken to remedy items of non-compliance and or the sharing Behaving responsibly and running a sustainable ofbest practice.
business that considers and addresses the social, economic and environmental issues that concern our Our on-site induction process and regular tool box stakeholders makes eminently good business sense.
talks help us to maintain the competency of our staff We remain committed to improving our environmental and sub-contractors.
90% of our employees carry a credentials and will continue to report progress CSCS card.
CSCS is the largest competence-based annually.
Further information can also be found scheme in the construction industry, covering 220 core onourcorporate responsibility website: trades and also requires supervisors and operatives http: www.
topass a mandatory health and safety test.
Protecting wildlife In all development processes we take account of the presence of existing biodiversity habitats and work with local agencies to manage the requirements of these natural areas.
We ensure that, when necessary, the appropriate level of care and attention is taken to preserve or enhance these areas.
Anexample of this approach can be seen at Hinckley in Leicestershire where, as part of constructing The Greens development, we have relocated and created a newhabitat for a colony of great crested newts.
We have also provided bat garages and installed bat sensitive lighting at several developments throughout the country.
Left The RSPBs Craig Hartley receiving a donation of 5,000 from Bellway Sales Manager Paula Murdoch Opposite Work in progress on a block ofats
