Overview Performance Governance Accounts Other Information 97 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Other Information GLOSSARY Affordable Housing Social rented and intermediate housing provided to specified eligible households whose needs are not met by the market, at a cost low enough for them to afford, determined with regard to local incomes and local house prices.
Average Selling Price Calculated by dividing the total price of homes sold by the number of homes sold.
Browneld Sites Land which has been previously used for other purposes.
Building Research Establishment BRE BRE carries out research, consultancy and testing for the construction and built environment sectors.
Cancellation Rate The rate at which customers withdraw from a house purchase after paying the reservation fee, but before contracts are exchanged, usually due to difficulties in obtaining mortgage finance.
Reservation fees are refunded in line with the Consumer Code for Home Builders.
Code for Sustainable Homes A national standard for sustainable design and construction of new homes.
The Code measures the whole home as a complete package, assessing its sustainability against nine categories: energy CO, water, materials, surface water run-off, waste, 2 pollution, health and well-being, management and ecology.
Level 3 applies to newly-constructed affordable housing subject to Homes and Communities Agency HCA grant policy and all homes built on HCA land from 1 April 2008.
Level 3 differs from Level 4 primarily in respect of the energy CO levels.
Level 3 seeks a 25% reduction in CO emissions compared with the 2006 2 2 Building Regulations requirements whereas Level 4 requires a 44% reduction.
Considerate Constructors Scheme A national initiative by the construction industry, where companies and sites voluntarily register and agree to be monitored against a Code of Considerate Practice, with a view to promoting best practice beyond statutory requirements.
Consumer Code for Home Builders A voluntary code governing customer service and satisfaction, created by the NHBC in conjunction with MD Insurance Services Limited.
CSCS Cards The CSCS card denotes achievement of a Construction Skills Certicate, demonstrating occupational competence in the construction industry under the Construction Skills Certicate Scheme.
EcoHomes An environmental rating scheme for UK homes.
FSC The Forest Stewardship Council is an international, non-governmental organisation which promotes responsible management of the worlds forests and certies timber as having been produced from a forest which is managed in an environmentally responsible and socially beneficial manner.
Green Guide The Green Guide is part of BREEAM BRE Environmental Assessment Method an accredited environmental rating scheme forbuildings.
HBF is an industry body representing the home building industry in England and Wales.
It represents member interests on a national and regional level to create the best possible environment in which to deliver the homes the country needs.
Help to Buy The Help to Buy equity loan scheme is a government scheme which provides equity loans to both first-time buyers and home movers on new-build homes worth up to 600,000.
Buyers have to contribute at least 5% of the property price as a deposit, and obtain a mortgage of up to75% and the government provides a loan for up to 20% of the price.
The Help to Buy mortgage guarantee scheme helps people buy a home with a 5% deposit to get a 95% mortgage.
The government gives a guarantee to the lender of up to 15% of the value of the property.
Land Bank A supply of plots owned with a detailed planning permission and pipeline plots.
Lifetime Homes Are ordinary homes incorporating 16 Design Criteria which add to the comfort and convenience of the home and support the changing needs of individuals and families at different stages of life.
National Planning Policy Framework The National Planning Policy Framework sets out the Governments planning policies for England and how these are expected to be applied.
It provides a framework within which local people and their accountable councils can produce their own distinctive local and neighbourhood plans, which reect the needs and priorities of their communities.
NewBuy NewBuy is the government backed mortgage indemnity scheme that aims to help people with smaller deposits buy a new build home.
NewBuy overcomes this so called deposit gap by allowing them to get a mortgage with a minimum 5% deposit.
98 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Other Information GLOSSARY CONTINUED NHBC National House-Building Council.
NHBC is the leading warranty, insurance provider and body responsible for setting standards of construction for UK housebuilding for new and newly converted homes.
PEFC The Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certication is an international non-profit, non-governmental organisation which promotes sustainable forest management and certies timber as having been produced from a forest which is managed in an environmentally responsible and socially beneficial manner.
Pipeline Plots which are either owned or contracted, often conditionally, pending an implementable detailed planning permission.
Planning Consent Permission Usually granted by the local planning authority, this permission allows a plot of land to be built on, change its use or, for an existing building, be redeveloped or altered.
Consent is either outline when detailed plans are still to be approved, or detailed when detailed plans have been approved.
Photovoltaic panels Solar panel electricity systems, also known as solar photovoltaics PV, capture the suns energy using photovoltaic cells.
These cells dont need direct sunlight to work they can still generate some electricity on a cloudy day.
The cells convert the sunlight into electricity, which can be used to run household appliances and lighting.
PV cells are made from layers of semi-conducting material, usually silicon.
When light shines on the cell it creates an electric eld across the layers.
The stronger the sunshine, the more electricity is produced.
Rainwater Harvesting Rainwater harvesting is a system by which rainwater is collected from roofs, stored in underground tanks and then used in toilets and for garden irrigation.
Rainwater harvesting can reduce household water consumption by up to 50%.
Registered Providers Government funded organisations that provide affordable housing.
These can be either non-profit making, such as housing associations, trusts and co-operatives, or profit making, such as housebuilders.
Working alongside local authorities, they provide homes for people meeting the affordable homes criteria.
As well as developing land and building homes, Registered Providers also perform a landlord function by maintaining properties and collecting rent.
Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA RoSPA is a registered charity which promotes safety and the prevention of accidents at work, at leisure, on the road, in the home and through safety education.
Safemark Certicate NHBCs Health & Safety Competence Assessment Scheme.
Section 106 Planning Agreements These are legally-binding agreements or planning obligations entered into between a landowner and a local planning authority, under section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.
These agreements are a way of delivering or addressing matters that are necessary to make a development acceptable in planning terms.
They are increasingly used to support the provision of services and infrastructure, such as highways, recreational facilities, education, health and affordable housing.
Secured by Design Is the ofcial UK Police initiative supporting designing out crime and focuses on crime prevention at the design, layout and construction stages of homes and commercial premises and promotes the use of security standards for a wide range of applications and products.
For more information see www.
Social Housing Housing that is let at low rents and on a secure basis to people in housing need.
It is generally provided by councils and not-forprofit organisations such as housing associations.
Sustainability Environmental sustainability has been dened as meeting the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs.
Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems SUDS Designed to reduce the environmental effects of surface water run-off, which has been a problem with conventional drainage systems, particularly in new developments.
SUDS replicate natural systems with minimal environmental effect, draining away dirty and surface water through collection, storage and cleaning.
Total Shareholder Return TSR TSR measures the full returns earned by an investment over the period of ownership, including any dividend cashows paid during that period, and demonstrates how well a company has created value for shareholders.
Transport Node A point at which residents are able to access a public transport facility with ease.
Thin Joint Technology Thin joint technology uses autoclaved aerated concrete blocks with 2mm3mm mortar joints.
The blocks are produced to a high degree of accuracy, and the thin layer mortar sets more rapidly than normal mortar, reducing the length of time before the wall becomes stable.
The advantages of this system of construction are high build quality, greater productivity, improved thermal performance, air-tightness and waste reduction.
