Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2013 1.
General information The term underlying refers to the relevant measure of profit, Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the earnings or taxation being reported excluding the following items: Group is a global real estate services Group.
The Group operates through a network of offices in the UK, Continental amortisation of intangible assets excluding software : Europe, Asia Pacific, US, Africa and the Middle East.
Savills is impairment of goodwill and intangible assets: listed on the London Stock Exchange and employs 26,287 staff impairment of investment in available-for-sale investments, worldwide.
joint ventures or associated undertakings: the difference between IFRS 2 charges related to in year The Company is a public limited company incorporated and profit related performance compensation subject to deferral domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered and the opportunity cash cost of such compensation office is 33 Margaret Street, London W1G 0JD.
refer to Note 8 and Note 14 b for further explanation : restructuring costs that are not considered part of the normal These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2014. course of business: significant acquisition costs related to business combinations: 2.
Accounting policies and The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of profits or losses on disposals of subsidiaries, investments these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These in available-for-sale investments, joint ventures and policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, associated undertakings.
unless otherwise stated, and are also applicable to the parent Company.
Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include those of the Basis of preparation Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the These financial statements have been prepared in accordance Groups share of results of its associates and joint ventures.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS IC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with Subsidiaries those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities reporting under IFRS.
over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and for effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable management to exercise judgement in the process of applying or convertible are considered when assessing whether the the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher Group controls another entity.
The Group also assesses degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions existence of control where it does not have more than 50% and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial of the voting power but is able to govern the financial and statements, are disclosed in Note 5. operating policies by virtue of fide-facto control.
fide-facto control may arise in circumstances where the size of the Groups voting The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of other and under the historical cost convention as modified by the shareholders give the Group the power to govern the financial revaluation of available-for-sale investments and derivative and operating policies.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control Use of non-GAAP measures is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the The Group believes that the consistent presentation of Underlying date that control ceases.
profit before tax, Underlying effective tax rate, Underlying basic earnings per share and Underlying diluted earnings per share The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting to provides additional useful information to shareholders on the account for business combinations.
The consideration underlying trends and comparable performance of the Group transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values over time.
They are used by Savills for internal performance of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for interests issued by the Group.
These terms are not defined terms under IFRS includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit a contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
82 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is The Groups share of its associates post-acquisition profits or recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent losses is recognised in the income statement and its share of changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The cumulative with IAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change to other post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying comprehensive income.
Contingent consideration that is amount of the investment.
When the Groups share of losses classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, settlement is accounted for within equity.
including any other unsecured receivables, the Group does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred legal or Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling the associate.
interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in profit or loss.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the Inter-company transactions, balances, income and expenses on asset transferred.
transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Profits and losses resulting from inter-company transactions that are Accounting policies of associates have been aligned to ensure recognised in assets are also eliminated.
Accounting policies consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Gains and of subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure losses on dilution of the Groups share of equity in associates consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
are recognised in the income statement.
Investments in subsidiaries held by the Company are held at Joint ventures cost, less any provision for impairment.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to Non-controlling interests joint control, which exists only when the strategic financial and Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions that consent of the venturers.
The Groups joint ventures are is, as transactions with the owners in their capacity as owners.
accounted for using the equity method.
The difference between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of Segment reporting the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision maker.
The chief operating decision maker, who is responsible for When the Group ceases to have control or significant influence, allocating resources and assessing performance of the operating any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value, segments, has been identified as the Group Executive Board.
with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purpose A business segment is a group of assets and operations of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an engaged in providing products or services that are subject to associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any risks and returns that are different from those of other business amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive segments.
A geographical segment is engaged in providing income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the products or services within a particular economic environment Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
that is subject to risks and returns that are different from those This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other of segments operating in other economic environments.
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
As the Group is strongly affected by both differences in the types If the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant of services it provides and the geographical areas in which it influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts operates, the matrix approach of disclosing both the business previously recognised in other comprehensive income are and geographical segments formats is used.
reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
Revenues and expenses are allocated to segments on the basis Associates that they are directly attributable or the relevant portion can be Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant allocated on a reasonable basis.
influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in Foreign currency translation associates are accounted for using the equity method and are Functional and presentation currency initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment in associates Items included in the financial statements of each of the includes goodwill net of any accumulated impairment loss Groups entities are measured using the currency of the identified on acquisition see Note 17 a. primary economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is also the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Savills plc 83 Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2013 continued Transactions and balances Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional Separately recognised goodwill is tested annually for impairment, currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from potential impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised for the the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at amount by which the carrying value exceeds the recoverable year end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of value in use and denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in the income fair value less costs of disposal.
Impairment losses on goodwill statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income are not reversed.
as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets and of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cashliabilities are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are recognised in the income statement, except for available-for-sale expected to benefit from the business combination in which the equity investments, which are recognised in other comprehensive goodwill arose.
The Group allocates goodwill to each business income.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are segment in the geographical region in which it operates Note 15. reported using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying Group entities amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated Intangible assets other than goodwill to the Groups presentational currency at foreign exchange rates Intangible assets acquired as part of business combinations ruling at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign and incremental contract costs are valued at fair value operations are translated at an average rate for the year where on acquisition and amortised over the useful life.
Fair value on this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the acquisition is determined by third-party valuation where dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the operations are taken directly to the foreign exchange reserve.
basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the specific software.
Costs associated with maintaining computer relevant amount in the foreign exchange reserve is transferred software programs are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by Property, plant and equipment the Group are recognised as intangible assets when the following Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less criteria are met: accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost includes expenditure directly attributable to acquisition.
it is technically feasible to complete the software product so that it will be available for use: Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount management intends to complete the software product or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when and use or sell it: it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with there is an ability to use or sell the software product: the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be it can be demonstrated how the software product will measured reliably.
generate probable future economic benefits: adequate technical, financial and other resources to Provision for depreciation is made at rates calculated on a complete the development and to use or sell the software straight-line basis to write off the assets over their estimated useful lives as follows: product are available: and the expenditure attributable to the software product during its development can be reliably measured.
Freehold property 50 years Short leasehold property Over unexpired Measurement subsequent to initial recognition is at cost less less than 50 years term of lease accumulated amortisation and impairment.
Equipment and motor vehicles 3 6 years Amortisation charges are spread on a straight-line basis over the Residual values and useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if period of the assets estimated useful lives as follows: appropriate, at each reporting date.
Customer business relationships 6 10 years An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater Brands 5 years than its estimated recoverable amount.
Investment and property management contracts 2 10 years Computer software 3 5 years Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of a Acquired investment management contracts relating to opensubsidiary or associate over the Groups share of the fair value ended funds have been attributed indefinite useful lives.
of identifiable net assets acquired.
In respect of associates, goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment.
84 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Impairment of other non-financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Assets that have indefinite useful lives are not subject to Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits amortisation or depreciation and are tested annually for held on call with banks, together with other short-term highly impairment or whenever an indicator of impairment exists.
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are less and working capital overdrafts, which are subject to an reviewed for impairment whenever an indicator of impairment insignificant risk of changes in value.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the included under borrowings in the statement of financial position.
carrying value exceeds the higher of the assets fair value less cost to sell and its value-in-use.
Prior impairments of nonBank borrowings financial assets other than goodwill are reviewed for possible Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially reversal at each reporting date.
measured at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Value-in-use is determined using the discounted cash flow interest rate method.
method, with an appropriate discount rate to reflect market rates and specific risks associated with the asset.
Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value and For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable interest rate method.
Trade payables are classified as current cash flows cash-generating units.
Where it is not possible to liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the are presented as non-current liabilities.
Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date Financial instruments a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups remeasured at fair value.
The method of recognising the statement of financial position at fair value when the Group resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
designated as a hedging instrument and if so, the nature of Subsequent measurement depends on the classification and is the item being hedged.
discussed in the following paragraphs.
Certain derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting.
In these Available-for-sale investments cases, changes in the fair value of all derivative instruments are Available-for-sale investments are stated at fair value, with recognised immediately in the income statement.
changes in fair value being recognised in other comprehensive income.
When such investments are disposed or become Offsetting financial instruments impaired, the accumulated gains and losses, previously Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount recognised in other comprehensive income, are recognised reported in the balance sheet where there is a legally enforceable in the income statement.
right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability Trade receivables simultaneously.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost less provision for Share capital impairment.
Receivables are discounted where the time value Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs of money is material.
directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established When share capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of charge to equity.
Repurchased shares which are not cancelled, the receivables.
Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, or shares purchased for the Employee Benefit Trust, are probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial classified as treasury shares and presented as a deduction reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are from total equity.
considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the Taxation assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of income or directly in equity.
In this case, the tax is also an allowance account, and the amount of the loss is recognised recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
in the income statement within other operating expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollected, it is written off against the The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the allowance account for trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet of amounts previously written off are credited against other date in the countries where the company and its subsidiaries operating expenses in the income statement.
operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Savills plc 85 Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2013 continued Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on The Group also operates a defined contribution Group Personal temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets Pension Plan for new entrants and a number of defined and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated contribution individual pension plans.
Contributions in respect financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not of defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: income statement when they are payable.
The Group has no deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from the initial further payment obligations once the contributions have been recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a paid.
Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the business combination that at the time of the transaction affects extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date and The net defined benefit cost is allocated amongst participating are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax Group subsidiaries on the basis of pensionable salaries.
asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
Share-based payments Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available plans.
The fair value of the employee services received in against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates except Non-market vesting conditions are included in assumptions for deferred income tax liability where the timing of the reversal about the number of options that are expected to vest.
The of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is total expense is recognised over the vesting period, which is the probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the period over which all of the specified vesting conditions are to be foreseeable future.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimate of the number of options that are expected to vest Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises the is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
and liabilities relate to income tax levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable All equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant net basis.
date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Pension obligations Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
The Group operates both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate measured by the use of the Actuarial Binomial option pricing entity.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay model.
At each reporting date, the Group revises its estimates of further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if the current and prior periods.
A defined benefit plan is a pension any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee to equity over the remaining vesting period.
The cash proceeds will receive on retirement, usually dependent on one or more received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are factors, such as age, years of service and compensation.
credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are exercised.
The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of Employee Benefit Trust the defined benefit obligation at the reporting date less the fair The Company has established the Savills plc 1992 Employee value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated Benefit Trust the EBT, the purposes of which are to grant annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit awards to employees, to acquire shares in the Company method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is pursuant to the Savills Deferred Share Bonus Plan and the determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows.
Savills Deferred Share Plan and to hold shares in the Company for subsequent transfer to employees on the vesting of the The defined benefit scheme charge consists of net interest awards granted under the schemes.
The assets and liabilities costs, past service costs and the impact of any settlements or of the EBT are included in the Group statement of financial curtailments and is charged as an expense as they fall due.
Investments in the Groups own shares are shown as a deduction from equity.
All actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
86 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 | | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Professional indemnity claims Annual management fees are recognised, gross of costs, in the Provisions on professional indemnity claims are recognised period to which the service has been provided, in accordance when it is probable that the Group will be required to settle with the contracted fee agreements.
Transaction fees are claims against it as a result of a past event and the amount recognised on the date of completion of a purchase or sale of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Distribution fees are recognised on the completion of a signed subscription agreement and performance fees are Dilapidation provisions recognised as earned and when approved by the fund.
The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs and restore properties to agreed specifications on leased properties Work in progress prior to the properties being vacated at the end of their lease Work in progress generally relates to consultancy revenue and is term.
Provision for such cost is made where a legal obligation stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes is identified and the liability can be reasonably quantified.
an appropriate proportion of overheads.
Onerous leases Interest income A provision is recognised where the costs of meeting the Interest income is recognised on a time-proportion basis using obligations under a lease contract exceed the economic benefits the effective interest method.
expected to be received and is measured as the net least cost of exiting the contract, being the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and Dividend income any compensation or penalties arising from the failure to fulfil it.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Restructuring provision A provision is recognised when there is a present constructive Other income obligation to meet the costs of restructure.
This arises when Other income includes interest and dividend income on availablethere is a detailed formal plan for the restructuring, identifying for-sale investments plus fair value gains and losses on assets at at least the business or part of the business concerned, fair value through profit or loss.
principal locations affected and the location, function and approximate number of employees to be compensated for Leases terminating their services and when the plan has been Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has communicated to those affected by it, raising an expectation substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified that the plan will be carried out.
Revenue Finance lease assets are initially recognised at an amount Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the receivable for the provision of services in the ordinary course of minimum lease payments at inception of the lease.
The assets the Groups activities.
Revenue is shown net of value-added tax are then depreciated over the lower of the lease terms or the and amounts due to third parties and after elimination of revenue estimated useful lives of the assets.
The capital elements of future obligations under finance leases Residential transactional fees are included as liabilities in the statement of financial position.
Generally, where contracts are unconditional, revenue is Leasing payments comprise capital and finance elements and recognised on exchange of contracts.
However, on more the finance element is charged to the income statement.
complex contracts, revenue will be recognised on the date of completion.
On multi-unit developments, revenue is recognised The annual payments under all other lease agreements operating on a staged basis, based on each contract, commencing when leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line the underlying contracts are exchanged.
basis over the lease term.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into the operating lease are also spread on a Commercial transactional fees straight-line basis over the lease term.
Generally, revenue is recognised on the date of completion or when unconditional contracts have been exchanged.
A lease is classified as onerous where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic Property consultancy benefits expected to be received under it.
Revenue in respect of property consultancy represents commissions and fees recognised on a time basis, fixed fee or Dividends percentage of completion.
Percentage of completion is principally Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the Groups measured by the proportion of actual costs incurred in relation financial statements in the period in which they are approved by to the best estimate of total costs expected for completion of the Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Property and facilities management Revenue represents fees earned for managing properties and providing facilities and is generally recognised in the period the services are provided using a straight-line basis over the term of the contract.
Investment management Revenue represents commissions and fees receivable, net of marketing costs in accordance with the relevant fee agreements.
Savills plc 87 Report and Accounts 2013 Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2013 continued Adoption of standards, amendments and interpretations IFRS 10, Consolidated financial statements including to standards amendments, effective for accounting periods beginning on The following standards and amendments to published or after 1 January 2014.
The standard establishes principles standards have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the presentation and preparation of consolidated financial for the financial year beginning 1 January 2013 and do not statements when an entity controls one or more other have a material impact on the Group: entities.
It defines the principle of control and establishes this as the basis for consolidation.
The standard is not IAS 1 amendment, Financial statement presentation, expected to have a material impact on the Group.
These amendments IFRS 11, Joint arrangements, including amendments, require entities to group items presented in other effective for accounting periods beginning on or after comprehensive income on the basis of whether they are 1 January 2014.
The standard defines two types of joint potentially reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently arrangements: joint operations and joint ventures, based on reclassification adjustments.
The adoption of this amendment the rights and obligations of the parties to the arrangement.
does not impact the Groups profit or net assets.
Proportional consolidation of joint ventures will no longer be IAS 19 amendment, Employee benefits, amends the allowed and must be accounted for using the equity method.
The Group has applied The standard is not expected to have a material impact on the standard retrospectively in accordance with the transition the Group.
These amendments change a IFRS 12, Disclosures of interests in other entities, including number of disclosure requirements for post-employment amendments, effective for accounting periods beginning arrangements and restrict the options previously available on or after 1 January 2014.
The standard sets out the on how to account for defined benefit pension plans.
The disclosure requirements for all forms of interests in other most significant change that has impacted the Group is the entities, including joint arrangements, associates, special amendment that requires the expected returns on pension purpose vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles.
plan assets, previously calculated based on managements IAS 27 amendment, Separate financial statements, estimate of expected returns, to be replaced by a credit on includes the provisions on separate financial statements the pension plan assets calculated at the liability discount that are left after the control provisions of IAS 27 have been rate.
The impact to the Group of the adoption of the revised included in the new IFRS 10.
The amendment is effective IAS 19 results in an additional pre-tax charge to the income for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014 statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 2.2m and is not expected to have a material impact on the Group.
post-tax charge of 1.7m and additional post-tax income IAS 28 amendment, Investments in associates and joint recognised in other comprehensive income of 1.7m.
The ventures, includes requirements for joint ventures, as well change does not impact the Groups net assets.
The 2012 as associates, to be equity accounted following the issue of figures have been restated.
The amendment is effective for accounting periods IFRS 7 amendment, Financial instruments: Disclosures, beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and is not expected regarding asset and liability offsetting.
The amendment to have a material impact on the Group.
includes new disclosures to facilitate comparison between IAS 32 amendment, Financial instruments: Presentation, those entities that prepare IFRS financial statements to those regarding asset and liability offsetting, effective for that prepare financial statements in accordance with US accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
The adoption of this amendment does not impact These amendments clarify some of the requirements for the Groups profit or net assets.
offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, the standard aims to balance sheet and are not expected to have a material improve consistency and reduce complexity by providing a impact on the Group.
precise definition of fair value and a single source of fair value IAS 36 amendment, Impairment of assets, regarding measurement and disclosure requirements for use across recoverable amount disclosures, effective for accounting IFRSs.
The requirements do not extend the use of fair value periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
This accounting but provide guidance on how it should be amendment addresses the disclosure of information applied.
The adoption of this amendment does not impact about the recoverable amount of impaired assets if that the Groups profit or net assets.
amount is based on fair value less costs of disposal.
IAS 1 amendment, Financial statement presentation, IFRS 9, Financial instruments, including amendments.
distinguishes between minimum required comparative This standard is the first step in the process to replace information and voluntary additional comparative information.
IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and The adoption of this amendment does not impact the measurement.
The mandatory effective date has been Groups profit or net assets.
deferred by the IASB and has been left open pending the finalisation of the impairment and classification and Other standards, amendments and interpretations mandatorily measurement requirements.
Early adoption is permitted, effective for the first time for the financial year beginning however, the standard has not yet been endorsed by 1 January 2013 and not discussed above are not relevant to the Group.
The Group has yet to assess IFRS 9s full impact.
The following standards and amendments to published Other standards, amendments and interpretations not yet standards are mandatory for accounting periods beginning on effective and not discussed above are not relevant to the Group or after 1 January 2014, and have not been early adopted: or have not yet been endorsed by the EU.
88 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
