Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2013 1.
General information The term underlying refers to the relevant measure of profit, Savills plc the Company and its subsidiaries together the earnings or taxation being reported excluding the following items: Group is a global real estate services Group.
The Group operates through a network of offices in the UK, Continental amortisation of intangible assets excluding software : Europe, Asia Pacific, US, Africa and the Middle East.
Savills is impairment of goodwill and intangible assets: listed on the London Stock Exchange and employs 26,287 staff impairment of investment in available-for-sale investments, worldwide.
joint ventures or associated undertakings: the difference between IFRS 2 charges related to in year The Company is a public limited company incorporated and profit related performance compensation subject to deferral domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered and the opportunity cash cost of such compensation office is 33 Margaret Street, London W1G 0JD.
refer to Note 8 and Note 14 b for further explanation : restructuring costs that are not considered part of the normal These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 19 March 2014. course of business: significant acquisition costs related to business combinations: 2.
Accounting policies and The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of profits or losses on disposals of subsidiaries, investments these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These in available-for-sale investments, joint ventures and policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, associated undertakings.
unless otherwise stated, and are also applicable to the parent Company.
Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include those of the Basis of preparation Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the These financial statements have been prepared in accordance Groups share of results of its associates and joint ventures.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS IC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with Subsidiaries those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities reporting under IFRS.
over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies generally accompanying a shareholding The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS of more than one half of the voting rights.
The existence and requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and for effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable management to exercise judgement in the process of applying or convertible are considered when assessing whether the the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher Group controls another entity.
The Group also assesses degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions existence of control where it does not have more than 50% and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial of the voting power but is able to govern the financial and statements, are disclosed in Note 5. operating policies by virtue of fide-facto control.
fide-facto control may arise in circumstances where the size of the Groups voting The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of other and under the historical cost convention as modified by the shareholders give the Group the power to govern the financial revaluation of available-for-sale investments and derivative and operating policies.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control Use of non-GAAP measures is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the The Group believes that the consistent presentation of Underlying date that control ceases.
profit before tax, Underlying effective tax rate, Underlying basic earnings per share and Underlying diluted earnings per share The Group applies the acquisition method of accounting to provides additional useful information to shareholders on the account for business combinations.
The consideration underlying trends and comparable performance of the Group transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair values over time.
They are used by Savills for internal performance of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity analysis and incentive compensation arrangements for interests issued by the Group.
These terms are not defined terms under IFRS includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from and may therefore not be comparable with similarly titled profit a contingent consideration arrangement.
Identifiable assets measures reported by other companies.
They are not intended acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree on an  basis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through profit or loss.
82 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
