Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2013 continued 17 d. Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings The principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings of the Group which, in the Directors opinion principally affect the figures shown in the financial statements, are shown below together with details of their main activities.
Except where otherwise noted, they are wholly-owned, have share capital wholly comprised of ordinary shares, are registered in England and Wales, operate in the UK and are consolidated into the Group financial statements.
Holding interests are the same as voting interests.
A full list of the Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings is available from the registered office of Savills plc.
Subsidiary undertakings Holding Main activities Cordea Savills LLP 100% Investment management Savills UK Limited 100% Property agency, consultants and management Prime Purchase Limited 100% Property buying company Cordea Savills Investment Management Limited 100% Asset manager Savills LLC registered in the US 100% Property consultants Savills Commercial Ireland Limited registered in Ireland 100% Property consultants Savills Consultores Inmobiliarios SA registered in Spain 100% Property consultants Savills Immobilien Beratungs GmbH registered in Germany 100% Property consultants Savills SA registered in France 99.97% Property consultants Savills Italy SRL registered in Italy 100% Property consultants Savills Nederland Holding BV registered in the Netherlands 87% Property consultants Savills Sweden AB registered in Sweden 100% Property consultants  Stadsmuren registered in Sweden 100% Project management Loudden Bygg-och Fastighetsservice AB registered in Sweden 70% Facilities management Savills Spolka z Organiczona registered in Poland 100% Property consultants Savills Belux Group SA registered in Belgium 70% Property consultants Savills Hong Kong Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Mixed practice agency, valuation and research Savills Valuation and Professional Services Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Valuation and research Savills Property Management Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Property management Guardian Property Management Limited registered in Hong Kong 100% Property management Savills Singapore Pte Limited registered in Singapore 100% Property management and agency Savills Japan KK registered in Japan 100% Property management and agency Savills Property Services Shanghai Co Limited registered in China 100% Property management Savills Property Services Beijing Co Limited registered in China 100% Property management Savills Korea Asset Management Limited registered in Korea 100% Property management Savills Korea Co. Limited registered in Korea 100% Property agency and consultants Savills Vietnam Limited registered in BVI 98% Property management and agency Savills Thailand Limited registered in Thailand 100% Property agency, consultants and management Savills Taiwan Limited registered in Taiwan 100% Property agency and consultants Savills Myanmar Limited registered in Myanmar 100% Property agency, consultants and management Savills Aust Pty Limited registered in Australia 96.19% Property agency, consultants and management Joint ventures GES Holdings Limited Macau 50% Property management Associated undertakings Hutton Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 48% Property agency Shares interests held indirectly by the Company.
17 e. Acquisitions of subsidiaries During the year, the Group obtained effective control and consolidated some small businesses in China.
These businesses provide real estate and land valuation services and will open up this market in mainland China for the Group.
Goodwill of 1.3m has been determined, and is attributable to industry reputation and synergies the Group expects to gain.
For these businesses, there was no difference between the fair value and carrying value of net assets consolidated, except for intangible assets.
The Group acquires businesses intended for use on a continuing basis.
There were no significant changes to the provisional goodwill that arose in the previous year on acquisitions.
110 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
