Directors Responsibilities Directors responsibility statement Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, on page 42 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Directors Remuneration report and the Financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Group Financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the profit of the Group: and Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company the Statutory Information set out on pages 51 to 53 Financial statements in accordance with International Financial includes a fair review of the development and performance Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European of the business and the position of the Group, together Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true that it faces.
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that In accordance with Section 418, Directors Reports shall include period.
In preparing these Financial statements, the Directors a statement, in the case of each Director in office at the date the are required to: Directors Report is approved, that: select suitable accounting policies and then apply so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit them consistently: information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have reasonable and prudent: taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Union have been followed, subject to any material departures Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
disclosed and explained in the Financial statements: and prepare the Financial statements on the going concern basis After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate continue in business.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time On behalf of the Board the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial statements and the Directors Jeremy Helsby Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 Group Chief Executive and, as regards the Group Financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Chris Lee the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking Group Legal Director & Company Secretary reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
19 March 2014 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
72 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
