| | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements 5.
Critical accounting estimates and Estimated impairment of assets management judgements The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any Critical accounting estimates and assumptions impairment.
All other assets are tested for impairment where Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are there are indicators of impairment.
based on historical experience, current market conditions and other factors including expectations of future events The recoverable amounts of cash-generating units have been that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Changes in method requires the estimate of future cash flows expected to accounting estimates may be necessary if there are changes arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit in circumstances on which the estimate was based, or as a and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate result of new information or more experience.
The estimates and the present value.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly from assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material these estimates.
The estimates used in these financial statements adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are contained in Note 15. within the next financial year are discussed below.
Valuation of intangible assets and useful life Pension benefits The Group has made assumptions in relation to the potential The present value of the defined benefit pension obligations future cash flows to be determined from separable intangible depends on a number of factors that are determined on an assets acquired as part of business combinations.
This actuarial basis using a number of assumptions including the assessment involves assumptions relating to potential future discount rate.
Any changes in these assumptions will impact revenues, appropriate discount rates and the useful life of such the carrying amount of pension obligations.
These assumptions impact the income statement over determines the appropriate discount rate at the end of each the useful life of the intangible asset.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, the Group considers the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds Provisions that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will The Group and its subsidiaries are party to various legal claims.
be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating the Provisions made within these financial statements and further terms of the related pension liability.
Other key assumptions details are contained in Note 25 a.
Additional claims could be for pension obligations are based in part on current market made which might not be covered by existing provisions or by conditions.
Additional information is disclosed in Note 10. insurance as detailed in Note 29.
Income taxes Critical judgements in applying the entitys accounting policies The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
The application of the Groups accounting policies may require Judgement is required in determining the provision for income management to make judgements, apart from those involving taxes.
There are transactions and calculations for which the estimates, that can affect the amounts recognised in the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
Where the final tax consolidated financial statements.
Such judgements include: outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income Award of options and deferred shares to employees tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such The Group applies judgement in deciding the proportion of the determination is made.
available bonus pool to be awarded to employees under its longterm share-based incentive scheme.
The Groups current policy Deferred taxes is to deduct from the bonus pool an amount equal to the market The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether value of the share price on the date of award.
Under IFRS, the it is probable that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be value of award is spread over the vesting period and charged to available in the future, against which the reversal of temporary the income statement.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the deferred tax asset has been recognised, especially with regard to the extent that future taxable profits will be available against which losses can be utilised.
Additional information is disclosed in Note 18.
Fair value of options granted to employees The Group uses the Binomial Model in determining the fair value of options granted to employees under the Groups various schemes as detailed in the Remuneration report.
Information on such assumptions is contained in Note 27.
The alteration of these assumptions may impact charges to the income statement over the vesting period of the award.
Savills plc 93 Report and Accounts 2013
