Notes to the financial statements Year ended 31 December 2013 continued Professional indemnity claims These arise from various legal actions, proceedings and other claims that are pending against the Group and are based on reasonable estimates, taking into account the opinions of legal counsel.
The nature of the amounts provided in respect of legal actions, proceedings and other claims is such that the extent and timing of cash flows can be difficult to estimate and the ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided.
The non-current portion of these provisions is expected to be utilised within the next two to five years.
Included are provisions for claims relating to subsidiaries prior to their disposal.
Dilapidation provisions The Group is required to perform dilapidation repairs and in certain instances restore properties to agreed specifications prior to the properties being vacated at the end of their lease term.
These amounts are based on estimates of repair and restoration costs at a future date and therefore a degree of uncertainty exists over the future outflows given that these are subject to repair and restoration cost price fluctuations and the extent of repairs to be completed.
The majority of the non-current portion of these provisions is expected to be utilised within the next two to six years.
Onerous leases A provision is recognised where the costs of meeting the obligations under a lease contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received and is measured as the net least cost of exiting the contract, being the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from the failure to fulfil it.
The majority of the non-current portion of these provisions is expected to be utilised within the next two to four years.
Restructuring provision This provision comprises termination payments to employees affected by restructuring and lease termination penalties.
Employee benefit obligations In addition to the defined benefit obligation pension scheme disclosed in Note 10, the following are included in employee benefit obligations: Total Group m At 1 January 2013 13.6 Provided during the year 7.1 Utilised during the year 5.3 Exchange movements 1.2 At 31 December 2013 14.2 The above provisions relate to holiday pay and long service leave in UK, Asia Pacific and Europe.
Profit shares are included within accruals Note 21.
The Company had no employee benefit obligations at 31 December 2013 or 31 December 2012.
The above employee benefit obligations have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: Group 2013 2012 m m Current 6.3 5.9 Non-current 7.9 7.7 14.2 13.6 118 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
