| | | | Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key dates for 2014 Date Annual General Meeting 12 May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results August Website Professional advisers and service providers Visit our investor relations website www.
com for full up Solicitors to date investor relations information, including the latest share CMS Cameron McKenna LLP price, recent annual and half year reports, results presentations Mitre House and financial news.
160 Aldersgate Street London Shareholder enquiries EC1A 4DD For shareholder enquiries please contact our Registrars, Equiniti.
For general enquiries please call our Shareholder Registrars Services helpline on: 0871 384 2018 overseas holders need Equiniti to ring 44 0 121 415 7047.
Calls to Equinitis 0871 numbers Aspect House are charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Other Spencer Road network service providers costs may vary.
Lines are open Lancing from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding bank West Sussex holidays.
For further administrative queries in respect of BN99 6DA your shareholding please access our Registrars website at www.
co. uk Auditor  LLP Electronic communications 1 Embankment Place If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications London WC2N 6RH electronically in future, including your annual and half-yearly reports and notices of meetings, please visit our Registrars Joint Stockbrokers website, www.
co. uk and follow the link to Sign up UBS Investment Bank for paper-free communications.
1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2M 2PP Half Year Report Like many other listed public companies, we no longer circulate Numis Securities Ltd printed Half Year reports to shareholders.
Rather, Half Year The London Stock results statements are published on the Companys website.
Exchange Building We believe that this is of benefit to those shareholders who do 10 Paternoster Square not wish to be burdened with such paper documents, and to London EC4M 7LT the Company, as it is consistent with our target of saving printing and distribution costs.
Principal Bankers Barclays Bank PLC 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP Savills plc 127 Report and Accounts 2013 Shareholder information continued Warning about unsolicited investment contacts Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements Share fraud includes scams where investors are contacted Certain statements included in this Annual Report are forwardunexpectedly and offered shares that often turn out to be looking and are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and worthless or non-existent or offered an inflated price for uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating from those expressed or implied because they relate to future in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the Companys expectations.
Shareholders who buy or sell their shares in this way usually Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of lose their money.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has relevant terminology including the words: believes, estimates, found most share fraud victims are experienced investors who anticipates, expects, intends, forecasts, plans, goal, lose an average of 20,000, with around 200m lost in the UK target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each year.
each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts.
Protect yourself if you are offered discounted shares, They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual unsolicited investment advice, an inflated price for your Report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs shares or free company or research reports, you should take or current expectations and those of our Officers, Directors and precautionary measures before handing over your money.
employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
strategies and the businesses we operate.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk register to ensure that they are authorised.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially 3.
Contact the firm using the details on the Financial Services from those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, Register.
If there are no details or you are told they are out of but are not limited to: date, contact FCA Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or fill out a share fraud reporting form which can be found on the Global economic business conditions: FCA website.
Monetary and interest rate policies: 4.
Search the list of unauthorised firms and individuals Foreign currency exchange rates: to avoid at www.
uk scams and remember: if it Equity and property prices: sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
The impact of competition, inflation: Changes to regulations, taxes: If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you Changes to consumer saving and spending habits: and should inform the FCA by calling its Helpline 0800 111 6768 Our success in managing the above factors.
or by calling Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and other investments, you will not have access to the Financial expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
Ombudsman Service or the Financial Services Compensation Accordingly, no assurance can be given that any particular Scheme if things go wrong.
expectation will be met and readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements which speak only at their respective dates.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
128 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 Design and production: Carnegie Orr 44 0 20 7610 6140 www.
co. uk The paper used in this Report is derived from sustainable sources Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013 Savills plc 33 Margaret Street London W1G 0JD T: 44 0 20 7499 8644 F: 44 0 20 7495 3773 Registered in England No.
