Additional Information Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy third Annual General Meeting AGM of St. Modwen Properties PlC the Company will be held at the Marketing Suite, innovation Centre, 1 devon Way, longbridge technology Park, birmingham b31 2tS on Friday, th 28March 2014 at 12.00 noon to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions.
Resolutions 1 to 17 inclusive will beproposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 18 to 20 inclusive will be proposed as special resolutions.
oRdiNARy buSiNESS th 1. that the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 November 2013 be received.
2. that the directors Remuneration Report, excluding the part containing the directors remuneration policy, set out on pages 76 to th 97 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 November 2013 be approved.
3. that the directors remuneration policy, the full text of which is set out on pages 78 to 87 of the Annual Report and Financial th st Statements for the financial year ended 30 November 2013 and which will take effect from 1 december 2014, be approved.
th th 4. that a final dividend for the financial year ended 30 November 2013 of 2.67p per ordinary share payable on 4 April 2014 to th those shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 7 March 2014 be declared.
5. that Richard Mully be elected as a director.
6. that Steve burke be re-elected as a director.
7. that Kay Chaldecott be re-elected as a director.
8. that Simon Clarke be re-elected as a director.
9. that Michael dunn be re-elected as a director.
10. that lesley James be re-elected as a director.
11. that bill oliver be re-elected as a director.
12. that John Salmon be re-elected as a director.
13. that bill Shannon be re-elected as a director.
14. that deloitte llP be re-appointed as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
15. that the directors be authorised to determine the remuneration of the Companys auditor.
SPECiAl buSiNESS 16. that the amendments to the rules of the St. Modwen Properties PlC 2004 Saving Related Share option Scheme including the extension of the scheme for a period of 10 years from the date of the AGM, as summarised and explained in Part i of the Appendix to this notice of AGM, be approved and the directors be authorised to do all things necessary to give effect to the amendments.
17. that, in substitution for all existing authorities and without prejudice to previous allotments or offers or agreement to allot made pursuant to such authorities, the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to: a allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,345,899 the Section 551 amount : and b allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 up to a further aggregate nominal amount of 7,345,899 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue to: i ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any country or territory, such authorities to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held after the date of the passing of this resolution th or 27 June 2015, whichever is the earlier, but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the expiry of such authority which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares to be granted after such expiry and the directors may allot shares or grant such rights under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 155 Additional Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued SPECiAl buSiNESS CoNtiNuEd Special resolution 18. that, in substitution for all existing powers and subject to the passing of resolution 17, the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 for cash pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 17 and or where the allotment constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006, in each case free of the restriction in section 561 of the Companies Act 2006, such power to be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph a of resolution 17 and or an allotment which constitutes an allotment of equity securities by virtue of section 560 3 of the Companies Act 2006 in each case otherwise than in the circumstances set out in paragraph b of this resolution up to a nominal amount of 1,101,884 the Section 561 amount : and b the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph b of resolution 17, such power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary, subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any country or territory, such power to expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held after the date of the passing of this resolution or th 27 June 2015, whichever is the earlier, but so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the power expires which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such power expires and the directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
Special resolution 19. that the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases as defined in section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of ordinary shares of 10p each in its capital ordinary Shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may from time to time determine provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 22,037,698: b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary Share is 10p exclusive of expenses : c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary Share is the highest of in each case exclusive of expenses : i an amount equal to 105% of the average market value of an ordinary Share for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for any number of ordinary Shares on the london Stock Exchange: and d this authority shall, unless previously renewed, expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held after the th date of the passing of this resolution or 27 June 2015, whichever is the earlier, except in relation to the purchase of any ordinary Shares the contract for which was concluded before the date of expiry of the authority and which would or might be completed wholly or partly after that date.
Special resolution 20. that a general meeting other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
RECoMMENdAtioN the board confirms that, in its opinion, all of the resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
the directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of the above resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
by order of the board tanya Stote Company Secretary th 20 February 2014 St. Modwen Properties PlC Registered number: 349201 Registered office: Sir Stanley Clarke house, 7 Ridgeway, quinton business Park, birmingham b32 1AF 156 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 ExPlANAtoRy NotES to PRoPoSEd RESolutioNS Resolution 1 Annual Report and Financial Statements Resolution 1 is an ordinary resolution to receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial year ended th 30November 2013.
Copies will be available at the AGM.
Resolutions 2 and 3 directors Remuneration Report there are new requirements this year in relation to the content and approval of the directors Remuneration Report following changes made to the Companies Act 2006. in accordance with the new Companies Act 2006 provisions, the directors Remuneration Report contains: a statement by lesley James, Chair of the Remuneration Committee pages 76 77: st the remuneration policy report pages 78 87 which provides details of the remuneration policy that will apply from 1 december 2014: and the annual report on remuneration pages 87 97 which describes how the remuneration policy was implemented for the year th th ended 30 November 2013 and how the policy will apply for the year ending 30 November 2014.
Resolution 2 is an ordinary resolution to approve the directors Remuneration Report, other than the part containing the directors remuneration policy.
Resolution 2 is an advisory resolution and does not affect the future remuneration paid to any director.
Resolution 3 is an ordinary resolution to approve the directors remuneration policy which is set out in the directors Remuneration Report.
once the directors remuneration policy as approved by shareholders comes into effect, all payments by the Company to the directors and any former directors must be made in accordance with the policy unless a payment has been separately approved st by a shareholder resolution.
if approved, the directors remuneration policy will take effect from 1 december 2014.
Payments will continue to be made to directors and former directors in line with existing arrangements until that date.
Resolution 4 declaration of final dividend Resolution 4 is an ordinary resolution by which shareholders are asked to declare a final dividend.
the directors recommend a final th th dividend for the financial year ended 30 November 2013 of 2.67p per ordinary share.
if approved, this will be paid on 4 April 2014 th to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 7 March 2014.
Resolutions 5 to 13 Election and re-election of directors Resolutions 5 to 13 are ordinary resolutions which deal with the election and re-election of the directors.
st Following his appointment to the board on 1 September 2013 and in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Richard Mully will retire and offer himself for election at the 2014 AGM.
All other directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the 2012 uK Corporate Governance Code.
biographical details of all directors are set out on pages 56 and 57. the performance of the board as a whole, as well as the contribution made by individual directors, has been reviewed during the course of the year.
After considering this evaluation, the Chairman has confirmed that the performance of every executive and non-executive director continues to be effective, that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles, and that their respective skills complement one another to enhance the overall operation of the board.
Resolutions 14 and 15 Auditor appointment and remuneration At last years AGM shareholders re-appointed deloitte llP as auditor of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
deloitte has expressed a willingness to continue in office and the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process and recommends their re-appointment.
therefore resolutions 14 and 15 are ordinary resolutions to re-appoint deloitte llP as auditor until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration.
Resolution 16 Proposed extension of SAyE option scheme and amendments the St. Modwen Properties PlC 2004 Saving Related Share option Scheme the SAyE Scheme was adopted by the Company th in general meeting on 6 August 2004. it is a tax-advantaged option scheme under which employees are offered options over the Companys shares, linked to a savings account funded by deductions from the employees salary.
the savings are used to pay the exercise price on exercise of the option, but can be withdrawn by the employee if the option is not exercised.
options must be offered to all employees of the Group who have completed a qualifying period of employment, and the board views the SAyE Scheme as a useful way to motivate the wider workforce and align their interests with those of shareholders.
th the SAyE Scheme is due to terminate on 6 August 2014. the board would like to retain the ability to grant tax-advantaged save-as-you-earn options, and it has been decided that it would be administratively simpler to extend the existing scheme for a further 10 years than to adopt a new scheme.
Accordingly, the board is seeking shareholder approval to an amendment to the SAyE Scheme to extend it for a further 10 years.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 157 Additional Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued ExPlANAtoRy NotES to PRoPoSEd RESolutioNS CoNtiNuEd the opportunity is also being taken to update the rules in certain respects and make certain other changes.
the Finance Act 2013 made certain simplifications and improvements to the legislative rules applicable to option schemes such as the SAyE th Scheme, and some of these provisions had the effect of automatically amending the SAyE Scheme as of 17 July 2013. the text of the rules is being updated to reflect these automatic amendments.
the text is also being updated to reflect certain amendments to statutory references arising from the updating of tax and company law legislation: these changes are not intended to alter the meaning of the rules.
the opportunity is also being taken to rename the SAyE scheme the St. Modwen Properties PlC Saving Related Share option Scheme.
the terms of the SAyE Scheme provide that no alteration to the rules to the advantage of option holders except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the scheme and amendments to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for option holders or any participating company shall be made without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Part i of the Appendix to this notice of AGM summarises the proposed amendments in relation to which shareholder approval is being sought at the AGM and explains their effect.
in addition, as it is proposed that the SAyE Scheme be renewed for a further 10 years, a description of the principal terms of the SAyE Scheme as amended by the proposed amendments is set out in Part ii of the Appendix to this notice of AGM.
A copy of the rules of the SAyE Scheme, showing the proposed amendments including amendments in relation to which shareholder approval is not being sought, will be available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours from the date of this notice of AGM until the close of the AGM, and at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes before the start of the meeting until the end of the meeting.
Resolution 17 Authority to allot shares the authority conferred on the directors at last years AGM to allot shares in the Company expires at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Resolution 17 is an ordinary resolution to renew this authority.
the Association of british insurers Abi guidelines on directors authority to allot shares state that Abi members will permit, and treat as routine, resolutions seeking authority to allot new shares representing up to one-third of a companys issued share capital.
in addition, they will treat as routine a request for authority to allot shares representing an additional one-third of a companys issued share capital provided that it is only used to allot shares pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
Paragraph a of resolution 17 will, if passed, authorise the directors to allot shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of th 7,345,899 which represents one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 10 February 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM.
Paragraph b of resolution 17 proposes that, in accordance with Abi guidance, an additional authority be conferred on the directors to allot shares in connection with a rights issue up to a further maximum aggregate nominal amount of 7,345,899. the authorities sought in paragraphs a and b of resolution 17 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Companys Articles of Association or otherwise, and are without prejudice to previous allotments or agreements or offers to allot made under such existing authorities.
the authorities will each expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the th Company and 27 June 2015. the directors have no present intention of exercising these authorities other than to fulfil the Companys obligations under its share incentive schemes approved previously by shareholders, but believe that it is in the best interests of the Company to have the authorities available to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place without the need for a general meeting should they determine that it is appropriate to do so.
Resolution 18 disapplication of pre-emption rights if the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities company law requires that these shares are offered first to shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
Resolution 18 is a special resolution which seeks to renew the authority conferred on the directors at last years AGM to issue equity securities of the Company for cash without application of the pre-emption rights as provided by section 561 of the Companies Act 2006.
Paragraph a of resolution 18 will, if passed, authorise the directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given in paragraph a of resolution 17 for cash i in connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue or ii otherwise up to a maximum aggregate th nominal value of 1,101,884, equivalent to 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 10 February 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM in each case without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
in light of the Abi guidance described in the explanation of resolution 17 above, paragraph b of resolution 18 will, if passed, authorise the directors to allot new shares pursuant to the authority given by paragraph b of resolution 17 for cash in connection with a rights issue without the shares first being offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
the authorities sought in paragraphs a and b of resolution 18 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Companys Articles of Association or otherwise, and are without prejudice to previous allotments or agreements or offers to allot made under such existing authorities.
the authorities will each expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the th Company and 27 June 2015.
158 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 in accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles dated July 2008, the directors confirm their intention not to issue more than 7.5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital for cash other than to existing shareholders in any rolling three-year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
Resolution 19 Authority to purchase shares Resolution 19 is a special resolution to renew the authority granted to the directors at last years AGM to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares through the market as permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and within institutional shareholder guidelines.
No shares were purchased during the year and the Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
if passed, the resolution gives authority for the Company to purchase up to 22,037,698 of its ordinary shares, which represents th 10%of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 10 February 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM.
the resolution specifies the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid for any ordinary shares purchased under this authority.
the authority will expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company and th 27 June 2015. the directors have no present intention for the Company to exercise the authority granted by this resolution to purchase its own shares.
they would do so only after taking account of the overall financial position of the Company and in circumstances where to do so would be regarded by the board as being in the best interests of shareholders generally and result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share.
the Company may either cancel any shares it purchases under this authority or transfer them into treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury or cancel them.
th As at 10 February 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM, the Company had options outstanding over 10,361,137 ordinary shares, representing 4.70% of the issued share capital on that date.
if the Company was to th purchase the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to this resolution, the options outstanding at 10 February 2014 would represent 5.81% of the issued share capital.
Resolution 20 Notice period of general meetings Resolution 20 is a special resolution to renew an authority granted at last years AGM to allow the Company to hold general meetings other than AGMs on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Changes made to the Companies Act 2006 by the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 increased the notice period required for general meetings of the Company to 21 clear days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
this approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
the shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 159 Additional Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued ShAREholdER NotES 1.
Entitlement to attend and vote to be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, shareholders th must be entered on the Companys register of members at 6.00pm on Wednesday, 26 March 2014 or, in the event of any adjournment, at 6.00pm on the date which is two days before the date of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
it is proposed that all votes on the resolutions at the AGM will be taken by way of a poll.
Appointment of proxies general A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened by the notice of AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his or her behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company but must attend the meeting in person.
For the appointment to be effective, a proxy form or electronic appointment of proxy, see note 4 below must be received by the th Companys registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting, i. e. not later than 12.00 noon on Wednesday, 26 March 2014. the appointment of a proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in person if he or she is entitled to do so and so wishes.
Appointment of proxies proxy form A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions has been sent to shareholders.
if you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms to appoint more than one proxy, please contact the Companys registrars, Equiniti, on 0871 384 2198 calls to this number will be charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
overseas callers should dial 44 0 121 415 7047. lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Alternatively photocopy the proxy form which has been sent to you.
All forms must be signed and should be returned together in the same envelope.
the notes to the proxy form explain how to direct your proxy to vote on each resolution or withhold their vote.
Please note that the vote withheld option on the proxy form is provided to enable you to abstain on any particular resolution: it is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
if you sign the proxy form and return it without any specific directions your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
if you wish to appoint a proxy other than the Chairman of the meeting, please insert the name of your chosen proxy holder in the space provided on the proxy form.
if the proxy is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised to act as your proxy.
if left blank your proxy will be deemed to be authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if the proxy form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
in the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior joint holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, in respect of the holding will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority is determined by the order in which the names appear in the Companys register of members in respect of the joint holding.
in the case of a corporate shareholder, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by a duly authorised officer or attorney.
in the case of an individual, the proxy form must be signed by the appointing shareholder.
Any alterations made to the proxy form should be initialled.
Appointment of proxies electronically Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through Equinitis website at www.
co. uk using their personal Voting id, task id and Shareholder Reference Number which are printed on the proxy form.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
Full details and instructions on these electronic proxy facilities are given on the respective websites.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to th any address other than those provided or if received after 12.00 noon on Wednesday, 26 March 2014.
Appointment of proxies through CRESt CRESt members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for the AGM, and any adjournment s thereof, through the CRESt electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CRESt Manual.
CRESt Personal Members or other CRESt sponsored members, and those CRESt members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CRESt sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
160 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 in order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CRESt service to be valid, the appropriate CRESt message a CRESt Proxy instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear uK & ireland limiteds Eui specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CRESt Manual available at www.
the message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by Equiniti id RA19 by the latest time for receipt of proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the CRESt Applications host from which Equiniti is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CRESt in the manner prescribed by CRESt.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CRESt should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CRESt members and, where applicable, their CRESt sponsors or voting service providers should note that Eui does not make available special procedures in CRESt for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CRESt Proxy instructions.
it is the responsibility of the CRESt member concerned to take or, if the CRESt member is a CRESt Personal Member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CRESt sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CRESt system by any particular time.
in this connection, CRESt members and, where applicable, their CRESt sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CRESt Manual concerning practical limitations of the CRESt system and timings.
the Company may treat as invalid a CRESt Proxy instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Changing and revoking proxy instructions to change your proxy instruction simply submit a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above.
the deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see note 2 above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share and for the same meeting, those received last by Equiniti will take precedence.
in order to revoke a proxy instruction, a shareholder will need to inform the Company by sending a signed hard copy notice clearly stating his her intention to revoke a proxy appointment to Equiniti limited, Aspect house, Spencer Road, lancing bN99 6dA.
in the case of a corporate shareholder, the revocation notice must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by a duly authorised officer or attorney.
Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the revocation notice is signed or a duly certified copy of such power of attorney must be included with the revocation notice.
the revocation must be received no later than th 12.00 noon on Wednesday, 26 March 2014. if a shareholder attempts to revoke his or her proxy appointment but the revocation is received after the time specified the original proxy appointment will remain valid.
termination of proxy appointments made through CRESt must be made in accordance with the procedures described in the CRESt Manual.
Corporate representatives A corporate shareholder can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the AGM.
Please contact Equiniti for further guidance.
Nominated persons Any person to whom this notice is sent who is not a shareholder but is a person nominated by a shareholder under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement with the shareholder who nominated him her, have a right to be appointed, or have someone else appointed, as a proxy for the AGM.
if a Nominated Person has no such right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give voting instructions to the shareholder.
the statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies set out in notes 2 to 7 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
the rights described in those notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
if you are a Nominated Person it is important to remember that your main contact in terms of your investment remains the registered shareholder or the custodian or broker who administers the investment on your behalf.
Shareholder participation Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask questions relating to the business of the meeting and the Company has an obligation to answer such questions unless i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Availability of information on website A copy of this notice of AGM, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found on the Companys website at www.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 161 Additional Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued ShAREholdER NotES CoNtiNuEd 11.
Website publication of audit concerns Shareholders satisfying the threshold requirements in section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its website setting out any matter that such shareholder proposes to raise at the meeting relating to a the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM or b any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last AGM.
the Company cannot require the shareholders requesting the publication to pay its expenses in complying with the request.
Any statement placed on the website must also be sent to the Companys auditor no later than the time the statement is made available on the website.
the business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required to publish on its website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006.
12. total voting rights th As at 10 February 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM, the Companys issued share th capital consisted of 220,376,988 shares carrying one vote each.
therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 10 February 2014 was 220,376,988.
13. documents available for inspection the following documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours and will be at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes before the start of the meeting until the end of the meeting: i copies of the directors service contracts with the Company: ii copies of the non-executive directors letters of appointment: iii a copy of the Companys Articles of Association: and iv a copy of the rules of the SAyE Scheme showing the proposed amendments including amendments in relation to which shareholder approval is not being sought.
Communication with the Company you may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of AGM or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
162 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 APPENdix AMENdMENtS to thE St. ModWEN PRoPERtiES PlC 2004 SAViNG RElAtEd ShARE oPtioN SChEME Part i of this Appendix to the notice of AGM summarises and explains the effect of the proposed amendments to the St. Modwen Properties PlC 2004 Saving Related Share option Scheme the SAyE Scheme in relation to which shareholder approval is sought at the AGM.
Part ii of this Appendix contains a description of the principal terms of the SAyE Scheme, amended as proposed.
Part i Summary and explanation of the effect of amendments to the SAyE Scheme in relation to which shareholder approval is sought at the AGM 1.
Extension of term of SAYE Scheme th the SAyE Scheme as currently drafted is due to terminate on 6 August 2014, without prejudice to existing options.
No new options may be granted under it after that date.
it is proposed that the SAyE Scheme be extended so that it will terminate on the th tenth anniversary of the date of the AGM, i. e. 28 March 2024, and options may be granted until that date.
the termination would, again, be without prejudice to options which have already been granted by that date.
For a description of the principal terms of the SAyE Scheme, amended as proposed, see Part ii of this Appendix.
Allowing three year options to be granted the legislation governing option schemes such as the SAyE Scheme allows either three year or five year options to be granted, linked to savings contracts with either 36 or 60 monthly savings contributions respectively.
the SAyE Scheme is currently drafted on the basis that only five year options will be granted.
it is proposed that the SAyE Scheme be amended to facilitate invitations to apply for the grant of either or both three and five year options, at the discretion of the board.
this will give added flexibility and is expected that it may increase participation in the SAyE Scheme by employees.
Allowing exercise prices at a discount of up to 20% to market value the legislation governing option schemes such as the SAyE Scheme allows options to be granted with an exercise price which is no less than 80% of the market value of the shares at the time of grant or such earlier time as may be agreed with hMRC.
the SAyE Scheme as currently drafted allows an exercise price which is no less than 90% of the market value of the shares at the date of the invitation.
it is proposed that this is amended to 80%, to give more flexibility and to allow the SAyE Scheme to be made more attractive to participants.
if invitations are issued with an exercise price of 80% of market value, rather than 90% of market value, this would enable participants to acquire more shares for the same savings, and accordingly may increase the overall number of shares used in the SAyE Scheme.
Amendments to SAYE Scheme limits the SAyE Scheme in existing Rule 5.1 currently limits the number of new shares which may be issued or made issuable pursuant to the grant of options under the scheme in any 10 year period to 12,077,395, or, if lower, the number of shares which represents 10% of the issued share capital of the Company from time to time.
it is proposed that this limit be removed.
Such a limit is not required by guidelines issued by the Association of british insurers there is a 10% limit in 10 years for all share schemes established by the Company, in existing Rule 5.2, and this will remain.
the SAyE Scheme also in existing Rule 5.3 currently limits the number of new shares which may be issued or made issuable pursuant to the grant of options under the scheme in any five year period, when combined with shares issued or made issuable pursuant to grants under other share schemes established by the Company, to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of grant.
Such a limit used to be required by the guidelines issued by the Association of british insurers, but no longer is.
it is therefore proposed that this limit be removed, for consistency with other share schemes operated by the Company.
Grant periods the SAyE Scheme provides that options under the scheme may normally only be granted during a Grant Period.
A Grant Period is defined as the period of 42 days following the publication of the annual or half yearly results of the Company, or the date on which the SAyE Scheme was originally approved by hMRC.
it is proposed that the period of 42 days following the date of the AGM at which the proposed amendments are approved be added as a Grant Period.
in addition, it is proposed that the wording of the existing rules be amended to clarify that it is the issue of invitations, rather than the grant of options, under the SAyE Scheme that may normally only be made during a Grant Period.
this appears to have been the intention of the original wording.
Part ii description of the principal terms of the SAyE Scheme, amended as proposed 1.
Invitations during the period of 42 days following the publication of the Companys annual and interim results, and after the date of the AGM at which the proposed amendments are approved, the board may, if it so decides, invite eligible employees to apply for the grant of options to them.
in exceptional circumstances invitations may be issued outside such periods.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 163 Additional Information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued APPENdix AMENdMENtS to thE St. ModWEN PRoPERtiES PlC 2004 SAViNG RElAtEd ShARE oPtioN SChEME CoNtiNuEd 2.
Eligibility People who have been employees of the Group for a qualifying period will be eligible to participate in the SAyE Scheme.
in addition, the board has discretion to allow participation by employees who do not meet all the eligibility requirements.
the invitations offered to different people may only vary according to the lengths of service or salary of the individual concerned, or other similar factors.
Acceptance and individual limits to accept an invitation, the applicant will be required to sign and return to the Company the savings contract proposal form and to state his or her proposed monthly saving contribution.
this will be subject to the statutory maximum which will be 500 per month th from 6 April 2014 or such lower amount as may be set by the board.
the applicant must sign an authority to allow the chosen amount of contribution to be deducted from his or her salary.
Grant of options and option exercise price the applicant will be granted an option to acquire with the amount of money that will be due to the employee at the end of the savings contract term, the largest whole number of shares that could be acquired at the date of grant of the option for a price per share that is not less than 80% of the market value of an equivalent share on the relevant invitation date.
Market value on any day means, while shares are listed on the london Stock Exchange, the average of the middle market quotations of a share as derived from the daily official list of the london Stock Exchange for the three immediately preceding dealing days.
Restrictions on the number of new shares in respect of which options may be granted the number of shares issued or made issuable by the Company pursuant to options granted under the SAyE Scheme and any other share option schemes operated by the Company, excluding lapsed options, during the 10 year period ending on any date of grant under the SAyE Scheme shall not, when added to any shares issued or made issuable in the same period under any other share scheme operated by the Company, exceed the number of shares that represents 10% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue on the relevant date of grant.
Exercise and lapse of options options may normally only be exercised during the six month period immediately following the termination of the savings contract.
Special provisions govern the exercise and lapse of options in particular circumstances, such as where the option holder dies, leaves the Company, or if the Company is taken over or goes into liquidation.
the rules of the SAyE Scheme state that former employees shall not be entitled by way of compensation for loss of office, or otherwise, to compensation for loss of any actual or prospective right or benefit accrued or anticipated under the SAyE Scheme.
Issue of shares Any shares issued pursuant to the SAyE Scheme will rank pari passu in all respects with other ordinary shares already in issue, save that they will not rank for any dividend or other distribution of the Company announced or paid by reference to a record date that is prior to the date of exercise of the relevant option.
Variation of share capital in the event of certain adjustments to the share capital of the Company, for example as a result of a rights issue or subdivision of share capital, adjustments necessary to maintain the value of the option will be made to the number of shares subject to the option and or the option exercise price and or the maximum number and or the nominal value of shares available for issue under the SAyE Scheme.
these adjustments will be subject to confirmation from the Companys auditors that they are fair and reasonable, and to hMRC approval where required.
Alterations the SAyE Scheme provides that the scheme cannot be amended to the advantage of participants without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the scheme and amendments to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants in the scheme or for the Company or members of the Group.
Administration the SAyE Scheme will be administered by the board who will resolve any disputes relating to the scheme or uncertainty as to the meaning of the scheme rules.
the board may delegate their powers in relation to the SAyE Scheme to a committee.
Termination the SAyE Scheme shall terminate on the tenth anniversary of the date of the AGM at which the proposed amendments are approved, or earlier if the board so resolves.
termination of the SAyE Scheme shall be without prejudice to the subsisting rights of option holders.
No options shall be granted under the SAyE Scheme after the date of termination.
164 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
