231283 UKCPT pp54-pp55 21 03 2014 10:34 Page 54 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventh Annual General Meeting of amended, the Law to make market acquisitions within the UK Commercial Property Trust Limited will be convened at Trafalgar meaning of section 316 I of the law of its own ordinary shares Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, of 25p each shares either for retention as treasury shares GY1 3QL on 17 June 2014 at 10.00 a. m. for the following purposes.
for future resale of transfer or cancellation, provided that: i the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be Ordinary Resolutions acquired shall be equal to 14.99 per cent of the Companys To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as issued share capital on the date on which this resolution Ordinary Resolutions: is passed: 1.
To approve and adopt the Report of the Directors and auditor and the financial statements for the year ended ii the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid 31 December 2013. for a Share is 25p, being the nominal value per share: 2.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report iii the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be other than the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year to paid for a Share shall not be more than the higher of i an 31 December 2013. amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle 3.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Policy.
market quotations for a Share taken from the London Stock 4.
To re-elect Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor to the Company until Exchanges Daily Official List for the five business days the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
immediately preceding the day on which the Share is purchased and ii the higher of the last independent trade 5.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors and the highest current independent bid on the London remuneration.
To elect Mrs Platts as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr Hill as a Director of the Company.
iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 8.
To re-elect Mr McCullagh as a Director of the Company.
2015 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the 9.
To re-elect Mr Robertson as a Director of the Company.
passing of this resolution, unless such authority is renewed 10.
To re-elect Mr Wilson as a Director of the Company.
prior to such time: and Special Resolutions v the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such Special Resolutions: authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of 11.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Shares pursuant to any such contract.
generally empowered, to allot ordinary shares in the Company Notes: or grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, ordinary shares in the Company equity securities, including 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert securities entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, into ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a for cash as if any pre-emption rights in relation to the issue of member of the Company.
shares as set out in the listing rules made by the Financial 2.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is Services Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
Markets Act 2000 as amended did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
The form of proxy should be completed and sent, together with the power of a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the notarially certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach expiry of 15 months from the passing of this resolution, Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited, The Pavilions, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company may, before Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, not later than 10.00 a. m. on such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or 13 June 2014. might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of 4.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby member from attending in person at the Meeting.
If you have had not expired: and appointed a proxy and attend the meeting in person your proxy appointment will remain valid and you may not vote at the b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an meeting unless you have provided a hard copy notice to revoke aggregate nominal value 30,969,850 being approximately the proxy to Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, 10 per cent of the nominal value of the issued share capital of Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY no less than 48 hours excluding the Company including treasury shares, as at 19 March 2014. any part of a day that is not a working day prior to the 12.
That the Company, be authorised in accordance with commencement of the meeting as set out above.
section 315 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as 54 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 231283 UKCPT pp54-pp55 21 03 2014 13:39 Page 55 5.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll a member must first have his or her name entered on the register of members at the close of business on the day which is two days before the date of the meeting.
Changes to entries in the register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to attend and vote at such Meeting.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection for fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting itself.
Copies of the Articles of Association of the Company will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted until the close of the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the Company.
As at 18 March 2014, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 1,238,794,000 ordinary shares in issue with a total of 1,197,348,858 voting rights.
Any person holding 3 per cent of the total voting rights in the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
By order of the Board Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited Secretary Trafalgar Court Les Banques St Peter Port Guernsey GY1 3QL Date: 19 March 2014 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 55
