Strategic report Governance Financial statements Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 105 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The directors are responsible for The directors are responsible for In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12, each of preparing the Report and Accounts and ensuring that the company keeps the directors confirms that, to the best the financial statements in accordance accounting records which show and oftheir knowledge: with applicable law and regulations.
explain the companys and the groups i T he financial statements of the transactions, disclose with reasonable group, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the directors accuracy, at any time, the financial to prepare financial statements for International Financial Reporting position of the group and the company Standards as adopted by the EU, each financial year.
Under that law which enable them to ensure that the thedirectors have prepared the group and the financial statements of the financial statements and the report company, prepared in accordance with financial statements in accordance on directors remuneration comply with International Financial Reporting United Kingdom Generally Accepted with the Companies Act 2006 and, as Accounting Practice, give a true Standards IFRSs as adopted by regards the group financial statements, the European Union, and the parent and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the financial position and profit or loss company financial statements in parent company financial statements accordance with applicable law and ofthe company and the undertakings comply with the Companies Act included in the consolidation taken United Kingdom Accounting Standards 2006.
The directors have a general United Kingdom Generally Accepted asa whole: and responsibility for taking such steps as are Accounting Practice.
The group and reasonably open to them to safeguard ii T he management report, which parent company financial statements the assets of the group and company is incorporated into the directors are required by law to give a true and and to prevent and detect fraud and report, includes a fair review of the fair view of the state of affairs of the other irregularities.
development and performance of company and the group and of the profit the business and the position of or loss of the company and group for This statement, which should be read the company and the undertakings that period.
inconjunction with the auditors report, included in the consolidation taken as is made with a view to distinguishing for The financial statements on pages 108 a whole, together with a description members the respective responsibilities to 179 have been prepared on a going of the principal risks and uncertainties of the directors and the auditors in concern basis, suitable accounting they face.
relation to the financial statements.
policies have been used and applied In accordance with the provisions of the consistently, reasonable and prudent A copy of the Annual Report and the UK Corporate Governance Code, the judgements and estimates have been financial statements of the company directors confirm that, to the best of their made and applicable accounting are on the companys website at knowledge, the report and accounts, standards have been followed.
The directors are taken as a whole, are fair, balanced responsible for the maintenance and and understandable and provide the integrity of the corporate and financial information necessary for shareholders information included on the companys to assess the performance, business website, and the work carried out by the model and strategy of the company auditors does not involve consideration andthe group.
Accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for The current directors and their functions are listed on pages 60 and 61. any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since By order of the board they were placed on the website.
Information published on the internet David Lawler Company Secretary is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
27 February 2014 Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Berendsen plc Report and 106 Accounts 2013 Always moving forward Significant growth ahead The UK hotel market is growing through new hotel openings by both existing groups and new entrants.
The key drivers are budget hotel brands and, especially in London, groups opening hotels of four-star quality and above.
As the UKs leading supplier to hotel groups, we are well positioned to take advantage of the significant growth in the UK hotel market.
2 9, 9 41 new hotel rooms expected to be built On average, a standard size 200 We have been selected by the leading inLondon alone in the next five years.
bedroom hotel will require around budget hotel operators to service over 450,000 textile items to be handled 30 new build hotels in 2013. inthe course of a year.
Strategic report Governance Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2013 107 108 Independent auditors report 118 A ccounting policies to the consolidated 171 Accounting policies to the parent financialstatements companyfinancial statements 112 Consolidated income statement 125 Notes to the consolidated financialstatements 174 N otes to the parent company 113 C onsolidated statement of financialstatements comprehensiveincome 169 Independent auditors report to the members ofBerendsen plc 179 Five year record 114 Consolidated balance sheet 170 Parent company financial statements 180 Shareholder information 115 Consolidated cash flow statement and calendar 116 Consolidated statement of changes inequity Financial statements.
