St Str ra ategic tegic repo repor rt t G Go ov five ernance rnance F Fi inanc financial ial statements statments Berendsen plc Report and 171 Accounts 2013 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements Basis of preparation These financial statements for the parent company are prepared on the going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of fixed asset investments, financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments through profit and loss and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards in the United Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently, are set out below.
The prior year balance sheet has been restated to reduce the pension asset of 18.8 million to nil to cap the recognition of asset at the level of future service costs.
Accordingly the profit and loss reserve has been restated by the corresponding amount.
The impact on profit and loss in 2012 as a result of this restatement was an increase in the pension charge by 2.3 million with a corresponding offset within actuarial gains.
Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are shown at cost less depreciation.
Costs include the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write-off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Straight-line % Plant and machinery 20-33 Short leasehold property 16.7 Fixed asset investments Investments are initially stated at cost.
Investments denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date, only to the extent that they are hedged by foreign currency borrowings.
All such exchange differences are offset directly in reserves.
Investments are tested for impairment when an event that might affect asset value has occurred.
An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount cannot be recovered either by selling the asset or by the discounted future cash flows from the investment.
Dividend distribution Final dividend distribution to the companys shareholders is recognised as a liability to the groups financial statements in the period in which the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided on a full provision basis, without discounting, on all timing differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Except where otherwise required by Accounting Standards, no timing differences are recognised in respect of: a Property revaluation surpluses where there is no commitment to sell the asset: b Gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over into replacement assets: c Additional tax which would arise if profits of overseas subsidiaries were distributed: and d Deferred tax assets except to the extent that it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Pension costs It is the policy of the company to fund defined benefit pension liabilities, on the advice of external actuaries, by payments to schemes controlled by independent trustees.
Pension costs are charged against profits on a systematic basis over the service lives of the eligible employees, based on payroll, actuarial methods and assumptions, in accordance with the actuaries advice.
The costs of defined contribution schemes or pension arrangements of a similar nature are charged against income as contributions become payable to the relevant scheme or arrangement.
The companys pension cost charged to the income statement is in accordance with FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
The FRS 17 valuation has been carried out at bid-value based on the recent amendment to FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
In line with FRS17 we have capped the recognition of the pension asset at the level of future service costs.
Key assumptions and other disclosures for this plan are included in the disclosures in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
Berendsen plc Report and 172 Accounts 2013 Accounting policies to the parent company financial statements Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method and if included in a fair value hedge relationship are revalued to reflect the fair value movements on the hedged risk associated with loans and other borrowings.
Borrowings are classified as non-current liabilities where the group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events and it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
Derivatives and other financial instruments Financial instruments Financial instruments are reported and measured in accordance with FRS 25 and FRS 26 respectively.
The company has availed itself of the exemption not to present FRS 29 disclosures in the notes to the entity financial statements as full equivalent disclosures are presented within the consolidated financial statements.
Financial instruments comprise non-derivative financial assets and liabilities, including amounts owed by and to group companies and borrowings and financial derivatives, whose value changes in line with movements in market rates.
The company uses derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to interest rate risks arising from financing and investment activities.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the company does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Fair value hedging, cash flow hedging and net investment hedging is applied.
Non-derivative financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
The companys financial assets are stated at the lower of their initial cost including accrued interest receivable and their estimated recoverable amount.
Non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as borrowings.
They are stated at their redeemable value, including accrued interest payable, less transaction costs that have not yet been recognised in the profit and loss account.
Where the change in value of a non-derivative financial liability, due to the movement in market interest rates, has been hedged with a financial derivative, its value is adjusted for the change in market value due to the financial risk being hedged.
Where such fair value hedging relationships exist, the change in the value of the liability being hedged should broadly offset the change in market value of the hedging instrument and any difference is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
Derivative financial instruments are stated at their market value in the balance sheet and are classified as current assets or liabilities, unless they form part of a hedging relationship, in which case their classification follows the classification of the hedged financial asset or liability.
Thus all currently held derivative financial instruments are classified as long term.
Interest expense reflects the underlying cost of borrowing arising from interest rate swaps.
Net payments and receipts under interest rate swap contracts are accrued over the period to which they relate and added to or credited against interest expense.
No accounting entries are required for the principal amount of interest rate swaps as it is purely a notional figure and does not represent an asset, a liability or a contingency.
St Str ra ategic tegic repo repor rt t G Go ov five ernance rnance F Fi inanc financial ial statements statments Berendsen plc Report and 173 Accounts 2013 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity and are recorded at par value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Where shares are issued above par value, the proceeds in excess of par value are recorded in the share premium account.
Where the company purchases the companys own equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to the shareholders until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental costs, is included in equity attributable to the shareholders.
Employee share schemes In accordance with the FRS 20 Accounting for share-based payments, an expense is recognised in the profit and loss account for the award to employees of shares in the companys UK HMRC approved Sharesave Scheme.
The company operates an Employee Benefit Trust to hold shares in the company for certain of the groups employees.
These employees, who are members of the groups various share-based schemes are entitled to receive shares as compensation for their performance.
The trust ensures that the obligation of these share issuances to employees through the purchase of the shares with finance provided by Berendsen plc or the employee.
The trust is an Employee Share Ownership Plan and under UK GAAP is accounted for in accordance with UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
Cash at bank and in hand Cash includes cash in hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
Cash flow statement and related party disclosures The parent company is included in the consolidated financial statements, which are publicly available.
Consequently, the company has followed convention and not prepared a cash flow statement.
There are no related party transactions other than those with group undertakings.
