Berendsen plc Report and 118 Accounts 2013 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Amendment to IAS 1, Financial IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses Basis of preparation statement presentation regarding the classification, measurement and The consolidated financial statements other comprehensive income.
The recognition of financial assets and have been prepared on a going concern main change resulting from these financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 was issued in basis in accordance with International amendments is a requirement for entities November 2009 and October 2010.
It Financial Reporting Standards as to group items presented in other replaces the parts of IAS 39 that relate adopted by the European Union comprehensive income OCI on the to the classification and measurement IFRSs as adopted by the EU, IFRIC basis of whether they are potentially of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 requires Interpretations and the Companies reclassifiable to profit or loss subsequently financial assets to be classified into two Act 2006 applicable to companies reclassification adjustments.
measurement categories: those reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated measured as at fair value and those financial statements have been prepared IAS 19, Employee benefits was measured at amortised cost.
mandatory with effect from 1 January under the historical cost convention, The determination is made at initial as modified by financial assets and 2013.
The changes on the groups recognition.
The classification depends accounting policies has been as follows: financial liabilities including derivative on the entitys business model for instruments at fair value through the to immediately recognise all past service managing its financial instruments and costs: and to replace interest cost and profit and loss account.
These policies the contractual cash flow characteristics have been consistently applied to all expected return on plan assets with a of the instrument.
For financial liabilities, net interest amount that is calculated the years presented.
the standard retains most of the IAS 39 by applying the discount rate to the net The preparation of financial statements requirements.
The main change is that, defined benefit liability asset.
As this in cases where the fair value option is in conformity with IFRS requires the use is a change in accounting policy the of certain critical accounting estimates.
taken for financial liabilities, the part of 2012 accounts have been restated with a fair value change due to an entitys It also requires management to exercise effect from 1 January 2012.
The impact its judgement in the process of applying own credit risk is recorded in other of this change is to reduce the reported comprehensive income rather than the the groups accounting policies.
The profit after tax for the year ended areas involving a higher degree of income statement, unless this creates an 31 December 2012 by 2.5m.
The group is yet judgement or complexity, or areas on the statement of changes in equity where assumptions and estimates are to assess IFRS 9s full impact and the and the statement of comprehensive group will also consider the impact of significant to the consolidated financial income is to increase other comprehensive statements are disclosed on page 124. the remaining phases of IFRS 9 when income by 2.5m for the year ended completed by the Board.
There is no impact Going concern on either the balance sheet or cash flow Consolidation statement for the same period as a The group meets its day-to-day working result of adopting the new standard.
The group financial statements capital requirements through its bank facilities.
The current economic conditions consolidate the financial statements IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, aims of the company and all its subsidiaries.
continue to create uncertainty particularly to improve consistency and reduce over a the level of demand for the Subsidiaries are all entities over which complexity by providing a precise the group has the power to govern the groups products: and b the availability definition of fair value and a single of bank finance for the foreseeable financial and operating policies generally source of fair value measurement and accompanying a shareholding of more future.
The groups forecasts and disclosure requirements for use across projections, taking account of than one half of the voting rights.
The requirements, which are Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from reasonably possible changes in trading largely aligned between IFRSs and US performance, show that the group the date on which control is transferred GAAP, do not extend the use of fair to the group and are fide-consolidated should be able to operate within the value accounting but provide guidance level of its current facilities.
After making from the date on which control ceases.
on how it should be applied where its enquiries, the directors have a use is already required or permitted by All intra-group transactions are reasonable expectation that the group other standards within IFRSs.
eliminated as part of the consolidation has adequate resources to continue in process.
Accounting policies of A number of new standards and operational existence for the foreseeable subsidiaries have been changed where amendments to standards and future.
The group therefore continues necessary to ensure consistency with interpretations are effective for annual to adopt the going concern basis in the policies adopted by the group.
periods beginning after 1 January 2013, preparing its consolidated financial and have not been applied in preparing statements.
Further information on the these consolidated financial statements.
groups borrowings is given in note 15.
None of these is expected to have a The following standards have been significant effect on the consolidated adopted by the group for the first time financial statements of the group, for the financial year beginning on or except the following set out below: after 1 January 2013 and have a material impact on the group: St Str ra ategic tegic repo repor rt t G Go ov five ernance rnance F Fi inanc financial ial statements statments Berendsen plc Report and 119 Accounts 2013 The Berendsen plc executive board c Group companies Business combinations manages the business under the The results and financial position of all The group uses the acquisition method business lines of Workwear, Facility, UK of accounting to account for business the group entities that have a functional Flat Linen, Flat Linen outside the UK, and currency different from the presentation combinations.
The consideration Clinical Solutions and Decontamination.
transferred for the acquisition of a currency are translated into the The groups internal reporting structure is presentation currency as follows: subsidiary is the fair values of the assets aligned on the same basis and segmental transferred, the liabilities incurred and information is presented on a basis, assets and liabilities for each balance the equity interests issued by the group.
consistent with this reporting structure.
sheet presented are translated at the The consideration transferred includes closing rate at the date of that the fair value of any asset or liability Foreign currency translation balance sheet: resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-, income and expenses for each income a Functional and related costs are expensed as incurred statement are translated at average presentation currency and disclosed as exceptional items exchange rates unless this average is where significant.
Identifiable assets Items included in the financial statements not a reasonable approximation of the acquired and liabilities and contingent of each of the groups entities are cumulative effect of the rates liabilities assumed in a business measured using the currency of the prevailing on the transaction dates, in combination are measured initially at primary economic environment in which which case income and expenses are their fair values at the acquisition date.
the entity operates the functional translated at the rate on the dates of The excess of the consideration currency.
The consolidated financial the transactions : and transferred, the amount of any nonstatements are presented in sterling, all resulting exchange differences are controlling interest in the acquiree and which is the companys functional and recognised as a separate component the acquisition date fair value of any presentation currency.
previous equity interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the groups share b Transactions and balances On consolidation, exchange differences of the identifiable net assets acquired is Foreign currency transactions are arising from the translation of the net recorded as goodwill.
If this is less than translated into the functional currency investment in foreign operations, and the fair value of the net assets of the using the exchange rates prevailing at of borrowings and other currency subsidiary acquired in the case of a the dates of the transactions.
Foreign instruments designated as hedges of bargain purchase, the difference is exchange gains and losses resulting such investments, are taken to recognised directly in the consolidated from the settlement of such transactions shareholders equity.
and from the translation at year-end operation is partially disposed of or exchange rates of monetary assets and sold, exchange differences that were Current assets held for sale liabilities denominated in foreign recorded in equity are recognised in the Current assets and disposal groups currencies are recognised in the income income statement as part of the gain or statement, except when deferred in classified as held for sale are measured loss on sale.
at the lower of carrying amount and fair equity as qualifying cash flow hedges Goodwill and fair value adjustments and qualifying net investment hedges.
values less costs to sell.
arising on the acquisition of a foreign Foreign exchange gains and losses that entity are treated as assets and liabilities Current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying relate to borrowings and cash and cash of the foreign entity and translated at equivalents are presented in the income the closing rate.
amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing statement within finance income or cost.
All other foreign exchange gains use.
This condition is regarded as met Pre-contract bid costs only when the sale is highly probable and losses are presented in the income Pre-contract costs are expensed as statement within operating expenses.
and the asset or disposal group is incurred until the group is appointed available for immediate sale in its Translation differences on non-monetary preferred bidder.
Preferred bidder status present condition.
Management must financial assets and liabilities are provides sufficient confidence that the be committed to the sale which should reported as part of the fair value gain or conclusion of the contract is probable, be expected to qualify for recognition loss.
Translation differences on nonthe outcome can be reliably measured as a completed sale within one year monetary financial assets and liabilities and is expected to generate sufficient from the date of classification.
such as equities held at fair value net cash inflows to enable recovery.
through profit or loss are recognised in Pre-contract costs incurred subsequent Segment reporting profit or loss as part of the fair value gain to appointment as preferred bidder are or loss.
Translation differences on nonOperating segments are reported in capitalised onto the balance sheet monetary financial assets such as a manner consistent with the internal under prepayments and accrued equities classified as available for sale reporting provided to the chief income.
The prepayment is expensed are included in other reserves.
The chief to the income statement over the period operating decision-maker, who is of the contract.
Costs, which have been responsible for allocating resources and expensed, are not subsequently assessing performance of the operating reinstated when a contract award segments, has been identified as the is achieved.
Berendsen plc Report and 120 Accounts 2013 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Directly attributable costs that are Property, plant Intangible assets capitalised as part of the software and equipment product include the software development a Goodwill Land and buildings comprise mainly employee costs and an appropriate factories and offices.
All property, plant Goodwill represents the excess of the portion of relevant overheads.
cost of an acquisition over the fair and equipment are shown at cost less Other development expenditures that do accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes value of the groups share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired not meet these criteria are recognised expenditure that is directly attributable as an expense as incurred.
Development to the acquisition of the items.
subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill net of amortisation prior to costs previously recognised as an Textile assets such as garments and expense are not recognised as an asset 1 January 2005 in respect of business linen and washroom equipment which combinations made since 1 January in a subsequent period.
are owned by the group entities where 1998 is included within intangible Computer software development costs substantially all the risks and rewards of assets.
Goodwill in respect of business recognised as assets are amortised over ownership of such equipment is retained combinations made on or before their estimated useful lives, which does by group entities are capitalised as non- 31 December 1997 remains eliminated not exceed five years.
current assets and depreciated over against reserves.
Goodwill has an indefinite useful life.
c Customer contracts Depreciation of assets is calculated Goodwill is tested annually for Intangible assets arising either from legal using the straight-line method to or contractual rights which have been allocate the cost of each asset to its impairment or if there is an indication of impairment.
Goodwill is allocated to purchased are required to be separately residual value over its estimated useful identified from goodwill and are stated life, as follows: groups of cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Gains at historical cost, or in the case of intangible assets acquired as part of a a Land and buildings and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill business combination, at fair value.
The Depreciated at a rate of 2% per annum fair value attributable to the customer relating to the entity sold except for on an estimate of the buildings value of goodwill eliminated against reserves.
contracts is determined by discounting freehold properties and leasehold the expected future cash flows to be properties with 50 or more years b Computer software generated from that asset at the risk unexpired at the balance sheet date.
adjusted weighted average cost of This rate has been determined having Acquired computer software licences capital for the entity.
This amount is are capitalised on the basis of the costs regard to the groups practice to amortised over the period in which the maintain these assets in a continual state incurred to acquire and bring to use company is expected to benefit from the specific software.
These costs are of sound repair and to extend and make the contracts acquired, over periods improvements from time to time.
amortised over their estimated useful ranging from two to five years.
lives not exceeding three years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Short leasehold land and buildings are Costs associated with maintaining Impairment of non-financial depreciated by equal instalments over computer software programs are assets the period of the lease.
recognised as an expense as incurred.
Assets that have an indefinite useful life Major renovations are depreciated over Development costs that are directly for example, goodwill are not subject attributable to the design and testing the remaining useful life of the related to amortisation and are tested annually asset or to the scheduled date of the next of identifiable and unique software for impairment.
products controlled by the group are major renovation, whichever is sooner.
recognised as intangible assets when Assets that are subject to amortisation the following criteria are met: b Plant and machinery or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes Depreciated at rates of 10% to 50%, it is technically feasible to complete in circumstances indicate that the per annum, depending on the class of the software product so that it will be carrying amount may not be recoverable.
available for use: An impairment loss is recognised for the, management intends to complete the amount by which the assets carrying c Textile assets and amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
software product and use or sell it: washroom equipment The recoverable amount is the higher, there is an ability to use or sell the Depreciated at rates of 20% to 40%, of an assets fair value less costs to sell software product: depending on class of asset, and and value in use.
For the purposes of, it can be demonstrated how the augmented where necessary by assessing impairment, assets are amounts to cover wastage, software product will generate grouped at the lowest levels for probable future economic benefits: obsolescence and loss.
which there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
adequate technical, financial and When properties, plant or equipment Non-financial assets other than goodwill other resources to complete the are sold, the difference between the that suffered impairment are reviewed development and to use or sell the sales proceeds and net book value is for possible reversal of the impairment software product are available: and included in the income statement.
the expenditure attributable to the Residual values and useful lives of assets software product during its are reviewed annually and amended development can be reliably measured.
St Str ra ategic tegic repo repor rt t G Go ov five ernance rnance F Fi inanc financial ial statements statments Berendsen plc Report and 121 Accounts 2013 a Fair value hedge d Derivatives that do not qualify Financial assets for hedge accounting Changes in the fair value of the The group classifies its non-derivative financial assets as loans and receivables.
derivatives that are fully designated and Changes in the fair value of any qualify as fair value hedges are recorded derivative instruments that do not The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets in the income statement, together with qualify for hedge accounting are any changes in the fair value of the recognised immediately in the were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at hedged asset or liability that are income statement.
attributable to the hedged risk.
e Energy contracts Loans and receivables are non-derivative The group has one fair value hedge in and textile procurement respect of a cross currency fixed to financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an floating interest rate swap.
If the hedge The group occasionally takes out energy no longer meets the criteria for hedge contracts in relation to the supply of gas active market.
accounting, the exchange component of and electricity.
In addition, from time to the derivative will continue to be taken time, the group may enter into forward Derivative financial to the income statement as part of contracts to buy cotton based textiles instruments and hedging operating expenses along with the at a future date.
Such contracts are not activities exchange on the related borrowings.
recognised as derivative financial Derivatives are initially recognised at fair The interest component of the derivative instruments as they are held with the value on the date a derivative contract item will be amortised to the income purpose of the receipt or delivery of a is entered into and are subsequently statement over the period to maturity.
non-financial item in accordance with remeasured at their fair value at each the entitys expected purchase, sale or balance sheet date.
The method of b Net investment hedge usage requirements.
recognising the resulting gain or loss Any gain or loss on the hedging depends on whether the derivative is Inventories instrument relating to the effective designated as a hedging instrument, and portion of the hedge is recognised Inventories are stated at the lower of if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The gain or cost and net realisable value.
Cost is The group designates certain derivatives loss relating to any ineffective portion determined using the first in, first out as either i hedges of the fair value of is recognised immediately in the FIFO method.
The cost of finished recognised assets or liabilities fair value income statement.
goods comprises of raw materials, direct hedge : or ii hedges of a particular risk labour, other direct costs and related Gains and losses accumulated in equity associated with a recognised asset or production overheads.
Net realisable are included in the income statement liability, or a highly probable forecast value is the estimated selling price in when the foreign operation is partially transaction cash flow hedge : or iii the ordinary course of business, less disposed of or sold.
hedges of net investments in foreign applicable variable selling expenses.
Full provision is made for obsolete, c Cash flow hedge defective and slow moving stock.
The group documents at the inception The effective portion of changes in of the transaction the relationship the fair value of derivatives that are between hedging instruments and Trade and other receivables designated to qualify as cash flow hedged items and its assessment, both Trade receivables are recognised initially hedges are recognised in equity.
The at hedge inception and on an ongoing at fair value less provision for impairment.
groups cash flow hedges which are in basis, of whether the derivatives that are They are subsequently held at amortised respect of cross-currency interest rate used in the hedging transactions are cost less provision for impairment.
swaps, interest rate swaps and forward highly effective in offsetting changes in A provision for impairment of trade foreign exchange contracts result in fair values of hedged items.
receivables is established when there recognition in either the currency is objective evidence that the group The fair values of various derivative translation component of equity or in instruments used for hedging purposes will not be able to collect all amounts the hedging reserve which forms part due according to the original terms of are shown in note 16.
Movements on the of other reserves.
hedging reserve are shown within the the receivables.
The amount of the When a hedging instrument expires or change in provision is recognised in statement of changes in equity as part is sold, or when the hedge no longer of other reserves.
The group holds no the income statement.
meets the criteria for hedge accounting, trading derivatives.
any cumulative gain or loss in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction ultimately occurs.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity will be transferred to the income statement.
Berendsen plc Report and 122 Accounts 2013 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Commitment and borrowing fees are Tax is recognised in the income Cash and cash equivalents capitalised as part of the loan and statement except to the extent that it Cash and cash equivalents are stated amortised over the life of the relevant relates to items recognised directly in net of bank overdrafts, where the group agreement.
All other borrowing costs equity, in which case it is recognised has a legal right of set off and includes are recognised in the income statement in equity.
cash in hand, deposits held at call with in the period in which they are incurred.
banks and other short-term highly liquid Employee benefits investments with original maturities of Borrowings are classified as non-current liabilities where the group has an three months or less.
a Pension obligations unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after Share capital The group operates various pension the balance sheet date.
The schemes are funded Ordinary shares are classified as equity through payments to insurance and are recorded at par value of proceeds Current and deferred companies or a trustee administered received, net of direct issue costs.
Where income tax fund, determined by periodic actuarial shares are issued above par value, the calculations.
The group has both defined proceeds in excess of par value are The current income tax charge is benefit and defined contribution plans.
recorded in the share premium account.
calculated on the basis of the tax laws A defined benefit plan is a pension plan enacted or substantively enacted at the Where any group company purchases that defines an amount of pension balance sheet date in the countries the companys equity share capital, benefit that an employee will receive where the groups subsidiaries operate the consideration paid, including any on retirement, usually dependent on one and generate taxable income.
directly attributable incremental costs, or more factors such as age, years of is deducted from equity attributable to service and compensation.
A defined Deferred income tax is recognised, using the companys shareholders until the the liability method, on temporary contribution plan is a pension plan under shares are cancelled, reissued or which the group pays fixed contributions differences arising between the tax disposed of.
Where such shares are bases of assets and liabilities and their into a separate entity.
The group has no subsequently sold or reissued, any legal or constructive obligations to pay carrying amounts in the consolidated consideration received, net of any financial statements.
However, the further contributions if the fund does directly attributable incremental costs, not hold sufficient assets to pay all deferred income tax is not accounted is included in equity attributable to the for, if it arises from initial recognition of employees the benefits relating to companys shareholders.
employee service in the current and an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the prior periods.
Trade payables time of the transaction affects neither The net asset recognised in the balance accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Trade payables are obligations to pay sheet in respect of defined benefit Deferred income tax is determined using pension plans is the present value of the for goods or services that have been tax rates and laws that have been acquired in the ordinary course of defined benefit obligation at the balance enacted or substantively enacted by the sheet date less the fair value of plan business from suppliers.
Accounts balance sheet date and are expected to payable are classified as current liabilities assets, together with adjustments for apply when the related deferred income unrecognised actuarial gains or losses if payment is due within one year or less tax asset is realised or the deferred or in the normal operating cycle of the and past service costs.
The defined income tax liability is settled.
benefit obligation is calculated annually business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The to the extent that it is probable that Trade payables are recognised initially future taxable profit will be available present value of the defined benefit at fair value and subsequently measured obligation is determined by discounting against which the temporary differences at amortised cost using the effective can be utilised.
the estimated future cash outflows using interest method.
interest rates of high quality corporate Deferred income tax is provided on bonds that are denominated in the temporary differences arising on Borrowings currency in which the benefits will be investments in subsidiaries and paid, and that have terms to maturity Borrowings are recognised initially at fair associates, except where the timing of approximating to the terms of the value, net of transaction costs incurred.
the reversal of the temporary difference related pension liability.
Any difference between the amount is controlled by the group and it is initially recognised net of transaction probable that the temporary difference The group recognises the surplus arising costs and the redemption value is on its deferred benefit schemes to the will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
recognised in the income statement extent that it has a legal right to do so Deferred income tax assets and liabilities over the period of the borrowings using under the scheme rules.
are offset when there is a legally the effective interest method.
enforceable right to offset current tax Current and past service costs, to the Borrowing costs which are directly extent they have vested, are recognised assets against current tax liabilities and attributable to the acquisition, when the deferred income taxes assets in operating costs in the income construction or production of a statement together with interest costs and liabilities relate to income taxes qualifying asset one that takes a levied by the same taxation authority on plan liabilities and the expected substantial period of time to get ready return on plan assets.
on either the taxable entity or different for use or sale are capitalised as part of taxable entities where there is an intention the cost of that asset, until such time as to settle the balances on a net basis.
the assets are ready for their intended use or sale.
St Str ra ategic tegic repo repor rt t G Go ov five ernance rnance F Fi inanc financial ial statements statments Berendsen plc Report and 123 Accounts 2013 Cumulative actuarial gains and losses The interest element of the finance cost Provisions arising from experience adjustments is charged to the income statement Provisions for vacant properties, and change in actuarial assumptions are over the lease period so as to produce restructuring costs and legal claims are credited or charged to the statement of a constant periodic rate of interest on recognised when the group has a comprehensive income and expense net the remaining balance of the liability present legal or constructive obligation of deferred tax.
Property, plant and as a result of past events and it is more equipment acquired under finance For defined contribution plans, the likely than not that an outflow of leases are depreciated over the shorter group pays contributions to publicly resources will be required to settle the of the assets useful life and the or privately administered pension obligation: and the amount has been lease term.
insurance or trustee administered plans reliably estimated.
on a mandatory, contractual or Leases where the lessor retains A provision for onerous contracts is voluntary basis.
The group has no substantially all the risks and rewards of recognised when the expected benefits further payment obligations once the ownership are classified as operating to be derived by the group from a contributions have been paid.
Payments made under operating contract are lower than the unavoidable contributions are recognised as leases net of any incentives received cost of meeting its obligations under employee benefit expense when they from the lessor are charged to the the contract.
Prepaid contributions are income statement on a straight-line recognised as an asset to the extent basis over the period of the lease.
Revenue recognition that a cash refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.
Dividend distribution Group revenue comprises the fair value for the rendering of services, net of value Final dividend distribution to the b Share-based payment plans added tax and other similar sales based companys shareholders is recognised taxes, rebates and discounts and after The groups management awards as a liability in the groups financial eliminating sales within the group.
employees share options, from time to statements in the period in which Revenue is recognised as follows: time, both on a discretionary and nonthe dividends are approved by the discretionary basis which are subject to companys shareholders.
Interim a Service income vesting conditions.
The economic cost dividends are recognised when paid.
of awarding the share options to its Income received or receivable in respect employees is recognised as an employee of service income is credited to revenue Income statement benefit expense in the income statement as and when services are rendered in presentation equivalent to the fair value of the benefit respect of mats, linen, washroom and awarded.
The fair value is determined by decontamination services.
Revenue is a Exceptional items reference to the Black-Scholes option recognised on a per item basis for Items that are material in size or pricing model.
The charge is recognised delivery of laundered textiles to hotels non-operating in nature are presented in the income statement over the and hospitals.
Revenue for supply and as exceptional items in the income vesting period of the award.
laundering of workwear is recognised on statement.
The directors are of the a regular, periodic basis in accordance The proceeds received are credited opinion that separate recording of with the terms of the contract.
to share capital nominal value and exceptional items provides helpful share premium when the options information about the groups b Sale of goods revenue are exercised.
For non-contract based business, Examples of events, which may give c Termination benefits revenue represents the value of rise to the classification of items as goods delivered.
exceptional include, inter alia, Termination benefits are payable when restructuring of businesses, gains and an employment is terminated before the Accrued income comprises revenue losses on disposal of properties, normal retirement date, or whenever an contractually earned for services acquisition costs, impairment of employee accepts voluntary redundancy performed that are invoiced to the goodwill and non-recurring income.
in exchange for these benefits.
The customer primarily in the following month.
group recognises termination benefits b Amortisation of customer contracts when it is shown to be committed to Leases either: terminating the employment of These are presented separately in Leases of property, plant and equipment current employees according to a the income statement as they arise where the group has substantially all the detailed formal plan without possibility from acquisitions.
risks and rewards of ownership are of withdrawal: or providing termination classified as finance leases.
Finance benefits as a result of an offer made to c Other operating expenses leases are capitalised at the leases encourage voluntary redundancy.
commencement at the lower of the fair These comprise the groups intangible value of the leased property and the asset amortisation and exceptional items.
d Holiday pay present value of the minimum lease Paid holidays are regarded as an employee payments.
Each lease payment is benefit and as such are charged to the allocated between the liability and income statement as the benefits are finance charges so as to achieve a earned.
An accrual is made at the balance constant rate on the finance balance sheet date to reflect the fair value of outstanding.
The corresponding lease holidays earned but not yet taken.
obligations, net of finance charges, are included in other long-term payables.
Berendsen plc Report and 124 Accounts 2013 Accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements Key assumptions and sources b Pensions and other postd Share-based payments of estimation uncertainty employment benefits The economic cost of awarding shares The preparation of the consolidated The group operates a number of defined and share options to employees is financial statements in conformity with benefit schemes within the UK and reflected by recording a charge in the IFRS requires management to make Europe note 27.
As at 31 December income statement equivalent to the fair estimates and assumptions that affect 2013 the present value of the groups value of the benefit awarded over the the application of policies and reported defined benefit obligation for funded vesting period.
The fair values of the amounts of assets, liabilities, income, plans was a surplus of 36.5 million and awards are determined by use of the expenses and related disclosures.
The a deficit of 29.4 million for unfunded Black-Scholes model.
estimates and underlying assumptions plans.
The calculations of the recognised are based on historical experience and assets and liabilities from such plans are e Provisions other relevant factors.
This approach based upon statistical and actuarial Provisions for vacant properties, forms the basis of making the calculations.
In particular the present restructuring costs and legal claims judgements about carrying values of value of the defined benefit obligation is are recognised when the group has a assets and liabilities that are not readily impacted by assumptions on discount present legal or constructive obligation apparent from other sources.
Actual rates used to arrive at the present value as a result of past events and it is more results may differ from these estimates.
of future pension liabilities, and likely than not that an outflow of assumptions on future increases in The estimates and underlying resources will be required to settle the salaries and benefits.
Furthermore, the assumptions are reviewed on an obligation: and the amount has been groups independent actuaries use ongoing basis.
Changes in accounting reliably estimated.
statistically based assumptions covering estimates may be necessary if there are areas such as future withdrawals of changes in the circumstances on which f Clinical Solutions and participants from the plan and estimates the estimate was based, or as a result Decontamination business on life expectancy.
The actuarial of new information.
Such changes are assumptions used may differ materially The Clinical Solutions and recognised in the period in which the from actual results due to changes in Decontamination business is separated estimate is revised.
market and economic conditions, higher into individual Cash Generating Units The key assumptions about the future or lower withdrawal rates or longer or CGU as there are separate assets and and key sources of estimation shorter life spans of participants and cash flows for each CGU.
As a result of uncertainty that have a risk of causing other changes in the factors being ongoing losses on the two a material adjustment to the carrying assessed.
These differences could decontamination contracts, a provision value of assets and liabilities within the impact the assets or liabilities for 9.9 million was recognised in 2010. next 12 months are described below.
recognised in the balance sheet in future The key assumption used in determining periods.
The last triennial valuation of the onerous contract provision is the a Property, plant and equipment and the main UK pension scheme took place period over which mitigating actions are intangible assets, including goodwill in February 2013. planned to achieve a financially sustainable position.
This period was The group has property, plant and c Income taxes assessed in 2010 as being four years, equipment with a carrying value of with the losses being principally incurred 508.0 million note 10, goodwill with a At 31 December 2013, the net liability in the first two years.
0.9 million of the carrying value of 423.4 million note 8 for current income taxes is 9.4 million provision was utilised in 2013. and intangible assets with a carrying and the net liability for deferred income value of 50.5 million note 9.
These taxes is 42.0 million note 19.
As set out in note 4 of the financial assets are reviewed annually for Estimates may be required in statements the group has re-assessed impairment as described above.
A value determining the level of current and the level of provision required at the end in use model is used.
To assess if any deferred income tax assets and liabilities, of 2013 to reflect the progress that has impairment exists, estimates are made which management believes are been made in turning around the two of the future cash flows expected to reasonable and adequately recognises decontamination contracts.
As a result from the use of the assets and any income tax related uncertainties.
consequence of this reassessment an their eventual disposal.
Actual outcomes exceptional release of 1.8m has been Various factors may have favourable could vary from such estimates of made to the income statement in 2013. or unfavourable effects on the income discounted future cash flows.
Factors tax assets and liabilities.
These include such as changes in the planned use of changes in tax laws in the jurisdiction buildings, machinery or equipment, or we operate in, tax rates, interpretations closure of facilities, the presence of of existing tax laws, future levels of competition, or lower than anticipated spending and in overall levels of sales could result in shortened useful future earnings.
