TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW BERKELEYS PRINCIPAL OPERATING RISKS Risk Description Mitigation ECONOMIC CONDITIONS As a property developer Berkeleys business, in the Berkeleys business strategy reflects the cyclical nature of property development.
context of the wider housing market, is sensitive to Funds are carefully targeted at investing only in land which is underpinned by demand changes in interest rates, unemployment and general fundamentals that support a solid viability case even when markets are uncertain.
Some of its customers are also sensitive to changes in the sterling exchange rate.
Levels of committed expenditure are carefully monitored against sales secured and bank facilities available, with the objective of keeping financial risk low to mitigate Significant economic uncertainty exists in the UK, the operating risks of delivery in uncertain markets.
Europe and worldwide and this may lead to a reduction in demand for housing which could The business is committed to operating at an optimal size, with a strong balance impact on the Groups ability to deliver its sheet, to maintain the flexibility to react swiftly, when necessary, to changes in corporate strategy.
REGULATION Adverse changes to Government policy on areas The effects of changes to Government policies at all levels are closely monitored and such as taxation, housing and environmental representations made where necessary.
matters could restrict the ability of the Group to Berkeleys experienced teams are well-placed to interpret and implement new deliver its strategy.
regulation at the appropriate time through direct lines of communication across the Failure to comply with laws and regulations Group.
Detailed policies and procedures are in place and these are communicated could expose the Group to penalties and to all staff.
PLANNING Delays or refusals in obtaining commercially Full detailed planning and risk assessments are performed and monitored for each viable planning permissions on the Groups land site without planning permission, both before and after purchase.
holdings could result in the Group being unable The planning status of all sites is reviewed at monthly divisional Board meetings and to develop the land it has purchased.
This could have a direct impact on the The Group works closely with local communities in respect of planning proposals and Groups ability to deliver its product and on strong local relationships are maintained with local authorities and planning officers.
The Group is focused on the markets of London and the South of England in planning regimes which it understands and where it believes it therefore has a competitive advantage.
PEOPLE An inability to attract, develop, motivate and retain Remuneration packages are constantly benchmarked against the industry to ensure talented employees could have an impact on the they remain competitive.
Groups ability to deliver its strategic priorities.
Succession planning is regularly reviewed at both divisional and Main Board level.
Failure to consider the retention and succession Close relationships and dialogue are maintained with key personnel.
of key management could result in a loss of knowledge and competitive advantage.
SALES An inability to match supply to demand in terms of Detailed market demand assessments of each site are undertaken before acquisition, product, location and price could result in missed and regularly during delivery of each scheme, to ensure that supply is matched to sales targets and or inefficient levels of completed demand in each location.
stock which in turn could impact on the Groups Design, product type and product quality are all assessed on a site-by-site basis to ability to deliver its corporate strategy.
ensure that they meet the target market and customer aspirations in that location.
The Group has a diverse range of developments with homes available at a broad range of property prices to appeal to a wide market.
Forward sales are used to take the risk out of the development cycle where possible, thereby justifying the financial investment in each of the Groups sites.
Completed stock levels are reviewed and debated at monthly divisional Board meetings and bi-monthly Main Board meetings.
MORTGAGE AVAILABILITY Mortgage providers have been negatively impacted Berkeley has a broad product mix and customer base which reduces the reliance on by the financial crisis and this has reduced their mortgage availability across its portfolio.
ability to provide mortgages to potential purchasers.
The Group is participating in the Government backed mortgage indemnity scheme, An inability of customers to secure sufficient NewBuy, on a number of its schemes and on the Governments new Help to Buy scheme.
mortgage finance could have a direct impact on Deposits are taken on all sales to mitigate the financial impact on the Group in the the Groups transaction levels.
event that sales do not complete due to a lack of mortgage availability.
indd 52 22 07 2013 15:23 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW Risk Description Mitigation SUSTAINABILITY Berkeley is hugely aware of the environmental Vision2020 provides the framework under which the Groups approach to running a and social impact of the homes and communities sustainable business is formalised.
This provides a framework under which detailed that it builds, both during the construction commitments are set out to be adopted and embraced by all staff.
phase and on occupation by its customers.
A Board level Sustainability and Health & Safety Governance Committee has the Failure to address sustainability issues could responsibility of setting the Groups direction in this area, to ensure that it is aligned affect the Groups ability to acquire land, gain with the Groups strategy.
planning permission, manage sites effectively Specific commitments to deliver sustainable communities, minimise the impact of the and respond to increasing customer demand homes that Berkeley builds and to manage the environmental and social impacts of for sustainable homes.
Berkeleys business form the bedrock of this approach.
Environmental and Social Sustainability assessments are built into land purchases and planning applications.
Sustainability commitments during delivery include the use of environmental performance methodology, a focus on brownfield development and the monitoring of carbon emissions, amongst others.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Berkeleys operations have a direct impact on the A Board level Sustainability Health & Safety Governance Committee has the health and safety of its people, contractors and responsibility of setting the Groups Health & Safety strategy.
Berkeley considers this Dedicated Health & Safety teams are in place in each division and at Head Office.
to be an area of critical importance.
Procedures, training and reporting are all regularly reviewed to ensure high standards A lack of adequate procedures and systems to are maintained, and comprehensive accident investigation procedures are in place.
reduce the dangers inherent in the construction The Group has implemented a number of initiatives to improve Health & Safety process increases the risk of accidents or standards on site, with workshops held with contractors during the year.
site-related catastrophes, including fire and flood, which could result in serious injury or loss Vision2020 incorporates commitments in the area of Health & Safety which reinforce of life leading to reputational damage, financial the Groups focus on this.
Adequate insurance is held to cover the risks inherent in penalties and disruption to operations.
LAND AVAILABILITY An inability to source suitable land to maintain Berkeleys strategy is to acquire land opportunistically, where it meets its internal the Groups land bank at appropriate margins in criteria for purchase.
a highly competitive market could impact on the Land acquisition is focused on Berkeleys core markets of London and the South of Groups ability to deliver its corporate strategy.
England, markets which it understands and where it believes that the demand fundamentals are strong.
Each land acquisition is subject to formal internal appraisal and approval processes both prior to the submission of a bid and again prior to exchange of contracts.
The Group maintains a land bank to mitigate against significant impacts from market changes or delayed build activity.
Berkeley has experienced land teams with strong market knowledge in its areas of focus.
BUILD COST AND PROGRAMME Build costs are affected by the availability of A procurement and programming strategy for each development is agreed by the skilled labour and the price and availability divisional Board before site acquisition.
Changes to these prices and A further assessment of procurement and programming is undertaken and agreed by availability could impact on the profitability the divisional Board prior to the commencement of construction.
Build cost reconciliations and build programme dates are presented and reviewed in detail at divisional cost review meetings each month.
PRODUCT QUALITY Berkeley has a reputation for the high standards Detailed reviews are undertaken of the product on each scheme both during the of quality of its product.
If the Group fails to acquisition of the site and throughout the build process to ensure that the quality deliver against these standards, it could be of the product is maintained.
exposed to reputational damage, as well as Customer Satisfaction surveys are undertaken on the handover of all private reduced sales and increased cost.
apartments, and feedback incorporated in shaping the specification and quality of subsequent schemes.
indd 53 22 07 2013 15:23 View of One Tower Bridge under construction 54 BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
indd 54 22 07 2013 15:23 HIGHLIGHTS BUILDING HOMES FOR EVERYONE RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS TRADING & FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2013 55 9597 001 RA 2013 Front AW.
