128 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Information for shareholders Financial calendar Ex-dividend date 19 June 2013 Record date 21 June 2013 Annual General Meeting 18 July 2013 Final dividend to be paid 26 July 2013 Half-year results available online only November 2013 Interim dividend expected to be paid January 2014 The 2013 Annual General Meeting will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 18 July 2013 at 11.00am.
For further details please see the Notice of Annual General Meeting 2013.
In the past, some of our shareholders have received unsolicited If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters nn always ensure the firm is on the Financial Conduct Authority FCA from organisations orpersons claiming or implying that they have Register and is allowed to give financial advice before handing over some connection with the Company.
These are typically from your money.
uk register: overseas based brokers who target UKshareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless orhigh risk shares in nn double-check the caller is from the firm they say they are ask for UK or overseas investments.
Shareholders are advised tobe very their name and telephone number and say you will call them back.
wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount Check their identity by calling the firm using the contact number oroffers of free reports into the Company.
These approaches are listed on the FCARegister.
This is important as there have been operated out ofwhat is more commonly known as a boiler room.
instances where an authorised firms website has been cloned but You may also beapproached by brokers offering to purchase your with a few subtle changes, such as a different phone number or shares for an upfront payment in the form of a broker fee, tax false email address: payment or fide-restriction fee.
Thisisacommon secondary scam nn check the FCAs list of known unauthorised overseas firms.
operated by the boiler rooms.
However, these firms change their name regularly, so even if a firm isnotlisted it does not mean they are legitimate.
Always check that they arelisted on the FCA Register: nn if you have any doubts, call the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you dealwith an unauthorised firm, you will notbe eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Annual and reports and Half-yearly reports online If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including annual reports and notices ofmeetings, please visit our Registrars website at www.
co. uk clients 3isignup and follow the instructionsthere to register.
The 2013 half-yearly report will be available online only.
Please register to ensure you are notified when it becomes available.
More general information on electronic communications is available on our website at www.
com investor-relations  Investor relations and general enquiries For all investor relations and general enquiries about 3i Group plc, including requests for further copies of the Report and accounts, please contact: Investor relations 3i Group plc 16 Palace Street London SW1E 5JD Telephone 44 0 20 7975 3131 email IRTeam@3i.
com or visit the Investor relations section of our website at www.
com investor-relations, for full up-to-date investor relations information, including the latest share price, results presentations and financial news.
Registrars For shareholder administration enquiries, including changes ofaddress please contact: Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA Telephone 0871 384 2031 Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Calls to this number are charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline, other telephony provider costs may vary.
Lines are open from 8.30am Printed by Pureprint Group who are a CarbonNeutral printer certified to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
toISO14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS theEcoManagement Audit Scheme.
Printed using vegetable oil based inks.
International callers 44 121 415 7183 The report is printed on Amadeus 50% Silk which is FSC certified Directors report View online andcontains50% recycled waste and 50% virgin fibre.
3i Group plc Pages 2 to 75 comprise the Directors report and pages For more information on 3is business, 76 to 85 comprise the Directors remuneration report, Registered office: FSC Forest Stewardship Council its portfolio and the latest news, please visit: both of which are presented in accordance with English 16 Palace Street, This ensures that there is an audited company law.
The liabilities of Directors in connection London SW1E 5JD, UK chainofcustody from the tree in the www.
com with these reports shall be subject to the limitations and well-managed forest through to the restrictions provided by such law.
These reports are Registered in England No.
1142830 finisheddocument in the printing factory.
intended to provide information to shareholders and are Register online not designed to be relied upon by any other party or for An investment company as defined by section 833 of the Companies To receive shareholder communications ISO 14001 any other purpose.
A pattern of control for an electronically, including annual reports and Disclaimer  system notices of meetings, please register at: This Annual report and accounts may contain stateagainstwhich an organisation can ments about the future, including certain statements beaccredited by a third party.
com investor-relations about the future outlook for 3i Group plc and its subsidiaries 3i.
These are not guarantees of future CarbonNeutral Sign up for 3i news performance and will not be updated.
Although we The CO emissions associated with 2 believe our expectations are based on reasonable theproduction and distribution of To be kept up-to-date with 3is latest financial assumptions, any statements about the future outlook ourAnnualReport and accounts 2012 news and press releases, sign upforalerts at: may be influenced by factors that could cause actual havebeen measured and reduced outcomes and results to be materially different.
tonetzerothrough the Renew Portfolio www.
com investor-relations of100% renewable energy projects.
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 3i Group plc 16 Palace Street, London SW1E 5JD, UK Telephone 44 0 20 7975 3131 M727913 May 2013 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Private Equity Infrastructure Debt Management Register online To receive shareholder communications electronically, including annual reports and notices of meetings, please register at: www.
com investor-relations  Sign up for 3i news To be kept up-to-date with 3is latest financial news and press releases, sign up for alerts at: www.
com investor-relations financial-news email-alerts Website www.
