Financial statements 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 91 Significant accounting policies 3i Group plc the Company is a company registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements for the year to 31 March 2013 comprise the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
Separate financial statements of the Company are also presented.
The accounting policies of the Company are the same as for the Group except where separately disclosed.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 15 May 2013.
A Statement of compliance These consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards and their interpretations issued or adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board as adopted foruse in the European Union IFRS.
These consolidated and separate financial statements have been prepared in accordance with and in compliance with the Companies Act 2006.
New standards and interpretations not applied The IASB has issued the following standards and interpretations to be applied to financial statements with periods commencing on or after the following dates: Effective for period beginning on or after IFRS 7 Amendment to offsetting financial assets and liabilities 1 January 2013 IFRS 9 Financial instruments classification and measurement 1 January 2015 IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosure of interest in other entities 1 January 2014 IFRS 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013 IAS 19 Amendment to employee benefits 1 January 2013 IAS 27 Amendment to separate financial statements 1 January 2014 IAS 28 Amendment to Investments in associates and joint ventures 1 January 2014 IAS 32 Amendment to offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities 1 January 2014 With the exception of IFRS 10, 11, 12 and IAS 27 and 28 the Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the financial statements in the period of initial application and have decided not to adopt early.
The initial application of IFRS 10 and 12 could have a material effect on the financial statements of the Group.
The principle potential impact is theconsolidation of the portfolio investments and funds managed by 3i in the Group financial statements.
In October 2012 the IASB announced amendments to these standards.
The amendments define an Investment Entity and require a parent that is an investment entity to measure its investments in particular subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments instead of consolidating those subsidiaries in its consolidated and separate financial statements.
As currently drafted, we expect that 3i Group plc will qualify as an Investment Entity.
However we will not be able to adopt this standard until it has been endorsed by the EU.
B Basis of preparation The financial statements are presented in sterling, the functional currency of the Company, rounded to the nearest million pounds m except where otherwise indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The most significant estimates relate to the fair valuation of the investment portfolio and the actuarial valuation ofthe defined benefit pension scheme.
These are further disclosed in accounting policies C, E and K and notes 9 and 13.
The actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Thestatement of comprehensive income of the Company has been omitted from these financial statements in accordance with section 408 oftheCompanies Act 2006.
The accounting policies have been consistently applied across all Group entities for the purposes of producing these consolidated financialstatements.
92 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Significant accounting policies C Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial andoperating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefit from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the statement of financial position at fair value even though the Group may have significant influence over those companies.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 28 Investment in Associates, which requires investments held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period of the change.
The Group has no interests in associates through which it carries on its business.
iii Joint ventures Interests in joint ventures that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
This treatment ispermitted by IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, which requires venturers interests held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from itsscope where those investments are designated, upon initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the period of the change.
D Exchange differences i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in currencies different from the functional currency of the Group entity entering into the transaction are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated to sterling using exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
ii Financial statements of non-sterling operations The assets and liabilities of operations whose functional currency is not sterling, including fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to sterling at exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of these operations are translated to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated within a separate component of equity, the Translation reserve, and are released upon disposal of the non-sterling operation.
In respect of non-sterling operations, cumulative translation differences on the consolidation of non-sterling operations are being accumulated from the date of transition to IFRS, 1 April 2004, and not from the original acquisition date.
E Investment portfolio i Recognition and measurement Investments are recognised and fide-recognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require the delivery or settlement of the investment.
The Group manages its investments with a view to profiting from the receipt of investment income and capital appreciation from changes in the fair value of equity investments.
Quoted investments are designated at fair value through profit and loss and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Fair value ismeasured using the closing bid price at the reporting date, where the investment is quoted on an active stock market.
Unquoted equity investments are designated at fair value through profit and loss and are subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Fair value is measured using the International Private Equity and Venture Capital valuation guidelines IPEV, details of which are in the section called Portfolio valuation an explanation.
Other investments includes loan investments, bonds and fixed income shares.
Loans, bonds and fixed income shares are carried in the balance sheet at amortised cost less impairment.
For more detail see the section called Portfolio valuation an explanation.
The fair value of loans and receivables is not anticipated to be substantially different to the holding value.
Financial statements 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 93 The traded portfolio includes investments in loans and associated investments which are traded on a regular basis within Palace Street I, the Credit Opportunities Fund.
These loans are measured at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition and classified as held for trading in accordance with IAS 39.
All investments are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given and held at this value until it is appropriate to measure fair valueon a different basis, applying 3i Groups valuation policies.
Interest bearing loans accrue interest which is either settled in cash or capitalised on a regular basis and included as part of the principal loan balance.
The capitalisation of accrued interest is treated as part of investment additions during the year.
If the fair value of an investment is assessed to be below the principal value of the loan the Group recognises a provision against any interest income accrued from the date of the assessment going forward.
Capitalisation at nil value is the term used to describe the capitalisation of accrued interest which has been fully provided for.
These transactions are disclosed as additions to portfolio cost with an equal reduction in portfolio value.
ii Income Gross portfolio return is equivalent to revenue for the purposes of IAS 1.
It represents the overall increase in net assets from the investment portfolio net of deal-related costs but excluding exchange movements.
Investment income is analysed into the following components: a Realised profits or losses over value on the disposal of investments are the difference between the fair value of the consideration received less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity, traded loans and the repayment of loans and receivables, and its carrying value at the start ofthe accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal.
b Unrealised profits or losses on the revaluation of investments are the movement in the carrying value of investments between the start andend of the accounting period converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of the movement.
c Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that itisprobable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
The following specific recognition criteria must bemetbefore the income is recognised: nnDividends from equity investments are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
nnIncome from loans and receivables and the traded portfolio is recognised as it accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the financial asset tothe assets carrying value.
When the fair value of an investment is assessed to be below the principal value of a loan the Group recognises aprovision against any interest accrued from the date of the assessment going forward until the investment is assessed tohave recovered in value.
nnFee income is earned directly from investee companies when an investment is first made and through the life of the investment.
Fees that areearned on a financing arrangement are considered to relate to a financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss and are recognised when that investment is made.
Fees that are earned on the basis of providing an ongoing service to the investee company are recognised as that service is provided.
F Fees receivable from external funds i Fund management fees The Group manages private equity, infrastructure and debt management funds.
Fees earned from the ongoing management of these funds arerecognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
ii Advisory fees The Group acts as investment adviser to private equity and infrastructure funds.
Fees earned from the provision of investment advisory servicesare recognised onan accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant investment advisory agreement.
iii Performance fees The Group earns a performance fee from funds to which it provides investment advisory services where specified performance targets areachieved.
Performance fees are recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can bereliablymeasured.
iv Support services fees The Group provides support services to external funds, including accounting, treasury management, corporate secretariat and investor relations.
Fees earned from the provision of these support services are recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the relevant supportservices agreement.
94 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Significant accounting policies G Carried interest i Carried interest receivable The Group earns a share of profits carried interest receivable from funds which it manages on behalf of third parties.
These profits are earned once the funds meet certain performance conditions.
Carried interest receivable is only accrued on those managed funds in which the funds performance conditions, measured at the balance sheet date, would be achieved if the remaining assets in the fund were realised at fair value.
Fair value is determined using the Groups valuation methodology and is measured at the balance sheet date.
An accrual is made equal to the Groups share of profits in excess of the performance conditions, taking into account the cash already returned to fund investors and the fair value of assets remaining in the fund.
ii Carried interest payable The Group offers investment executives the opportunity to participate in the returns from successful investments.
Carried interest payable isthe term used for amounts payable to executives on investment-related transactions.
A variety of asset pooling arrangements are in place so that executives may have an interest in one or more carried interest scheme.
Carriedinterest payable is only accrued on those schemes in which the schemes performance conditions, measured at the balance sheet date, would beachieved if the remaining assets in the scheme were realised at fair value.
An accrual is made equal to the executives share of profits inexcessofthe performance conditions in place in the carried interest scheme.
H Intangible assets Fund management contracts, such as those acquired by the Group in connection with the acquisition of a subsidiary, are stated at their fair value at the date of acquisition less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the fund management contract, typically five to 10 years.
I Property, plant and equipment i Land and buildings Land and buildings are carried in the balance sheet at fair value less depreciation and impairment.
Fair value is determined at each balance sheetdate from valuations undertaken by professional valuers using market-based evidence.
Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other comprehensive income and credited to the Capital reserve except to the extent that it reverses a previous valuation deficit on the same asset recognised in profit or loss in which case the surplus is recognised in profit or loss to the extent of the previous deficit.
Any revaluation deficit that offsets a previously recognised surplus in the same asset is directly offset against the surplus in the Capital reserve.
Any excess valuation deficit over and above that previously recognised in surplus is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Depreciation on revalued buildings is charged in the statement of comprehensive income over their estimated useful life, generally over 50 years.
ii Vehicles and office equipment Vehicles and office equipment are depreciated by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives as follows: office equipment fiveyears: computer equipment three years: computer software three years: motor vehicles four years.
iii Assets held under finance leases Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful life on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the lease term.
Assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The interest element of the rental obligations is charged in the statement of comprehensive income over the period of the agreement and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.
iv Leasehold improvements Leasehold improvements are depreciated by equal annual instalments, over the shorter of their estimated useful lives and the lease term.
Assetsare reviewed for impairment where events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
J Treasury assets and liabilities Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term treasury liabilities are used in order to manage cash flows and overall costs of borrowing.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
fide-recognition occurs when rights to cash flows from a financial asset expire, or when a liability is extinguished.
Financial statements 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 95 i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits as defined above and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, net ofbank overdrafts.
ii Deposits Deposits in the balance sheet comprise longer term deposits with an original maturity of greater than three months.
iii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, these are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash flows through the expected life of the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on settlement.
iv Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are used to manage the risk associated with foreign currency fluctuations of the investment portfolio and changes in interest rates on its borrowings.
This is achieved by the use of foreign exchange contracts, currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
Allderivative financial instruments are held at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the contract date and subsequently re-measured to the fair value at each reporting date.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange contracts for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of currency swaps and interest rate swaps is determined with reference to future cash flows and current interest and exchange rates.
All changes in the fair value of financial instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
K Employee benefits i Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit plans are charged to the statement of comprehensive income as they fall due.
For defined benefit retirement plans, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit method with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Current service costs are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in full as they arise in other comprehensive income.
A retirement benefit deficit is recognised in the balance sheet to the extent that the present value of the defined benefit obligations exceeds thefairvalue of plan assets.
A retirement benefit surplus is recognised in the balance sheet where the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of the defined benefit obligations limited to the extent that the Group can benefit from that surplus.
ii Share-based payments The costs of share based payments made by the Company in respect of subsidiaries employees are treated as additional investments inthosesubsidiaries.
The Group has equity-settled and cash settled share-based payment transactions with certain employees.
Equity settled schemes are measuredat fair value at the date of grant, which is then recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over thevesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of an appropriate model.
Invaluing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of3iGroup plc.
Thecharge is adjusted at each balance sheet date to reflect the actual number of forfeitures, cancellations and leavers during theperiod.
Themovement in cumulative charges since the previous balance sheet is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income, withacorresponding entry in equity.
Liabilities arising from cash settled share based payment transactions are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the vesting period.
They are fair valued at each reporting date.
The cost of cash settled share based payment transactions is adjusted for the forfeitures of the participants rights that no longer meet the plan requirements as well as for early vesting.
96 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Significant accounting policies L Other assets Assets, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated at their cost less impairment losses.
They are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated based on expected discounted future cash flows.
Any change in the level of impairment is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income.
An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent balance sheet dates to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed its carrying value had no impairment been recognised.
M Other liabilities Liabilities, other than those specifically accounted for under a separate policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be payable in respect of goods or services received up to the balance sheet date.
N Share capital Ordinary shares issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds or fair value received with the excess of the amount received over nominal value being credited to the share premium account.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from equity.
O Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation of uncertain timing or amount as a result of past events, and it is probable thatthe Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate of that obligation can be made.
The provisions are measured attheDirectors best estimate of the amount to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value if the effect ismaterial.
Changes in provisions are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income for the period.
P Income taxes Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or credited in the statement of comprehensive income, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt within equity.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
This may differ from the profit included in the statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit temporary differences, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Where there are taxable differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax liabilities are recognised except where the Group is able to control reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
However, where there are deductible temporary differences arising from investments in subsidiaries, branches and associates, and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that both the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can beutilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary differences arise from the initial recognition of goodwill and other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
