62 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Board and Committees Board and Committees structure How the Board operates It is the Boards responsibility to ensure that there is an effective The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring organisational and reporting structure in place such that there its effectiveness.
He is also responsible for organising the business of areclear reporting lines within the Group and well defined roles and the Board and setting its agenda.
In addition to the Chairman, there responsibilities.
This is to ensure that the right decisions are being are currently five independent non-executive Directors who have made with involvement from the right people.
arange of strong and complementary skills.
The Board is assisted by various standing Committees of the Board The table set out on page 69 provides details of attendance at full which report regularly to the Board.
In undertaking its duties, the meetings of the Board and its Committees during the last year.
Board delegates certain authorities and decisions to its Committees.
In addition to those full meetings, a number of ad hoc meetings The Board committee structure, including a summary of the roles and wereheld to deal with specific items as they arose.
composition of the Committees, is outlined in the diagram on page 63.
Prior to each full meeting of the Board and its Committees, and as The membership of these Committees is regularly reviewed by the required for ad hoc meetings, relevant reports and papers, including Board.
When considering Board Committee membership and financial performance data and detailed updates on the progress and chairmanship, the Board aims to ensure that undue reliance is not implementation of the strategic plan where appropriate, are circulated placed on particular Directors.
These Board Committees all have clearly defined terms of reference.
The Board has the opportunity to discuss these reports and updates Theterms of reference of the Audit and Compliance Committee, and to challenge directly the Executive Directors and other senior theBrand and Values Committee, the Nominations Committee, management, who attend all or part of the Board meetings.
theRemuneration Committee and the Valuations Committee are available at www.
The key responsibilities and areas of focus for the Board are: Day-to-day management of the Group is the responsibility of the nn Strategy contribute to the development of, and agree, the Groups ChiefExecutive.
To assist him in this role, the Chief Executive has strategy.
This includes through review and discussion of reports established a number of additional Committees.
These are also and updates at Board meetings as well as through the annual outlined in the diagram on page 63. strategy review meeting which is attended by the Board and members of the Executive Committee.
As part of the new strategy announced in June last year, the Groups organisational structure has been simplified and processes have been nn Group financial and operational performance review and streamlined.
A number of committee structures were rationalised in monitorthe performance of the Group, including through regular order to reduce organisational complexity and to enable better and reporting and discussions with the Executive Committee and other more efficient decision-making.
A new leadership team, the Executive senior management.
Committee, was established by the Chief Executive as the principal nn Senior management ensure that the Executive Committee has day-to-day decision-making body for the management of the Group.
the skills and resources to deliver the strategy and that appropriate A new Group Investment Committee was also put in place, responsible succession and contingency planning is in place.
for the acquisition, management and disposal of investments.
nn Evaluation and composition review the performance of the Board and its Committees to ensure that they are effective.
Ensure that theBoard and its Committees comprise competent and capable individuals with arange of skills and experience who bring independent views to the decisions being made.
nn Internal controls maintain an appropriate internal control framework.
nn Risk ensure that there are effective risk management policies andprocesses in place and an appropriate governance structure.
To help the Board discharge its duties, it has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and its duly authorised Committees for decision.
This is described on page 69.
Matters delegated by the Board to management include implementation of the Board approved strategy, day-to-day management and operation of the business, the appointment and remuneration of all staff below the Executive Committee and the formulation and implementation of risk management policies and processes.
Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 63 Overview of Committees of the Board and Chief Executive 3i Group plc Board Board level Committees Audit and Compliance Remuneration Brand and Values Nominations Valuations Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Director and senior Board appointments, management Corporate values, andsize, balance Financial reporting, remuneration and Group ethicalapproach, andcomposition Valuation policy and riskand internal controls remuneration structure brandand reputation ofthe Board investment valuations Richard Meddings Jonathan Asquith Sir Adrian Montague Sir Adrian Montague Willem Mesdag Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Jonathan Asquith Alistair Cox Simon Borrows Jonathan Asquith Sir Adrian Montague Alistair Cox Willem Mesdag Kevin Dunn Simon Borrows Simon Borrows Martine Verluyten Alistair Cox Julia Wilson All non-executive Directors Richard Meddings are invited toattend and participate in the Willem Mesdag Committeesmeetings.
Martine Verluyten Chief Executive Chief Executives Committees Executive Committee Investment Committee Group Risk Committee Conflicts Committee Principal decision-making body in Acquisition, management Oversees the Groups risk Independent review respect of managing the business anddisposal of investments management framework ofconflict issues Simon Borrows Chairman Simon Borrows Chairman Simon Borrows Chairman Kevin Dunn Chairman Julia Wilson Julia Wilson Julia Wilson Julia Wilson Menno Antal Menno Antal Menno Antal Ben Loomes Kevin Dunn Alan Giddins Kevin Dunn Jeremy Ghose Cressida Hogg Jeremy Ghose Alan Giddins Ben Loomes Alan Giddins Cressida Hogg Ian Lobley Senior Private Cressida Hogg Ben Loomes Equity Partner Ben Loomes Director, Group Compliance Director, Internal Audit 64 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Division of responsibilities The table below summarises the division of responsibilities between the Directors, including the Chairman and ChiefExecutive, which has been approved by the Board.
Role of the Chairman Role of the Chief Executive Role of non-executive Directors nn Leads the Board in setting its agenda, nn Direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day nn Scrutinise the performance of agreeing strategy, monitoring financial basis and is accountable to the Board for management in meeting agreed objectives andoperational performance, and the financial and operational performance and monitor thereporting of performance.
establishing the Groups risk appetite.
nn Seek assurance on the integrity of the nn Responsible for organising the business nn Leads the Executive Committee to develop financial information and that financial ofthe Board, ensuring its effectiveness, and implement the Groups strategy and controls and systems of risk management and maintaining an effective system of manage risk and the internal control are robust anddefensible.
nn Determine appropriate levels of nn Ensures that non-executive Directors nn Reports to the Board on financial and remuneration for Executive Directorsand receive relevant and accurate information operational performance and progress have a prime role in appointing Directors to facilitate an open and effective indelivering the strategic objectives.
This includes ensuring that the nn Regularly engages with shareholders nn Constructively challenge and help develop non-executive Directors receive regular andother key stakeholders on the Groups proposals onstrategy: this occurs at reports on shareholders views on activities and progress.
meetings of the Board, and in particular at the Group.
the annual review meeting to discuss nn Responsible for the composition of the ongoing strategy, the most recent of which Board and facilitates the effective took place in December 2012. contribution of non-executive Directors and constructive relations between Executive and non-executive Directors.
Effectiveness During the year, the Board conducted its annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
Theprocess was led by the Chairman and externally facilitated byDrTracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited.
The results of the evaluation process were reported to, and discussed by, the Board.
The Board performance evaluation considered the overall functioning of the Board including how discussion on key topics could most effectively be encouraged and managed, the culture of the organisation, and how non-executive Directors could both further increase their knowledge of the Groups investments and engage further with the Groups investment business without impinging on areas delegated to management.
Recent enhancements to regular Board reports were agreed to have improved the Boards insight into day-to-day performance of portfolio companies, and it was decided allnon-executive Directors would attend each year a number of managements regular internal in-depth review discussions on individual portfolio companies.
Further opportunities were identified for non-executive Directors to engage with the teams which manage the Groups investments.
The Board evaluation process also included consideration of the size, balance and composition of the Board, including its diversity, including as to gender.
In his role as Senior Independent Director, Mr R H Meddings led areview by the Directors of the performance of the Chairman and subsequently reported back to the Board.
