58 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Corporate responsibility Community Bridges Ventures We focus our charitable activities on the disadvantaged, on young people and on education.
Charities are supported on the basis of their effectiveness and impact.
Our charitable giving for the year to 31 March 2013 totalled 198,000.
3i is proud to be a founding investor in Bridges Ventures, a privately Wematch employees fundraising and in the UK we promote the Give owned UK venture capital company with a social mission.
As You Earn scheme, administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
Bridges was founded in 2002 and has since made equity investments totalling over 77 million in 35 businesses employing 1,693 people, almost 240 of whom came out of unemployment.
In December 2011, 3i invested 5 million into Bridges Ventures Fund III bringing 3is total commitment to over 7 million.
The Passage, which is based very near to our London office, has Give As You Earn ahigh impact on the local community.
3i funds The Passages In the UK, we promote the Give As You Earn scheme, administered education, training and employment department, which provides bythe Charities Aid Foundation.
homeless and insecurely housed people with support to find a way Subject to an individual cap currently 400 per month and a monthly back into employment and explore training and educational options.
cap of 10,000 in aggregate, 3i currently matches amounts donated byUK staff under the Give As You Earn scheme.
Fundraising events Enterprise Education Trust was founded by 3i 35 years ago and 3i has a policy of matching the amount raised by UK staff through wehave supported the charity as it has grown and developed.
sponsorship by family and friends of their fundraising efforts for TheTrust focuses on improving the financial literacy of 16 to UKregistered charities.
19years olds, raising their aspirations and attainment levels, with aparticular focus on business, preparing them for further and higher education, training and employment, and promoting links External benchmarking between schools and businesses.
3i has been a member of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index DJSI since 2002 and has been reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project an independent not-for-profit organisation working to drive greenhouse gas emissions reduction and sustainable water use by business and cities for the last seven years.
Community Links is based in Newham, one of the most deprived boroughs in London.
Community Links provides early action work, which includes running youth clubs and safe play areas, through toproviding advice on debt, welfare benefits, form filling etc.
Italsocarries out specialist intervention work when people are experiencing severe problems such as exclusion from school andprolonged periods of unemployment.
Historic Royal Palaces is an independent charity that looks after the Tower of London, Hampton Court Palace, the Banqueting House, Kensington Palace and Kew Palace.
3i helps fund the Outreach and Community Involvement team, in Kensington Palace, which works with the local community to engage them in activities in and around the Palace.
Despite Kensington & Chelsea being one of the wealthiest boroughs in the UK, it also contains pockets of substantial deprivation.
The team engages with the local community in a number of ways, including illustrated talks, storytelling and practical workshops and works with a variety ofgroups, including elderly people, young people not in education, employment or training, children from disadvantaged backgrounds and the disabled.
It also provides the use of community rooms within the palace for local groups to develop their own activities.
