Business review 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 35 Business lines Infrastructure The portfolio in Europe continues to perform well, providing a solid platform forfuture development.
Cressida Hogg Managing Partner, Infrastructure Introduction Business model 3is Infrastructure business invests in core infrastructure companies The Infrastructure business line currently and social infrastructure projects in Europe, with a particular focus onthe UK and northern Europe, and manages the existing portfolios operates in Europe and India, investing inEurope and India.
The strategy is built around the following components: Thebusiness managed or advised assets nn investing in core and social infrastructure in the developed world of 1.6 billion at 31 March 2013, primarily and, in particular, in northern Europe: nn driving value and yield from its European investments by improving through 3i Infrastructure plc 3iN a listed their operational performance over time, working with portfolio companies to implement strategies that deliver value over the investment company, with net assets long term: of1.1 billion and a market capitalisation nn maximising value in the existing portfolio of road, power and port investments in India, working with the local promoters to maximise of1.2 billion at that date and the 3i India value in the realisation phase: and Infrastructure Fund the India Fund, nn generating fee income by raising third-party capital to grow assets under management in Europe.
3is infrastructure Mature infrastructure businesses tend to generate returns through investments were valued at 507 million income and an element of capital growth.
They typically have a strong at 31 March 2013 2012: 528 million.
market position underpinning revenues, a degree of inflation linkage, they are capital intensive and tend to have lower volatility across The Infrastructure business has a team of 18 investment economic cycles.
professionals based in London, Mumbai and Delhi and is invested Returns for 3i from the Infrastructure business line are generated in seven businesses in Europe and seven in India, mostly through from dividend income and capital growth from its holding in 3iN, the funds it manages or advises.
The India Fund reached the end capital returns from its investment in the India Fund and advisory, of its investment period in November 2012.
In light of the impact management and performance fees from managing and advising of volatile macroeconomic and market conditions on the Funds third-party capital.
performance, the Group does not, at present, intend to raise asuccessor fund in this market.
3is primary investing vehicle in Europe, 3iN, has permanent capital and can hold investments over the long term.
Its objective, updated 3is stated strategic intention is to increase third-party fee inMay 2013, is to generate a total return of 10% per annum, of which income through growth in assets under management.
Growth in 5.5% is through a distribution yield, by investing in core and social Infrastructure AUM will focus on Europe where we have a marketinfrastructure.
3iN has delivered an annualised asset IRR since IPO leading track record.
in2007 of 16% and an annual total return in the year to 31 March 2013 of 8.6%.
Core infrastructure businesses are dynamic enterprises which tend toown their own asset base, such as utilities, not concessions with afinite life.
An engaged asset management approach is therefore key to maximising value.
36 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business lines Infrastructure Social infrastructure investing, usually through public private The valuation of the Groups India investments, however, continued partnership PPP projects, typically involves investing in finite tobe affected by a number of macroeconomic and market factors, concessions where the investor receives a payment in return resulting in an unrealised value loss of 27 million, which more than formaking an asset or facility available over a period of time, such offset the gain generated by 3iN.
The Indian power investments, in asaschool or hospital.
This type of investment tends to have high particular, have experienced issues around fuel supply and costs and inflation correlation, stable revenues backed by governments their ability to pass increased fuel costs to their customers.
The road orrelated entities and a strong yield when fully operational.
investments faced challenges inproject execution due to delays relating to land acquisitions and environmental clearances.
In addition to value growth, 3iN paid dividends of 18 million in the Performance for the year year, which makes up the portfolio income balance 2012: 18 million.
Table 13: Returns from Infrastructure Fees receivable totalled 21 million 2012: 25 million.
The year-onyear decline is due to 3iN paying a lower advisory fee of 1.25% for 2013 2012 investments held for more than five years compared to 1.5% for For the year to 31 March m m investments under five years old.
The lower advisory fee rate was Realised profits over value on the disposal applicable to 40% of 3iNs portfolio during the year.
In addition, having ofinvestments reached the end of its investment period, the India Fund now charges Unrealised losses on the revaluation fees based on the remaining cost of the investments, rather than ofinvestments 2 7 committed capital.
Portfolio income 18 18 In the year to 31 March 2013, the Group also received a performance fee of 1.4 million from 3iN, as its total return exceeded the Gross portfolio return 16 11 8%performance hurdle, which it recognises as carried interest Gross portfolio return % 3.0% 2.4% receivable.
This was offset by performance payments to the team.
Fees receivable from external funds 21 25 Net carried interest 1 6 Assets under management The Infrastructure business line had assets under management Operating expenses 24 17 of1.6 billion at 31 March 2013 2012: 1.7 billion.
Net portfolio return 12 13 The India Fund reached the end of its investment period in November Net portfolio return % 2.3% 2.8% 2012 and consequently its contribution to total AUM is now based onthe remaining cost of its investments, rather than on committed The Infrastructure business line generated a gross portfolio return capital.
This change in methodology accounts for the year-on-year of16 million in the year to 31 March 2013 2012: 11 million.
3iN is a permanent capital vehicle and its driven principally by portfolio income of 18 million 2012: 18 million, contributionto AUM is calculated on the basis of its net asset which was partially offset by an unrealised value loss of 2 million value, which increased by 3% in the year, net of dividend receipts.
The value of the Groups 34% holding in 3iN increased by 7.1% in the year to 31 March 2013, generating an unrealised value gain for the Group of 24 million for the year.
This increase was underpinned bythe strong performance of 3iNs European portfolio, which also continued to generate good levels of income.
In particular, 3iNs holdings in AWG and Oystercatcher saw good value increases.
Thesewere supported, in the case of AWG, by the business continued good operational performance and by favourable market and transaction multiples in the UK water sector and, in the case ofOystercatcher, by resilient operational performance and the refinancing of the acquisition debt facility.
Table 14: Assets under management Remaining 3i Gross money 1 Original Original 3i commitment % invested at multiple at Close date fundsize commitment at March 2013 March 2013 March 2013 AUM Infrastructure 2 3i India Infrastructure Fund March 2008 US$1,195m US$250m US$38m 73% 0.8x US$689m 3 4 3i Infrastructure plc March 2007 1,072m 366m n a n a 1,072m Other various various various n a n a 103m Total Infrastructure AUM 1,579m 1 Gross money multiple is the cash returned to the Fund plus value as at 31 March 2013, as a multiple of cash invested.
2 Adjusted to reflect 3i Infrastructure plcs US$250 million share of the Fund.
3 Based on latest published NAV ex-dividend.
4 3i Groups proportion of latest published NAV.
Business review 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 37 Elenia A strong business with An efficient use of our balance sheet 3i sold its holding in Elenia to a Elenia was acquired from Vattenfall AB in  third-party pension fund investor January 2012 by a consortium comprising: Elenia owns the second-largest electricity inJuly 2012, for a small profit over distribution business in Finland, serving nn 3iN 39% share and 3i 6% share : carrying value.
OurInfrastructure around 410,000 customers and with nn GS Infrastructure Partners 45% team retains responsibility for ac.
This business is share : and managing that holding alongside regulated on a four-year cycle, delivering nn Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance aset return on its regulated asset base.
the 39% holding in Elenia owned by Company 10% share.
Italso owns and operates 16 local district 3iN and generates fees from this.
Using its own permanent capital, 3i invested heating networks, each with strong market alongside 3iN to facilitate its investment and The investment exemplifies the shares in their local area.
District heating, deliver 3is strategy to grow its assets under which involves the pumping of hot water smart use of our permanent capital, management.
3iNs own investment directly into homes and businesses from our ability to raise third-party AUM concentration limits prevented it from taking central hubs, isnot regulated in Finland.
against an existing investment, as a larger stake, to match that of the other The electricity distribution business well as our ability to leverage our senior member of the consortium, operates in a stable and transparent international network to execute GSInfrastructure Partners.
In July 2012, 3i sold its 6% holding in Elenia period began in January 2012, providing toa third-party pension fund investor for clarity over the medium term.
com 30million, generating a 1 million profit framework encourages investment, over the carrying value.
This 6% stake providing opportunities for value-accretive isheldby this third party through growth, as well as network development anintermediary limited partnership, and innovation.
3iNetworks Finland LP, managed separately Finland is among the largest per capita by 3is Infrastructure team for an ongoing electricity consumers in Europe, with management fee.
Thisisa great example demand expected to grow steadily.
The of3i raising third-party assets under market is fragmented and Elenia could management against existing investments.
leverage its operational efficiencies and technical superiority to act as a consolidator Leveraging our network in its market.
The first small bolt-on While our Infrastructure team does not have acquisition was completed in August 2012. anyone on the ground in the Nordic region, Elenia generates high EBITDA margins, itwas able to leverage the resources of 3is supporting a strong yield over the long term.
Private Equity team in Stockholm to execute Returns from the electricity distribution the transaction.
The Stockholm team provided: business are linked to inflation and the nn its knowledge of the local market and the heating business has been able to increase help of native Finnish and Swedish speakers: its charges at least in line with inflation.
nn access to the best local corporate finance and legal advisers: and nn access to local banks, to put together afinancing package.
38 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business lines Infrastructure Chart 10: 3i Group plc Infrastructure business line Priorities for the year ahead 1 portfolio by region as at 31 March 2013 Delivering on the Groups key strategic objective of increasing third-party AUM will be a key priority for the year.
We will aim UK toachieve this by making new investments through 3iN, but will Continental Europe alsoconsider inorganic opportunities.
Asia In Europe, we will maintain our rigorous investment approach, focusing our activity in core and social infrastructure in the 32% 7 5 40% UK and northern Europe, building on our market-leading track record of returns.
This will be key to positioning 3iN for future capital raisings.
At present we do not intend to raise a successor fund in India.
Ourteam in India is therefore incentivised to manage the portfolio tomaximise value in the realisation phase.
3 28% Portfolio 3is investment exposure to infrastructure assets is primarily through Chart 11: 3i Group plc Infrastructure business line continental its shareholding in 3iN and its commitment to the India Fund.
3i owns 1 European and UK portfolio by sector as at 31 March 2013 34% of the equity of 3iN, which is a listed investment company with anindependent board of directors, and is exposed not only to the operational and financial performance of the underlying investments, Social infrastructure 11% but also to the fluctuations in 3iNs share price.
The direct exposure Transportation 3 tothe underlying investments is shown in the charts that follow.
Utilities The underlying infrastructure portfolio is weighted to the UK and Europe, with 68% of the underlying portfolio value in those regions.
54% 3 The exposure to Asia reduced in the period to 31 March 2013 as a result of the challenges faced by the Indian portfolio, primarily driven 2 35% by volatile macroeconomic and market conditions in India.
The three largest underlying investments are AWG, an English water supply andwastewater company, Elenia, a Finnish electricity distribution business, and Eversholt, a leading UK rail rolling stock company.
Chart 12: 3i Group plc Infrastructure business line India 1 portfolio by sector as at 31 March 2013 Transportation Utilities 38% 3 4 62% 1 The underlying portfolio exposure is calculated by allocating 3iNs 31March2013 value across its portfolio of investments in addition to 3iGroup investments in India and directly held in Europe.
Note: The number of portfolio companies is shown inside the segments of the above pie charts.
