Governance 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 59 Governance The Board has been very focused on strategyand delivering clear and measurable improvement in shareholder returns.
Sir Adrian Montague Chairman Appointment of the Chief Executive This section of the report describes how During the last year, akey role of the Board was the appointment of a 3i is governed and managed.
It explains new Chief Executive of3i.
Following the announcement in March 2012 of Michael Queens intention to resign as Chief Executive, the Board how the Board is organised and operates, consulted with shareholders regarding the process to select Michaels including the roles and composition of successor.
The Nominations Committee and the Board followed arigorous process that considered a strong field of both external each of its Committees, and provides andinternal candidates.
This culminated in the appointment on details on our Board and Executive 17May2012 of Simon Borrows as 3is new Chief Executive with astrategic mandate from the Board to pursue a clear and concrete Committee members.
It also explains setof measures to maximise shareholder value over the longer term.
the division of responsibilities between The key areas of immediate focus for the strategic review of the the Directors, including between the business were as follows: Chairman and Chief Executive.
This nn determining the best shape and investment strategy for the business going forward: section also includes the Directors nn improving the consistency and discipline of the Groups asset remuneration report.
management approach and ensuring that the Groups investment capabilities were of a high quality: and Introduction nn ensuring that the operating cost base and liquidity costs were consistent with the Groups investment and asset management Good corporate governance is fundamental to 3i and its activities.
strategy and with the prudent maintenance of the balance sheet.
Governance and oversight of the Groups business model and strategy are critical to the delivery of value to the Groups stakeholders.
This is On 29 June 2012, following the strategic review, the future strategy for more important than ever given the current challenging and uncertain 3i was announced.
The Board continues to meet regularly to review, economic environment that the Group faces and the changing discuss and debate the Groups strategic objectives and its progress regulatory landscape across our sector.
As part of this, in December 2012, the Board, together with members of the Executive Committee, met for a full day The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management to review and discuss progress against the Groups strategy.
and oversight of the Group and for its long-term success.
In particular, the Board is responsible for agreeing the Groups strategy, monitoring financial performance, setting and monitoring the Groups risk appetite and maintaining an effective system ofinternal controls.
It is the Boards responsibility to ensure that the Group has a clear strategy and that the necessary people, resources and structures areinplace to support the delivery of this strategy.
