56 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Corporate responsibility Our approach and values Our people A spirit of co-operation is encouraged to ensure the highest For 3i, corporate responsibility is about standardsof integrity and professionalism.
Fair and open communication is ahigh priority.
being a responsible investor, as well 3i has comprehensive global and regional policies to help ensure asaresponsible company.
We take thatemployees treat their colleagues and others with courtesy responsibility for our actions, carefully andrespect.
consider how others will be affected by Training and development our choices and ensure that our values We encourage the continuous development of our staff, with the and ethics are integrated into our formal objective of maximising both the overall performance of the business and their career potential.
We aim to ensure that our working business policies, practices and plans.
environments are attractive and stimulating places to work.
Our approach to corporate responsibility is underpinned by our values of ambition, courage, responsibility, collaboration and integrity, which Compliance training together commit us to doing the right thing in the right way.
It is a legal and regulatory requirement that all executives involved inmaking or managing investment transactions receive anti-money All employees have a responsibility to be aware of, and to abide by, laundering training and periodic refresher training.
3ispolicies and procedures, which have been developed to guide staff and regulate the conduct of the day-to-day operations of the business.
Our Compliance team has developed a series of e-based training These policies and procedures include 3is environmental, ethical and courses, including financial crime, anti-bribery, confidential social policies, which set out a number of common sense operating information and regulatory refresher induction training.
It is principles to guide staff and to underpin 3is values and its reputation mandatory for all staff to complete and pass these courses.
for acting with integrity, ethically and within the law.
These policies are available to all employees through 3is portal, a web-based knowledge Health and safety system.
Employees are encouraged to make suggestions to improve Promotion of health and safety at work is an essential responsibility our policies and procedures.
These recommendations are formally ofmanagers and staff at all levels, as is working safely.
reviewed and updated, where appropriate, on an annual basis.
At 3i, we ensure staff can go about their everyday business at 3is offices safely and without risks to their health.
We have a good record Organisation and governance and our high standards of health and safety apply to all our employees, visitors, clients and contractors.
3i has a policy of seeking to comply with established best practice inthe field of corporate governance.
The Board has adopted and We have redesigned our workstation training and assessment promotes corporate values and Group standards, which set out the software, making it more interactive and relevant to employees.
behaviour expected of employees in their dealings with shareholders, Allnew employees are asked to complete the training and customers, colleagues, suppliers and others who engage with 3i.
We ensure we have competent health and safety advice, and regularly Brand and Values committee monitor how well we are performing.
The Boards Brand and Values Committee oversees the Groups brand, For further details of our Health and Safety policy, please visit the corporate values, reputation, ethical approach and behaviours, CRsection of our website at www.
com  togetherwith its approach to corporate responsibility, and considers and provides recommendations and advice to the Board on broad strategy, positioning and standards concerning the Companys values and reputation.
The Brand and Values Committee comprises Sir Adrian Montague Chairman, Simon Borrows Chief Executive and Kevin Dunn GeneralCounsel and Company Secretary, together with two ormorenon-executive Directors determined by the Board from timetotime.
Relevant other members of the Executive Committee arealsoinvited to attend meetings, as required.
