Financials and otherinformation Investment policy The Company aims to build a diversied portfolio of equity investments For most investments, the Company seeks to obtain representation on in entities owning infrastructure businesses and assets.
The Company the board of directors of the investee company or equivalent governing seeks investment opportunities globally, but with a focus on Europe, body and in cases where it acquires a majority equity interest in North America and Asia.
The Companys equity investments will often abusiness, that interest may also be a controlling interest.
comprise share capital and related shareholder loans or other No investment made by the Company will represent more than 20% financial instruments that arenot shares but that, in combination with of the Companys gross assets, including cash holdings, at the time shares, are similar in substance.
The Company may also invest in of the making of the investment.
It is expected that most individual junior or mezzanine debtin infrastructure businesses or assets.
In some cases, the total amount Most of the Companys investments are in unquoted companies.
required for an individual transaction may exceed the maximum However, the Company may also invest in entities owning amount that the Company is permitted to commit to a single infrastructure businesses and assets whose shares or other investment.
In such circumstances, the Company may consider instruments are listed on any stock exchange, irrespective of whether entering into co-investment arrangements with 3i Group or other they cease to be listed after completion of the investment, if the investors who may also be significant shareholders, pursuant to which Directors judge that such an investment is consistent with the 3i Group and its subsidiaries or such other investors may co-invest on Companys investment objectives.
The Company will, in any case, the same financial and economic terms as the Company.
The suitability investno more than 15% of its total gross assets in other investment of any such co-investment arrangements will be assessed on a companies or investment trusts which are listed on the Official List.
 basis and would be subject to Board approval.
Depending on the size of the relevant investment and the The Company may also consider investing in other fund structures identity of the relevant co-investor, such a co-investment arrangement in the event that it considers, on receipt of advice from the Investment may be subject to the related party transaction provisions contained in Adviser, that that is the most appropriate and effective means of the Listing Rules and may therefore require shareholder consent.
investing, which may be advised or managed either by the Investment Adviser or a third party.
If the Company invests in another fund advised The Companys Articles require its outstanding borrowings, including or managed by 3i Group, the relevant proportion of any advisory or any financial guarantees to support subsequent obligations, to be management fees payable by the investee fund to 3i plc will be limited to 50% of the gross assets of the Group valuing investments deducted from the annual advisory fee payable under the Investment onthe basis included in the Groups accounts.
Advisory Agreement and the relevant proportion of any performance In accordance with Listing Rules requirements, the Company will only fee will be deducted from the annual performance fee, if payable, under make a material change to its investment policy with the approval the Investment Advisory Agreement.
For the avoidance of doubt, there ofshareholders.
will be no similar set-off arrangement where any such fund is advised or managed by a third party.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 83
