significant accounting policies 3i Infrastructure plc the Company is a company incorporated in Areas where estimates are significant to the consolidated financial Jersey, Channel Islands.
The consolidated financial statements for statements include: theyear to 31 March 2013 comprise the financial statements of the i Valuation of the investment portfolio The majority of assets in the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
investment portfolio are valued on a discounted cash ow basis which The Companies Jersey Law 1991 does not require the directors of a requires assumptions to be made regarding future cash ows and the company to present separate financial statements where consolidated discount rate to be applied to these cash ows.
Refer to Note 8 and financial statements are presented and therefore the financial results Note10 for further details of the sensitivity of the carrying value of and position of the Company are not presented alongside the these investments to the assumptions that have been made.
consolidated financial statements of the Group.
ii Assessment for impairment The Group must make certain The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors estimates regarding the recoverability of loans and receivables when on8 May 2013. assessing whether these financial assets meet the criteria for impairment against the current carrying value.
Refer to Note 2 and Statement of compliance Note8 for further details of assessments made during the year.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, International Accounting Standards issued but not yet effective Standards and their interpretations as issued by the International As at 31 March 2013, the following new or amended standards had Accounting Standards Board.
been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
These financial statements have also been prepared in accordance In 2009, the IASB issued IFRS 9, Financial Instruments Classication withand in compliance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. and Measurement, with an expanded and amended version covering additional requirements for financial liabilities issued during 2010.
Basis of preparation The standard is effective prospectively for accounting periods The financial statements of the Group are presented in sterling, the commencing 1 January 2015 or later and is therefore not applicable functional currency of the Company and the Group, rounded to the for the current accounting period.
On adoption, IFRS 9 will require the nearest hundred thousand pounds 0.1 million except where Group to review the classication of certain financial instruments while otherwise indicated.
allowing the Group to retain the fair value measurement necessary.
The Group is in the process of assessing the full impact of these The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requirements.
requires the Board to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets During 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated Statements, IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements, IFRS 12, and Disclosure assumptions are based on experience and other factors that are ofInterests in Other Entities, IFRS 13, and Fair Value Measurement.
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of Each of these standards is applicable for periods commencing on or whichform the basis of determining the carrying values of assets after 1 January 2013. andliabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
On adoption, of IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12, the Group will be required Actualresults may differ from these estimates.
to review the entities that it classies as subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, and the related disclosures required in respect of each of Key estimates and judgements these types of investments.
The Directors of the Company are currently The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS assessing the changes required to the presentation of the Groups financial statements and disclosures.
requires the Directors to exercise judgement in the process of applying the accounting policies dened below.
The following policies are areas IFRS 1 Amendment Government Loans effective for accounting where a higher degree of judgement has been applied in the periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013. preparation of the financial statements.
IFRS 7 Amendment Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and i Basis of consolidation The Group holds significant stakes in the Liabilities effective for accounting periods commencing on or after majority of its investee companies.
The Group must exercise judgement 1 January 2013. in the level of control of the underlying investee company that is obtained and consider the need to classify certain investee companies IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive as associates, joint ventures or subsidiary undertakings.
Income effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2012. ii Functional currency The Group has certain subsidiaries that conduct the majority of their business operations in currencies other IAS 28 Amendment Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures than sterling.
Judgement has been exercised in determining the effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2014. appropriate functional currency of these subsidiary undertakings.
IAS 32 Amendment Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial The adoption of certain accounting policies by the Group also requires Liabilities effective for accounting periods commencing on or after the use of certain critical accounting estimates in determining the 1 January 2014. information to be disclosed in the financial statements.
The following amendments to the standards below are not expected to have a significant impact on the Group once they become effective: IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2013 and IAS 28, Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2012.
IAS 19 Amendment Employee Benets effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 July 2013.
66 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Financials and otherinformation v Non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests reect the Interpretations issued but not yet effective proportion of the capital of subsidiary undertakings of the Group that The following new and amended interpretation has been issued isnot held by entities within the Group.
The proportion of the net byInternational Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee.
The assetsand profit of the Group that is attributable to non-controlling following interpretation is not expected to have a significant impact interests isshown as a separate component within the statement of onthe Group.
comprehensive income and the balance sheet.
Movements in the net assets attributable to non-controlling interests during the year arising IFRIC interpretation 20, Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of from investment activity, distributions payable to non-controlling aSurface Mine, was issued in 2011.
It is applicable prospectively for interests or movements in the proportion of capital held by accounting periods commencing 1 January 2013 or later, and is non-controlling interests are shown directly in equity through the therefore not applicable for the current accounting period.
statement of changes in equity.
A Basis of consolidation B Exchange differences i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in currencies different Control exists when the Company has the power, directly or indirectly, from the functional currency of the subsidiary of the Group entering into togovern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain the transaction are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of benefit from its activities.
The financial results of subsidiaries are transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that different to the functional currency of each Group entity at the financial control commences until the date that control ceases.
reporting date are translated to the functional currency at the exchange ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on hassignicant inuence, but not control, over the financial and translation to the functional currency are recognised in the statement operating policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of are carried in the balance sheet at fair value even though the Group historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange may have significant inuence over those companies.
This treatment rate at the date of the transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities ispermitted by IAS 28, Investment in Associates, which allows denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are investments held by venture capital organisations to be excluded translated to the functional currency using exchange rates ruling at the fromits scope where those investments are designated, upon initial date the fair value was determined.
recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in ii Financial statements of non-sterling operations The assets and accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in the liabilities of operations whose functional currency is not sterling are statement of comprehensive income in the year.
translated to sterling at exchange rates ruling at the financial reporting The Group has no interests in associates outside of the Groups date.
The revenues and expenses of these operations are translated to investment portfolio.
sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on retranslation are iii Joint ventures Interests in joint ventures that are held as part of recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to a separate the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the balance sheet at fair component of equity, the translation reserve, and are released upon value.
This treatment is permitted by IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures, disposal of the non-sterling operation.
which allows interests held by venture capital organisations to be excluded from its scope where those investments are designated, upon C Investment portfolio initial recognition, as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in i Recognition and measurement Investments are recognised and the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
derecognised on a date where the purchase or sale of an investment isunder a contract whose terms require the delivery or settlement The Group has no interests in joint ventures outside of the Groups ofthe investment.
The Group manages its investments with a view to investment portfolio.
proting from the receipt of investment income and obtaining capital iv Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances, appreciation from changes in the fair value of equity investments.
and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising Therefore, all quoted investments and unquoted equity investments are from intragroup transactions, are eliminated in preparing the designated as at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition consolidated financial statements.
and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
Loan investments are classied as loans and receivables and subsequently carried in the balance sheet at amortised cost less impairment.
All investments are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration given and held at this value until it is appropriate to measure fair value on a different basis, applying the Groups valuation policy.
Acquisition costs are attributed to equity investments and recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 67 significant accounting policies ii Income D Fees a Realised gains or losses over value on the disposal of investments is i Fees Fees payable represent fees incurred in the process of the difference between the fair value of the consideration receivable on acquiring an investment and are measured on the accruals basis.
disposal less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity and the repayment of loans and receivables, and its fair value at the start of ii Advisory fee An annual advisory fee is payable to 3i plc based the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates onthe Gross Investment Value of the Company.
The fee is payable in force at the date of disposal: and are recognised in the statement of quarterly in advance and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
explanations are provided in Note 19. b Unrealised gains or losses on the revaluation of investments is the iii Performance fee 3i plc is entitled to a performance fee based on movement in the fair value of investments between the start and end of the Adjusted Total Return per ordinary share generated in the period in the accounting period, or the investment acquisition date and the end of excess of a performance hurdle.
The fee is payable annually in arrears the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further explanations are in force at the end of the period: and are recognised in the statement of provided in Note 19. comprehensive income.
iv Finance costs Finance costs associated with loans and c Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to borrowings are recognised on an accruals basis using the effective the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent interest method.
that it is probable that there will be an economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
The following specic recognition criteria E Treasury assets and liabilities must be met before the income is recognised: Short-term treasury assets and shortand long-term treasury Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the statement liabilities are used to manage cash ows and the overall costs of ofcomprehensive income when the shareholders rights to receive borrowing.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the payment have been established with the exception of dividends paid balancesheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party to out of pre-acquisition reserves that are recognised by adjusting the thecontractual provisions of the instrument.
fair value of the equity investment upon acquisition: i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the Income from loans and receivables and debt held at fair value through balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term profit or loss is recognised as it accrues by reference to the principal deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate purposes of the cash ow statement, cash and cash equivalents that exactly discounts the estimated future cash ows through the comprise cash and short-term deposits as dened above.
Interest expected life of the financial asset to the assets carrying value or receivable on cash and cash equivalents is recognised on an principal amount: accrualsbasis.
Fees receivable represent amounts earned on completion of ii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings Loans and borrowings are underlying investment transactions and are recognised on an initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of accruals basis once entitlement to the revenue has been established.
issue costs associated with the borrowings.
These issue costs are capitalised and disclosed within Trade and other receivables and iii Impairment of assets held as loans and receivables All financial amortised over the life of the loan.
After initial recognition, loans and assets held as loans and receivables are assessed for impairment on borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the both an individual and a collective basis.
The amount of the impairment effective interest method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the is measured as the difference between the carrying value of the asset estimated future cash ows through the expected life of the liabilities.
and the net present value of the expected future cash ows expected to Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and arise from each asset, based on the effective interest rate of each asset.
any discount or premium on settlement.
The amount of the resultant loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
If the impairment analysis demonstrates that iii Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments the conditions giving rise to a previously recognised impairment are no are used to manage the risk associated with foreign currency longer prevalent, a reversal of the impairment loss is recognised in the uctuations of portfolio income, the valuation of the investment statement of comprehensive income.
portfolio and changes in interest rates on borrowings.
This is achieved by the use of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate swaps.
Such instruments are used for the sole purpose of efficient portfolio management.
All derivative financial instruments are held atfair value through profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value on the contract date and subsequently re-measured to the fair value at each reporting date.
All changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive income.
Thematurity prole of derivative contracts is measured relative to the financial contract settlement date of each contract and the derivative contracts are disclosed in the financial statements as either current ornon-current accordingly.
Realised gains over fair value on the settlement of derivative financial instruments are the difference between the fair value of the consideration receivable on disposal andthe fair value at the start of the accounting period, converted intosterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal: and are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
68 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Financials and otherinformation F Other assets I Income taxes Assets, other than those specically accounted for under a separate Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently payable, policy, are stated at their consideration receivable less impairment withholding taxes suffered and deferred tax.
Tax is charged or credited losses.
The carrying value of such assets or liabilities is considered in the statement of comprehensive income except to the extent that it approximate to their fair value.
All assets are reviewed at each balance relates to an amount recognised in the statement of changes in equity sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
when it is recognised directly in this statement.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the period.
estimated based on expected discounted future cash ows.
Any change This may differ from the profit included in the consolidated statement of in levels of impairment is recognised directly in the statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense comprehensive income.
An impairment loss is reversed at subsequent that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes financial reporting dates to the extent that the assets carrying amount items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for does not exceed its carrying value, had no impairment been recognised.
current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws for each relevant tax jurisdiction in which the subsidiaries of the Group operate that have G Other liabilities been enacted or substantively enacted by the financial reporting date.
Liabilities, other than those specically accounted for under a separate Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on policy, are stated based on the amounts which are considered to be differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in payable in respect of goods or services received up to the financial the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the reporting date.
The carrying value of other liabilities is considered to computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance beapproximate to their fair value.
H Equity and reserves i Share capital Share capital issued by the Company including the conversion of warrants is recognised at the fair value of proceeds received and is credited to the stated capital account.
Direct issue costs net of tax are deducted from the fair value of the proceeds received.
ii Equity and reserves The stated capital account of the Company represents the cumulative proceeds recognised from share issues or new equity issued on the conversion of warrants made by the Company net of issue costs and reduced by any amount that has been transferred to distributable reserves in previous years.
Share capital is treated as an equity instrument, on the basis that no contractual obligation exists for the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets to the holder of the instrument.
The retained reserve represents the distributable reserves of the Company.
The retained reserve incorporates the cumulative retained profits of the Company after the payment of dividends plus any amount that has been transferred from the stated capital account of the Company.
iii Dividends payable Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from retained reserves in the period in which the Companys obligation to make the dividend payment arises.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013 69
