Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value the investment portfolio DCF of 3i Infrastructure and its subsidiaries the Group is set out below in DCF is the primary basis for valuation.
In using the DCF basis, fair value order to provide more detailed information than is included within the is estimated by deriving the present value of the investment using accounting policies and the Investment Advisers review for the reasonable assumptions and estimation of expected future cash ows valuation of the portfolio.
The methodology complies in all material and the terminal value and date, and the appropriate risk-adjusted aspects with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital discount rate that quanties the risk inherent to the investment.
valuation guidelines which are endorsed by the British Private Equity Theterminal value attributes a residual value to the investee company and Venture Capital Association and the European Private Equity and at the end of the projected discrete cash ow period.
The discount Venture Capital Association.
ratewill be estimated for each investment derived from the market risk-free rate, a risk-adjusted premium and information specic to Basis of valuation theinvestment or market sector.
Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of fair value at the Proportionate share of net assets reporting date.
Fair value represents the amount for which an asset could be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties in an Where the Group has made investments into other infrastructure arms length transaction.
funds, the value of the investment will be derived from the Groups share of net assets of the fund based on the most recent reliable General financial information available from the fund.
Where the underlying investments within a fund are valued on a DCF basis, the discount In estimating fair value, the Directors seek to use a methodology that rateapplied may be adjusted by the Company to reect its assessment isappropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the of the most appropriate discount rate for the nature of assets held in investment and its materiality in the context of the overall portfolio.
Themethodology that is the most appropriate may consequently include adjustments based on informed and experience-based Sales basis judgements, and will also consider the nature of the industry and The expected sale proceeds will be used to assign a fair value to market practice.
Methodologies are applied consistently from period to anasset in cases where offers have been received as part of an period except where a change would result in a better estimation of fair investment sales process.
Given the uncertainties inherent in estimating fair value, a degree of caution is applied in exercising judgements and making necessary This may either support the value derived from another methodology estimates.
or may be used as the primary valuation basis.
A marketability discount is applied to the expected sale proceeds to derive the valuation where Quoted investments appropriate.
Quoted equity investments are valued at the closing bid price at the Cost less fair value adjustment reporting date.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, no discount is applied for liquidity of the stock or any Any investment in a company that has failed or, in the view of the Board, dealing restrictions.
is expected to fail within the next 12 months, has the equity shares valued at nil and the xed income shares and loan instruments valued Quoted debt investments will be valued using quoted prices provided at the lower of cost and net recoverable amount.
by third-party broker information where reliable or will be held at cost less fair value adjustments.
Unquoted investments Unquoted investments are valued using one of the following methodologies: Discounted Cash Flow DCF Proportionate share of net assets Sales basis Cost less any fair value adjustments required 84 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2013
