Information for shareholders Warning to shareholders Financial calendar boiler room scams Ex-dividend date for final dividend 19 June 2013 Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue Record date 21 June 2013 and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, Annual General Meeting 9 July 2013 or an inated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
Final dividend expected to be paid 12 July 2013 While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this Half-yearly results November 2013 way usually lose their money.
Most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an Registrars average of 20,000, with around 200 million lost in the UK each year.
For shareholder services, including notifying changes of address, the registrar details are as follows: Protect yourself If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, Capita Registrars Jersey Limited apremium price for shares you own, or free company or research 12 Castle Street reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: St. Helier Jersey JE2 3RT 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
Check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk register e-mail: registrars@capita.
je to ensure that they are authorised.
Use the details on the Financial Services Register to contact the rm.
Call the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Helpline on Website 0800 111 6768 if there are no contact details on the Register or you For full up-to-date investor relations information including the latest are told they are out of date.
share price, recent reports, results presentations and financial news, 5.
Search the Financial Conduct Authoritys list of unauthorised rms please visit our investor relations website www.
com and individuals to avoid doing business with.
If you would prefer to receive shareholder communications 6.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.
If you use electronically, including your annual reports and notices of meetings, an unauthorised rm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you please go to www.
com e-comms for details of how will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or toregister.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
Frequently used registrars forms may be found on our website at Report a scam www.
com e-comms If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the Financial 3i Infrastructure plc Conduct Authority using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk, where you can nd out about the latest investment Registered office: scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
Lime Grove House Green Street St. Helier Jersey JE1 2ST Channel Islands Tel: 44 0 1534 711 444 Fax: 44 0 1534 609 333 Registered in Jersey No.
95682 3i Infrastructure plc is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar www.
com Printed by Pureprint Group who are a CarbonNeutral printer certied to ISO 14001 environmental management systemand registered to EMAS the EcoManagement AuditScheme.
Printed using vegetableoil based inks.
The report is printed on Amadeus 50% Silk which is FSCcertied and contains 50% recycled waste and 50%virgin bre.
FSC Forest Stewardship Council This ensures that there is an audited chain of custody from the tree in the well-managed forest through to the nished document in the printing factory.
ISO 14001 A pattern of control for an environmental management system against which an organisation can be accredited by a third party.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report online Lime Grove House To receive shareholder communications Green Street, St Helier, electronically in future, including your Jersey JE1 2ST annual and half-yearly reports and notices www.
com of meetings, please go to: M728013 www.
com e-comms for details of how to register
