Accounting policies Basis of preparation Standards not affecting the reported results The financial statements have been prepared and approved by nor the financial position the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting The following amended International Accounting Standard IAS Standards endorsed by the EU.
has been adopted in the current year.
Its adoption has not had any significant impact on amounts reported in these financial The financial statements have been prepared on the historical statements.
The amendment requires grouping of items presented cost basis, except that certain of the Groups financial instruments in other comprehensive income based on whether or not they will are stated at their fair values and the measurement of long-term be reclassified to profit or loss in future.
employee benefits at present value of the obligation less fair value of any assets held to settle the obligation.
The principal accounting Effective date policies, which have been consistently applied unless otherwise Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of 1 July 2012 stated, are set out below.
Items of Other In publishing these financial statements, the Company is taking Comprehensive advantage of the exemption provided by section 408 of the Income Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income New standards and interpretations not applied statement and related notes that form part of the approved financial statements.
The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, which are relevant to the Groups reporting Going concern but which have not yet been applied and have an effective date The directors have, at the time of approving the financial after the date of these financial statements: statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and Endorsed by the EU and available for early adoption: the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt Effective the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial date periods statements.
Further detail is included in the Directors report on commencing page 80. on or after 1 January 2013 Accounting estimates and judgements IFRS 10 May 2011 Consolidated 1 January 2013 Preparation of the financial statements necessitates the use financial statements of estimates, assumptions and judgements, which affect the IFRS 11 May 2011 Joint arrangements 1 January 2013 reported values of assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at IFRS 12 May 2011 Disclosure of Interest 1 January 2013 the balance sheet date as well as affecting the reported income in Other Entities and expenses for the year.
Although the estimates are based on managements knowledge and judgement of information IFRS 13 May 2011 Fair Value 1 January 2013 and financial data, the actual outcome may differ from these Measurement estimates.
The key assumptions which affect the results for IAS 19 June 2011 Employee Benefits 1 January 2013 the year and the balances as at the year end are specifically amended identified, where appropriate, in the following notes to the Amendments to Transition guidance 1 January 2013 Group financial statements: IFRS 10, 11 and 12 December 2011 a Impairment testing of goodwill and intangible assets note 12: Amendments to Offsetting financial 1 January 2013 IFRS 7 December assets and financial b Business combinations note 13: 2011 liabilities c Bonus and share-based payments note 22: and Amendments to IAS Offsetting financial 1 January 2014 32 December 2011 assets and financial d Provisions - note 27. liabilities Annual Improvements to 1 January 2013 Improvements 2011 IFRS 1, IAS 1, IAS 16, May 2012 IAS 32, IAS 34 Standards and interpretations not endorsed: IFRS 9 Financial 1 January 2015 October 2010 Instruments: Classification and Measurement 84 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements The adoption of the accounting standards endorsed but not Business combinations yet applied are not expected to have a material impact on the Purchases of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using Groups results but will result in additional disclosures.
The consideration for each acquisition IAS 19 Employee Benefits replaces interest costs and expected is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the acquisition return on plan assets with a net interest cost calculated by date of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit asset or instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the liability.
The adoption of this standard is not expected to acquiree.
Costs relating to acquisitions are recognised in the have a material impact on the results of the Group.
Where applicable, consideration for an acquisition includes IFRS 10 may require the consolidation of more funds which are any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration managed by the Group.
This will require the grossing up of the arrangement, measured at its fair value at acquisition date.
Groups assets and liabilities, however, it is not expected to Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the impact operating profit or profit before tax and it will not cost of acquisition where they qualify as measurement period impact net assets.
All other subsequent changes in the IFRS 12 is not expected to impact the Group results, but will fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or require increased disclosure where the Group has an interest liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRS.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial information contained within these Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups financial statements incorporates the results, cash flows and previously-held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries for the fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains period to 30 September 2013.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in profit by the Company and are included from the date that control or loss.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the commences until the date that control ceases.
Control exists acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss, where such the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3 from the Groups equity therein.
Those interests of non-controlling Revised 2008 are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition shareholders that are present ownership interests entitling their date, except that: holders to a proportionate share of net assets upon liquidation deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to may initially be measured at fair value or at the non-controlling employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in interests proportionate share of the fair value of the acquirees accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement is made on Benefits respectively: a case by case basis.
Other non-controlling interests are initially liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by measured at fair value.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying the Group of an acquirees share-based payment awards are amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments: and interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale results in the non-controlling interests having a negative balance.
and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses with that Standard.
between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
com 85 Accounting policies continued If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete Leases by the end of the reporting period in which the combination All Group leases are operating leases, being leases where the lessor occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts leased asset.
are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets Rental payments made under operating leases are charged to the or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained income statement on a straight line basis over the term of the about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date lease.
Lease incentives received by the Group are recognised as that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at a reduction in the rental expense, recognised on a straight line that date.
basis over the period to the first rent review.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition Rental income from sub-leases is recognised on a straight-line to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts basis over the term of the relevant sub-lease.
and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date, and is subject to a maximum of one year.
Pension costs Revenue The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is a Group personal pension scheme.
In addition, overseas subsidiaries make Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contributions to various trade and state defined contribution economic benefits will flow to the Group and such revenue schemes.
Contributions to these defined contribution pension can be reliably measured.
Revenue is recognised as services are schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement provided and includes management fees, transaction fees and as they become payable under the rules of the schemes.
The Group also operates a number of legacy defined benefit Commissions and similar expenses payable to intermediaries are pension schemes which arose on acquisitions, one of which recognised when services are provided.
is operated by the Company.
All schemes are closed to new The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number of membership and to future service accruals.
The Groups net clients where the actual performance of the clients assets exceeds obligation in respect of these schemes is calculated separately defined benchmarks by an agreed level of outperformance over for each scheme by estimating the amount of future benefit that a set time period.
Performance fees are recognised when the members have earned in return for their service in prior periods: quantum of the fee can be reliably estimated and it is probable that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and that the fee will be received.
the fair value of any scheme assets is deducted.
The benefits are discounted at a rate equal to the yield on high credit rated Finance revenue corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the Finance revenue comprises interest and dividends.
Interest income terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by is recognised using the effective interest rate method as it accrues.
a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
Dividend income is recognised when the Groups right to receive The surplus or deficit in respect of defined benefit schemes is payment is established which, in the case of listed securities, is the expressed as the excess or shortfall of the fair value of the assets of ex-dividend date.
the scheme compared to the present value of the scheme liabilities Finance costs and is recognised as an asset or liability of the Group or Company.
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings recognised Interest costs on the liability, expected return on plan assets and using the effective interest rate method.
They also include nonthe costs of curtailments and settlements are recognised utilisation fees charged on the undrawn portion of the revolving in the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group or Company, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
86 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method Other employee benefits and is calculated at the tax rates enacted or substantively enacted Share-based payments that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the The Group grants equity-settled and cash-settled for awards in liability settled.
Aberdeen funds share-based awards to certain employees.
The valuation approach, assumptions and schemes are disclosed in Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable note 22. temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured available against which deductible temporary differences can at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
be utilised, except: The fair value determined at the grant date of equity-settled in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the the service period to vesting, based on the Groups estimate of timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be equity instruments that will eventually vest.
At each balance controlled and it is probable that they will not reverse in sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity the foreseeable future: instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such recognition of goodwill: and that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from corresponding adjustment to equity reserves.
the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that: For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised is not a business combination: and for the goods or services acquired, measured initially at the fair value of the liability.
At each balance sheet date until the liability is at the time of the transaction, affects neither settled, and at the date of settlement, the fair value of the liability accounting profit nor loss.
is remeasured, with any changes in fair value recognised in profit or Property, plant & equipment loss for the year.
Property, plant & equipment is stated at cost less accumulated Employee Benefits Trust depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The Group has an Employee Benefits Trust EBT which owns shares in the Company for the purposes of administering the Expenditure on property, plant & equipment is capitalised on Groups deferred share scheme.
The EBT is consolidated into the initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised Group and Companys financial statements, with any shares held when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits by the EBT deducted from equity.
Any consideration received for attributable to the item and the cost of the item can be measured such shares is recognised within retained earnings.
All other expenditure is recognised as an expense in the is recognised in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue income statement as incurred.
or cancellation of equity shares.
Property, plant & equipment is depreciated so as to write off the cost of assets, on a straight line basis, over their estimated useful Taxation lives as follows: Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and Heritable property: 50 years: deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other Leasehold property: over the period of the lease: comprehensive income.
Property improvements: shorter of five years or the period Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable profit for of the lease: the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Computers, fixtures and fittings: three to ten years: and balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on Depreciation is recognised as an expense in the income statement.
differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding basis used for tax purposes.
com 87 Accounting policies continued The carrying value of these assets is reviewed at each reporting Software Purchased software assets have a finite life and are stated at date to consider whether there is any indication that the value of cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
any asset may be impaired: if any such indication exists and where Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable amount, the line basis over the useful economic life of the asset which, for asset is written down to its recoverable amount, being the greater software, is estimated at between three and five years.
Subsequent of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Any impairment expenditure on software is capitalised only when it increases the losses are recognised in the income statement.
future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which Intangible assets it relates.
Goodwill Impairment Goodwill, representing the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable assets, The Group performs annual impairment reviews in respect of liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, is capitalised in goodwill and intangible fixed assets with indefinite lives.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is Group carries out impairment reviews in respect of intangible stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
fixed assets with definite lives, property, plant & equipment and other assets, including fixed asset investments, whenever events or Management contracts and distribution agreements changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may Intangible assets, such as management contracts and distribution not be recoverable.
agreements acquired as part of a business combination, are capitalised where it is probable that future economic benefits An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement attributable to the assets will flow to the Group and the fair whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating value of the assets can be measured reliably.
unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
Management contracts and distribution agreements are recorded initially at fair value and then amortised, if appropriate, over their Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
The fair value at the date of acquisition is calculated respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has using discounted cash flow methodology and represents the been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable valuation of the net residual income stream arising from the amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the management contracts or distribution agreements in place at assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that the date of acquisition.
The contracts are included in the balance would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, sheet as an intangible asset.
if no impairment loss had been recognised.
The useful lives of management contracts in respect of certain Financial instruments open end funds, which have no limit of time or termination Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value plus, in provisions, are considered to be indefinite and are therefore not the case of investments not at fair value through profit or loss, subject to amortisation.
The indefinite nature of these contracts directly attributable transaction costs.
They are categorised as is re-assessed on an annual basis to ensure that the policy remains described below.
The Group tests for impairment of these assets annually, or more frequently if there is an indication that the The fair value of financial instruments that are actively traded on carrying amount may not be recoverable.
The recoverable organised financial markets is determined by reference to market amount is the greater of fair value less costs to sell and value in bid prices at the close of business on the balance sheet date.
Management contracts in respect of segregated mandates investments where there is no active market, the fair value is and certain open end funds are considered to have a finite life determined using valuation techniques.
These techniques include and are therefore amortised on a straight line basis over their recent arms length market transactions, reference to the current estimated average contract term of between two and ten years, market value of another financial instrument which is substantially with amortisation charged to the income statement.
The useful the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
lives of distribution agreements are determined by the expiry date of the agreement.
88 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial statements Financial investments at fair value through profit or loss include The Group has adopted trade date accounting.
Accordingly, a investments acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the financial investment is recognised on the date the Group commits short term or if so designated by management.
They are carried at to its purchase and derecognised on the date on which the Group fair value in the balance sheet and gains or losses are taken to the commits to its sale.
income statement in the period in which they arise.
The following Derivative financial instruments assets and liabilities are classified as financial instruments at fair In limited circumstances, the Group uses derivative financial value through profit or loss: instruments to hedge its risk associated with foreign exchange Current assets movements.
Fair value is determined by reference to market values Assets backing investment contract liabilities for similar instruments.
All changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are taken to profit or loss.
It is not the Stock of units and shares Groups policy to trade in derivative instruments.
Seed capital Cash and cash equivalents Other investments Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call deposits Current liabilities and investments in money market instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts that are Investment contract liabilities repayable on demand are included as a component of cash Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair value in and cash equivalents for the purposes of the statement of the balance sheet.
Movements in fair value are taken to the fair cash flows.
value reserve until derecognition of the asset, at which time the Investment contracts cumulative amount dealt with through this reserve is recognised in the income statement.
The Group sells unit linked life and pension contracts through its insurance subsidiary, Aberdeen Asset Management Life and Where there is objective evidence that an available for sale Pensions Limited L&P.
Management fees earned from these financial asset is impaired, the cumulative impairment loss contracts are accounted for as described in the accounting is reclassified from equity to profit and loss with subsequent policy for revenue.
movements recognised in profit and loss.
L&P is consolidated in the Group financial statements on a lineNon-current assets includes by-line basis.
Unit linked policyholder assets described as assets Other investments designated as available for sale backing investment contract liabilities held by L&P and related policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in Other investments held at amortised cost fair value taken to profit or loss.
Loans and receivables and other financial liabilities are recognised Amounts received from and paid to investors under these at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
contracts are treated as deposits received or paid and therefore Convertible bonds that can be converted to share capital at not recorded in the income statement.
Charges to investors due the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued under these contracts are recognised in the income statement.
At does not vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted for the balance sheet date the value of these contracts is stated at an as compound financial instruments with a liability and equity amount equal to the fair value of the net assets held to match the component.
Transaction costs that relate to the issue of a contractual obligations.
compound financial instrument are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to the allocation of proceeds.
The equity component of the convertible bonds is calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds over the present value of the future interest and principle payments, discounted at the market rate of interest applicable to similar liabilities that do not have a conversion option.
The interest expense recognised in the income statement is calculated using the effective interest rate method.
com 89 Accounting policies continued Investments in subsidiaries Foreign currencies In the Company balance sheet, investments in subsidiaries are The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, carried at cost less any provision for impairment.
the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items Equity instruments included in the financial statements of each entity are measured Perpetual subordinated capital securities in that functional currency.
The 7.0% perpetual cumulative capital notes and the 7.9% Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional perpetual subordinated capital securities are classified as an currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
element of equity as the securities are irredeemable, except at At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities the Companys option, and coupon payments are discretionary.
denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange Coupon payments, net of attributable tax, are recognised as rate ruling at the balance sheet date and any exchange differences distributions within equity.
arising are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets Dividends and liabilities measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised on the date translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate at of payment or, if subject to approval, the date approved the date of the transaction and so no exchange differences arise.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance Provisions sheet date.
A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has Where fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event in the income statement, the corresponding exchange movements and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be are also recognised in the income statement.
Where fair value required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in other are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a comprehensive income, the corresponding exchange movements pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time are also recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated to due to the passage of time is recognised as an interest expense.
sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
No provision is established where a reliable estimate of the The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated obligation cannot be made.
to sterling at rates approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.
On disposal of a foreign operation, all of the accumulated foreign exchange differences in respect of that operation are recycled to the profit and loss account.
90 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
