Where we operate We have the scale to provide global coverage of financial markets, yet we are flexible enough to focus on each and every portfolio decision.
We have teams of skilled investment professionals across a range of investment strategies including equities, fixed income, property and solutions to serve our institutional and retail clients.
Europe, Middle East and Africa Americas The UK accounts for 30% of our clients by AuM, some 59 billion.
Philadelphia is our hub for North America and includes fixed Our headquarters are in Aberdeen, where we locate many Group income, US equities and property teams.
Our New York office functions.
Our largest office is in London and it is the investment is growing, helped by the acquisition of Artio.
This grows our centre for GEM ex.
Asia, UK and European equities, fixed income US fixed income business and brings enhanced distribution and and fund of alternatives teams.
Edinburgh is the investment centre client penetration in the US market.
for our global equities team and the multi asset team.
We manage 23% of our AuM on behalf of clients throughout We have a significant presence across Continental Europe with the Americas and have developed a strong platform on which 14 regional offices in 13 countries.
Europe, excluding the UK, to service institutional and wholesale channels.
accounts for 27% of Group AuM.
Luxembourg is the domicile for The Toronto office services our burgeoning Canadian client base, the Aberdeen Global fund range which has AuM of 31.2 billion.
while So Paulo is a research office for our emerging market We opened our first Spanish office in Madrid, which builds on equity and debt teams.
Our Americas team also cover Latin Aberdeens work over the last decade marketing our investment American clients investing in our Luxembourg fund range.
The Middle East and Africa are important sources of institutional funds and we have a strong client base which we service from London.
Around 7% of our AuM is managed for institutional and sovereign wealth entities in those regions.
Asia Pacific Global brand recognition Singapore is the Asian headquarters of the Group and is home Our brand campaign has to most of our Asia fund managers covering the main asset been recognised globally with classes as well as substantial marketing, client servicing and awards for success in the UK administrative functions.
Highly Commended, Corporate Other full service offices are in Bangkok, Hong Kong, Kuala Engagement Awards and Digital Lumpur, Sydney and Tokyo.
Our Taipei and Kaohsiung sales Impact Awards 2013, Europe offices service the retail market in Taiwan.
Funds Europe magazine, Marketing Campaign of the Year 2013 and Clients in Asia account for around 13% of our AuM and our the US MFEA Star Awards 2013, investments in Asian equities, fixed income and property as well as advertising awards in are core competencies for the Group.
10 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview UK and European Offices Aberdeen Head office, Frankfurt, Geneva, Helsinki, Edinburgh, Jersey, London, Luxembourg, Madrid, Milan, Amsterdam, Brussels, Oslo, Paris, Stockholm Budapest, Copenhagen, and Zrich Europe, Middle East and Africa Net revenue 590.3m 2012: 489.6m Asia Pacific Net revenue Americas 392.8m Net revenue 2012: 316.5m 95.4m Offices 2012: 63.1m Bangkok, Hong Kong, Kaohsiung, Kuala Lumpur, Melbourne, Seoul, Offices Shanghai, Singapore, Sydney, New York, Philadelphia, Taipei and Tokyo So Paulo and Toronto aberdeen-asset.
com 11 Strategic report Our strategic priorities have not changed and we will continue to apply our focused, long-term investment process and aim to achieve further diversification of our AuM and revenue streams.
We focus our distribution efforts on markets with the largest asset pools, particularly the US and Europe.
By servicing our clients well, we believe we will deliver value for our shareholders in the future.
45.4% Operating margin has increased from 40.6% to 45.4%, reflecting strong revenue growth coupled with continuing cost discipline.
12 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report aberdeen-asset.
com 13 Overview of strategic report Aberdeen aims to build on its position as a highly regarded global asset management group founded on providing the highest levels of investment performance and client service.
High quality teams are at the heart of our investment process and operations.
Our aims We aim to optimise long-term returns for our shareholders through: 1.
Maintaining a complete focus on providing 3.
Seeking cost effective growth either organically the highest levels of investment performance or through selective acquisitions and an optimal and client service.
organisation structure for maximum efficiency.
Recruiting, developing and retaining talent and 4.
Maintaining a strong balance sheet through being well resourced at all staffing levels, with consistent cash generation and paying an robust succession plans in place.
Strategic highlights Title Comment Page no Growth There have continued to be strong flows into GEM and Asia Pacific equities Pages 25 and 31 products.
We slowed down the flows into GEM equities through an upfront charge and a capacity management programme.
This will reduce the rate of growth, but it is important to maintain the integrity of the investment process.
Beyond our core equities products, we have a number of other capabilities with strong track records that we believe meet client demand.
Our distribution focus is now on supporting these capabilities in the largest asset pools, particularly the US and Europe.
Emerging markets outlook Emerging markets suffered from fears of a Chinese slow down and then Pages 24 and 31 speculation that the US Federal Reserve would begin unwinding its Quantitative Easing programme.
Notwithstanding macro concerns, we believe that investors will refocus on corporate fundamentals, which remain attractive in the long run.
Artio and SVG acquisitions We completed the acquisition of Artio and took a 50.1% stake in Aberdeen SVG.
Pages 32 and 34 These are infill acquisitions that strengthen our offerings in global high yield and fund of private equity funds.
Capital Our regulatory capital position continues to strengthen and we now have Pages 40 and 41 significant capital without reliance on the FCA consolidation waiver.
The increased total dividend payout of 16.0p 39% demonstrates our commitment to returning cash to shareholders.
14 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Overview of strategic report Section Content Summary Business model This shows what we do and how we operate.
Diversified product range, geographic reach and client base.
Strategy This shows the progress against our four aims on the left We aim to grow our business beyond our and our outlook in these areas.
We are supporting growth plans through strategic acquisitions and our brand refresh.
Market review Background on key trends in the industry, with an Markets influenced by uncertainty over explanation of how they have impacted our progress and Quantitative Easing.
There are significant the effect that we anticipate they will have in the future.
regulatory changes in the next two years.
KPIs We look at our performance against the key indicators KPIs show consistent improvement in that we measure over time.
performance over the last five years.
Business review A more detailed review of the last year for each of our Our equities business remains strong and asset classes and regions.
we also made good progress in a broad range of key capabilities and markets.
Financial review A summary of financial performance, looking at the Very strong financial performance, income statement, balance sheet, cash flow and improving fee and operating margins regulatory capital.
leading to a stronger balance sheet.
Risk management A summary of the principal risks that we face, as well as The risk profile is similar to last year, but an overview of the Groups risk management framework.
we highlight greater equities concentration and the importance of conduct risk.
Our key measurements of success AuM September 2013 Operating margin 200.4bn 45.4% Net revenue Underlying profit before tax 1,078.5m 482.7m Read more on our KPIs on pages 28 and 29.
Summary This section of the strategic report from pages 14 to 47 brings together an overview of our business model and strategy, as well as more information on our people and investment process.
We look at how we performed in the year in the context of markets and the progress in the business and the Groups financial position.
These pages illustrate our strong performance in recent years.
Our strategic priorities have not changed and we will continue to apply our focused, long-term investment process and aim to achieve further diversification of our AuM and revenue streams.
M J Gilbert W J Rattray Chief Executive Finance Director aberdeen-asset.
