NOTES Forming part of the financial statements 1 Accounting policies Reporting entity Betfair Group plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 30 April 2013 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and the Groups interest in jointly controlled entities.
The Group is involved in the provision of betting services and online gaming products.
The Parent Company financial statements present information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 30 April 2013 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Directors on 27 June 2013.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these are presented on pages 99 to 101.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following: derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value: and financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value.
Going concern The Group has considerable financial resources.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the ongoing economic uncertainty.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and therefore they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the consolidated financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the Directors Report on page 33.
Functional currency and presentation currency These consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the Companys functional currency.
All financial information presented in Pounds Sterling has been rounded to the nearest million, except otherwise stated.
Changes in accounting policy The new standards and interpretations did not have a material impact on the results or the financial position of the Group as at 30 April 2013 or on any disclosures.
The Group continues to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed by the European Union and require adoption by the Group in future accounting periods.
Basis of consolidation Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Control is the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable.
The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: the fair value of the consideration transferred: plus the recognised amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquired entity: plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquired entity: less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
When the goodwill is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value as at the acquisition date.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not re-measured and settlement is accounted for within equity.
i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The accounting policies of subsidiaries have been changed when necessary to align them with the policies adopted by the Group.
64 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ii Associates and jointly controlled entities equity accounted investments Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting power of another entity.
Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic, financial and operating decisions.
Associates and jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted investments and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the comprehensive income and equity movements of equity accounted investments, from the date that significant influence or joint control commences until the date that significant influence or joint control ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investment, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
iii Acquisition of non-controlling interests Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investments are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investments.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of Group entities at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between amortised cost in the functional currency at the beginning of the period, adjusted for effective interest and payments during the period, and the amortised cost in foreign currency translated at the exchange rate at the end of the period.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income statement.
Foreign operations The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated to the Groups presentational currency, Pounds Sterling, at foreign exchange rates ruling at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising from this translation of foreign operations are taken directly to the Translation reserve.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, in part or in full, the relevant amount in Translation reserve is transferred to the income statement.
When the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, foreign currency gains and losses arising from such item are considered to form part of a net investment in the foreign operation and are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the translation reserve in equity.
The most significant currencies for the Group were translated at the following exchange rates: Assets and liabilities Income and expenses Value of 1 Closing rates Cumulative average rates Euro 1.18 1.22 US Dollar 1.55 1.58 Australian Dollar 1.50 1.53 Romanian Lei 5.12 5.47 Discontinued operations Results in relation to discontinued operations are disclosed as a single amount on the face of the consolidated income statement comprising the total post-tax loss of the subsidiary disposed of.
The comparative periods in the income statement are stated in the same way.
com investor-relations annual-reports 65 Notes continued 1 Accounting policies continued Restructuring costs A restructuring cost is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation to those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement that plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring cost includes only the direct expenditure arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily incurred by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Available-for-sale financial assets The Groups investments in certain equity securities are classified as available-for-sale financial assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the assets are reviewed annually for changes in value with any impairment loss recognised through the income statement, and on disposal any realised gains and losses are also recognised through the income statement.
On an annual basis the available-for-sale financial assets are reviewed and re-measured on a fair value basis if the fair value is significantly different to the value previously recorded and where the fair value of the unlisted equity shares can be reliably measured.
Financial instruments i Classification of financial instruments issued by the Group Financial instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: they include no contractual obligations upon the Group to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Group: and where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Companys exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these consolidated financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
ii Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity securities, trade and other receivables, including cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
Subsequent to initial recognition non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include certain client funds deposited in a stakeholder account held by The Sporting Exchange Clients Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, on the basis that they are held on trust for customers and do not belong to and are not at the disposal of the Group.
Non-derivative financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss An instrument is classified at fair value through profit or loss if it is held for trading or is designated as such upon initial recognition.
Financial instruments are designated at fair value through profit or loss if the Group manages such investments and makes purchase and sale decisions based on their fair value in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment strategy.
Upon initial recognition, directly attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value, and changes therein are recognised in the income statement.
iii Other Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.
iv Derivative financial instruments The Group from time to time holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign currency risk exposure.
Derivatives are recognised initially at fair value: attributable transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are measured at fair value, and changes therein are accounted for as described below.
Cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of the derivative hedging instrument designated as a cash flow hedge are recognised directly in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
The cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast transaction occurs.
When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when it is recognised.
In other cases the amount recognised in equity is transferred to the income statement in the same period that the hedged item affects the income statement.
66 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Share capital i Ordinary shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
ii Repurchase of share capital treasury shares When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid which includes directly attributable costs, is net of any tax effects, and is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
When treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to or from retained earnings.
When the Company opts to buy back its own shares, this is treated as a cancellation of shares resulting in a reduction in equity.
Earnings per share The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share EPS data for its ordinary shares.
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which include awards under share award schemes and share options granted to employees.
Property, plant and equipment i Recognition and measurement Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the costs of materials and direct labour and any other directly attributable cost to bringing the assets to a working condition for their intended use.
Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, and are recognised within the income statement.
ii Depreciation Depreciation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Leasehold improvements Over the term of the lease or the useful economic life of the asset, if shorter Plant and machinery 10 years Fixtures and fittings 5 years Computer equipment 3 years Motor vehicles 3 years Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Goodwill and other intangible assets i Goodwill Goodwill represents amounts arising on acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities.
Acquisitions on or after 1 May 2007 In respect of business acquisitions that have occurred since 1 May 2007, goodwill represents the difference between the fair value of consideration for the acquisition and the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Acquisitions prior to 1 May 2007 The Group has taken advantage of the exemption permitted by IFRS 1 and has not elected to restate business combinations that took place prior to 1 May 2007.
In respect of acquisitions prior to 1 May 2007, goodwill is included at 1 May 2007 on the basis of its deemed cost, which represents the amount recorded under the Groups previous accounting framework which was broadly comparable save that only separable intangibles were recognised and goodwill was amortised.
com investor-relations annual-reports 67 Notes continued 1 Accounting policies continued Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Subsequent measurement Goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
In respect of equity accounted investments, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the investee.
ii Internally generated goodwill and brands Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is recognised in the income statement as an expense, as incurred.
iii Research and development Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Expenditure on development activities is recognised as an internally generated intangible asset only when the necessary criteria are met: including demonstrating the technical feasibility of the product and having sufficient certainty over the future revenue or cost savings that will be generated from the product.
The qualifying expenditure capitalised represents costs directly attributable to the development of the asset.
This expenditure is capitalised from the point at which the above criteria are met up to the point at which the asset is available for use.
If the criteria are not met the expenditure is recognised in the income statement as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
Capitalised development expenditure assets are amortised on a straight-line basis from the date they are available for use over their useful economic lives.
iv Other intangible assets Identifiable intangibles are assets which have finite lives, can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring in to use, the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful economic life or the life of the software licence contract.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and less accumulated impairment losses.
v Amortisation Amortisation is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill, from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: Computer software The shorter of the licence period and up to 10 years Licences The shorter of the licence period and up to 10 years Wagering technologies 6 years Customer lists 2 to 4 years Development expenditure 3 years Brand 2 years Broadcasting technologies 2 years Impairment i Financial assets A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired.
An indicator of impairment of a financial asset is apparent if objective evidence highlights that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate.
An impairment loss in respect of an available-for-sale financial asset is calculated by reference to its fair value and book value.
Significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis.
The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit risk characteristics.
All impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in the income statement.
For available-for-sale financial assets that are equity securities, the reversal is recognised directly in equity.
68 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ii Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups non-financial assets, other than deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, then the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated each year at the same time.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets the cash generating unit.
The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to cash generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset when allocated to a cash generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Employee benefits i Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in the income statement when they are due.
ii Short-term benefits Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
iii Share-based payment transactions The following schemes are in place that allow employees to acquire shares in the Group: Share option plans and Save-As-You-Earn schemes Share option plans and Save-As-You-Earn schemes are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payment schemes on the basis that the Group will not be required to settle its obligations under these schemes in cash.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the share options and is calculated using an option pricing model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest.
Restricted share scheme The Group provides a restricted share scheme as part of its bonus plan.
Awards made under the terms of the restricted share scheme until 2011 represent a conditional right to receive shares in the Company provided that certain Group and individual performance criteria are met.
Restricted shares are valued with reference to the market value of the shares on the date of grant.
The shares vest over a three-year period and one-third of the total entitlement vest each year.
The first years entitlement can be taken in cash at the option of the employee, and accordingly this component is accounted for as a cash settled scheme and recorded as a liability.
If, on the date of settlement, the employee elects to receive shares instead of cash, the liability previously recognised is transferred to equity, as the consideration for the equity instruments issued.
The remaining two-thirds of restricted shares granted cannot be taken in cash and accordingly are accounted for as equity-settled schemes.
A charge is recognised in employee expenses on a straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding increase in equity.
com investor-relations annual-reports 69 Notes continued 1 Accounting policies continued Long-term incentive plan LTIP, Short-term incentive plan STIP and Management incentive plan MIP During the 2010 financial year, the Group revised the terms of the existing restricted shares scheme for Directors, executives and senior management with the LTIP, STIP and MIP schemes.
These bonus schemes entitle the recipients to cash, share options and restricted share rewards based on meeting the Group and individual performance criteria over a three year for LTIP and one year period STIP and MIP.
The schemes have awards in the form of cash, share options and restricted shares.
Determining the fair value of each element is consistent with the measurement outlined above in each sharebased payment category.
The STIP and the MIP have cash elements which are fixed in value and are paid and expensed in the first year that the award is issued.
The cash award represents two-thirds of the total award.
There is no option given to the recipient of the award to elect to have these issued in shares.
The cash element issued is classified as a cash bonus in the income statement and not a cash settled share-based payment.
This is on the basis that the employee does not have the option to choose whether they receive cash or shares.
Long-term Senior Executives Incentive Plan SEIP The Long-term Senior Executives Incentive Plan SEIP was approved by the Board on 16 October 2007.
The plan provides for certain senior management and Directors to be granted one-off awards consisting of a cash and restricted shares element.
The scheme came into effect upon the admission of the Groups shares on the London Stock Exchange.
The cash was paid on the date of admission to the participants in the scheme.
The restricted shares were granted on the date of admission and half of the restricted shares vested on the first anniversary of the listing and the next half on the second anniversary of the listing.
The restricted shares in the SEIP are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares.
Stakeholder award scheme During 2011, the Group issued 309,280 restricted shares and 26,829 phantom shares to the employees of the Group as part of the new Stakeholder award scheme.
The scheme relates to the individual employees performance during the financial year ended 30 April 2010 for which a cash bonus accrual had been recognised.
Subsequent to the year ended 30 April 2010 the reward was settled by the issue of equity instruments.
The restricted shares and phantom shares had a vesting period spanning from the first day of the financial year to which they relate to the vest date of 1 August 2011.
The restricted shares in the scheme were convertible into shares upon vest date and they were measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares.
The phantom shares in the scheme were only convertible to cash upon the vest date and they are measured based on the market value at the date of grant.
Revenue Revenue is measured as the consideration received from customers and represents amounts received for services provided by the Group, as set out below.
Commission and fee income arising from the Groups betting exchange activities, which comprises both sports betting and exchange games, is recognised on the date the market for an event is settled.
The Sportsbook, Games, and Multiples product revenue represents gains and losses from betting activity.
Open betting liability positions are recognised based on the best estimate of the expenditure that will be required to settle the position at the balance sheet date, and losses arising from these positions are recognised in revenue.
Revenues from pari-mutuel betting products Advanced Deposit Wagering and Tote products represents a percentage of the stake recognised on settlement of the event.
Commission revenue on spread betting and other financial products is recognised on the date of the transaction of each trade.
Online Poker revenue is recorded as the net income rake earned from completed poker games.
Revenue also includes amounts received from the management of customer funds.
Expenses i Cost of sales Cost of sales principally comprises betting and gaming taxes, customer payment transaction fees, sporting levies and other data rights charges.
ii Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense over the term of the lease.
70 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Finance income and expense Finance income comprises interest earned on corporate funds invested, changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and gains on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues in the income statement, using the effective interest method.
Finance expenses comprise interest expense on borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions, changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, impairment losses recognised on financial assets, and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in the income statement.
All borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis, either in finance income or finance expense as appropriate.
Tax Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax expense is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity through the other reserve, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of dividends are recognised at the same time that the liability to pay the related dividend is recognised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
In determining the current and deferred tax the Group takes into account the impact of uncertain tax positions and whether additional taxes and interest may be due.
The Group believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open tax years based on its assessment of many factors, including interpretations of tax law and prior experience.
This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of judgments about future events.
New information may become available that causes the Group to change its judgement regarding the adequacy of existing tax liabilities: such changes to tax liabilities will impact tax expense in the period that such a determination is made.
Operating segments An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
Segment information is based on the internal reports regularly reviewed by the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM in order to assess each segments performance and to allocate resources.
The CODM is the Chief Executive Officer.
Leases Under accounting standards there is a requirement for management to examine the buildings element within each property lease to determine if the lease meets the definition of a finance lease and, if so, it should be accounted for as such.
This review involves determining the fair value of each property at the inception of the lease and analysing the minimum lease payments between their land and buildings elements.
Based on managements review of leases for the years ended 30 April 2013 and 2012, all premises leases qualify as operating leases.
Separately disclosed items Items that are material in size, unusual or infrequent in nature are included within operating profit and disclosed separately in the income statement.
The separate reporting of these items, which are disclosed within the relevant category in the income statement, helps provide a more accurate indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
com investor-relations annual-reports 71 Notes continued 1 Accounting policies continued Accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
In particular, information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements is included in the following notes: Estimates Note 11 Capitalisation of development expenditure The Group makes certain estimates surrounding costs included in the capitalisation of development expenditure incurred for each project, when considering whether or not a project meets the criteria within IAS 38 Intangible assets.
An estimate is also required in determining the start and end dates of the projects as well as determining the appropriate useful economic lives of each capitalised project.
Note 8 Income tax Tax on profits is determined according to complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on past profits which are recognised in the financial statements.
Note 11 Measurement of the recoverable amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets A full impairment review has been performed of all goodwill and intangible assets held by the Group on a cash generating unit basis.
The impairment review is performed on a value in use basis, which requires estimation of future net operating cash flows, the time period over which they will occur, an appropriate discount rate and an appropriate growth rate.
Note 14 Deferred tax Deferred tax assets and liabilities represent managements best estimate in determining the amounts to be recognised.
When assessing the extent to which deferred tax assets should be recognised, consideration is given to the timing and level of future taxable income.
Note 17 Accounting for accruals The calculation of accruals contains an inherent level of subjectivity.
Management considers that the current level of accruals represents managements best estimate of the likely exposure.
Note 20 Measurement of share-based payments Judgement and estimation is required in determining the fair value of shares at the date of award.
The fair value is estimated using valuation techniques which take into account the awards term, the risk free interest rate and the expected volatility of the market price of shares of comparable businesses to the Group.
Judgements Note 1 Basis of consolidation Judgement is applied when determining if an acquired entity is controlled by the Group, and whether the acquired entity meets the criteria to be defined as a subsidiary.
Control is presumed to exist when the Group owns, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, more than half of the voting power of an entity.
However if the Group owns half or less of the voting power of an entity, control may still exist.
In assessing control, the Group considers whether it has the ability to control on a legal or contractual basis rather than whether that control is actually exercised.
Specific examples of where the Group has control of subsidiaries are where it has the power to govern the entitys financial and operating policies by virtue of statute or agreement and where it has the power to cast the majority of votes of the entitys governing body.
Note 5 Separately disclosed items Judgement has been used by management to identify items that are material in size and unusual or infrequent in nature.
They are included within operating profit and disclosed separately in the income statement.
The separate reporting of these items helps to provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
Note 22 Valuation of derivative financial instruments Judgement is required in the assessment of prospective effectiveness both at hedge inception and during the period over which hedge accounting is adopted.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments can also involve judgement.
Where appropriate, external valuations from financial institutions are undertaken to support the carrying value of such items.
Business combinations Judgement and estimation is required in the identification and valuation of separable assets and liabilities on acquisitions.
In particular, in the identification and valuation of separable intangible assets and determining appropriate useful economic lives for these assets, and also in determining contingent consideration payable in respect of acquisitions where required by the terms of the agreement.
72 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Future accounting developments The following new standards, interpretations and amendments were issued by the IASB or the IFRIC but were not effective for the financial year and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU : amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement revision to IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements revision to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures revision to IAS 19 Employee Benefits amendments to IFRS 1 Government Loans amendments to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities IFRS 9 Financial Instruments amendments to IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The Directors have decided not to early adopt the above standards and they do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRICs in issue but not yet effective that are expected to have a significant impact for the Group.
Reclassification of equity-settled shared-based payments Underlying EBITDA in the Consolidated Income Statement has historically been presented as EBITDA excluding separately disclosed items and equity-settled share-based payments.
For the year ended 30 April 2013 charges relating to equity-settled share-based payments have been included within Underlying EBITDA and comparative periods have been amended accordingly.
If no reclassification was made, the Underlying EBITDA would be 82.6m for the year ended 30 April 2013 and 94.1m for the year ended 30 April 2012, respectively.
2 Operating segments The Groups continuing operating businesses are organised and managed as reportable business segments according to the information which is used by the Groups CODM in making decisions about reporting matters.
These segments are: Core Betfair Exchange Sports Gaming Management of customer funds Other investments Betfair US High Rollers.
As stated in the interim release for the six months ended 31 October 2012, it was the intention of the CODM to operate a new organisational structure based on the Exchange, Sports and Gaming business units.
The Group has realigned operations from the previous structure to provide reportable business performance under these units.
To meet the requirements of IFRS 8, the operating segments disclosure has been revised to reflect the new reportable business segments.
Comparative periods have been amended accordingly.
Exchange consists of the Exchange sports betting product, which offers markets on Racing, Football, Sports and Specials SAS and Timeform.
Sports consists of the Sportsbook, Multiples and our Betfair Select product.
Gaming consists of various casino products and bespoke exchange games products.
Tradefair Spreads and Poker are also classified within Gaming.
All of these gaming activities are played by customers in a number of geographical areas.
Exchange and Gaming meet the quantitative thresholds required by IFRS 8 as reportable segment.
While Sports and revenue from the management of customer funds do not meet these requirements, these segments are separately disclosed as they are closely monitored by the CODM.
The Groups US operations including the TVG Network meet the quantitative threshold to be disclosed separately.
Following the decision to dispose of the Groups subsidiary LMAX Limited in October 2012 which was completed in January 2013 and treatment of these operations as discontinued, the segmental information disclosed previously has been amended see note 27.
Tradefair Spreads Limited, which was previously reported under the LMAX segment, is part of the Groups continuing operations and is now reported as part of the Core reporting segment.
Similarly, High Rollers was also assessed by the Board as being a reportable segment in 2011. corporate.
com investor-relations annual-reports 73 Notes continued 2 Operating segments continued The results of the Australian joint venture are consolidated in the Group accounts on an equity accounting basis.
As such only the net assets and the share of profits losses are presented in the operating segment note below.
If proportional consolidation was applied the Groups share of the Australian joint venture would have increased revenue by 18.0m 30 April 2011: 16.0m and increased EBITDA by 2.1m 30 April 2012: increase by 4.9m.
The revenue from Exchange, Sports, Gaming and the management of customer funds represents the developed and integrated parts of the Groups business and have been grouped together as Core Betfair.
Other investments represent relatively recent additions to the Groups business and which the CODM considers to be in the early stages of development.
The Group focuses its internal management reporting predominantly on revenue, as the products potential to generate revenue is the chief driver of the Groups business and the allocation of resources.
The Groups cost base is to a large extent fixed in nature.
Corporate expenses, assets and liabilities cannot be allocated to individual operating segments and are not used by the CODM for making operating and resource allocation decisions.
However, expenses are allocated and reviewed by the CODM between Core Betfair, Other investments and High Rollers and the analysis of EBITDA for them is summarised below.
Management also reviews Group revenue on a geographic basis, determined by the location of the customers when known.
This information is analysed below on the following basis: UK Europe Rest of World Unallocated.
The majority of the Groups non-current assets are located in the UK.
Revenue unallocated to a geographical segment represents amounts from the management of customer funds and High Rollers.
Segmental information for the years ended 30 April 2013 and 30 April 2012 is as follows: Year ended 30 April 2013 Management of customer Core Betfair Other High Gaming Exchange Sports funds Betfair US investments Rollers Group m m m m m m m m m Revenue 247.5 24.1 75.9 1.5 349.0 38.0 38.0 387.0 Underlying EBITDA 70.4 2.9 2.9 73.3 Separately disclosed items 21.9 0.2 0.2 22.1 EBITDA 48.5 2.7 2.7 51.2 Depreciation and amortisation 37.8 Impairment 82.4 Profit on disposal of availablefor-sale financial asset 16.8 Net finance income 1.4 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 1.4 Profit before tax 49.4 Tax 4.2 Loss for the period from 21.1 discontinued operations Loss after tax and 66.3 discontinued operations Total assets 276.3 Total liabilities 144.3 Underlying EBITDA has historically been presented as Adjusted EBITDA and defined as EBITDA before separately disclosed items and charges relating to equity-settled share-based payments.
For the year ended 30 April 2013, Adjusted EBITDA has been renamed Underlying EBITA and includes charges relating to equity-settled share-based payments but excludes separately disclosed items.
Separately disclosed items in the prior year include results from High Rollers 2013: nil, 2012: 3.9m profit.
Includes results from Tradefair Spreads Limited that was previously disclosed as LMAX and classified as other investments.
74 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Year ended 30 April 2012 Management of customer Core Betfair Other High Exchange Sports Gaming funds Betfair US investments Rollers Group m m m m m m m m m Revenue 250.1 18.1 81.1 3.0 352.3 36.2 36.2 388.5 Underlying EBITDA 86.9 0.9 0.9 86.0 Separately disclosed items 6.4 3.9 2.5 EBITDA 80.5 0.9 0.9 3.9 83.5 Depreciation and amortisation 37.2 Net finance income 3.6 Share of profit of equity accounted investments 4.3 Profit before tax 54.2 Tax 7.6 Loss for the year from 12.6 discontinued operations Profit after tax and 34.0 discontinued operations Total assets 339.4 Total liabilities 143.3 Underlying EBITDA has historically been presented as Adjusted EBITDA and defined as EBITDA before separately disclosed items and charges relating to equity-settled share-based payments.
The results relating to Tradefair Spreads Limiteds operation which was previously reported under the LMAX segment and which is still part of the Groups continuing operations is shown within Gaming.
The amount previously disclosed has been amended to reflect the new organisational structure of reportable segments.
Geographical information determined by location of customers is set out below: Year ended 30 April 2013 UK Europe Rest of World Unallocated Group m m m m m Core Betfair 214.3 110.8 22.4 1.5 349.0 Other investments 38.0 38.0 Total Group revenue 214.3 110.8 60.4 1.5 387.0 Year ended 30 April 2012 UK Europe Rest of World Unallocated Group m m m m m Core Betfair 196.9 133.7 18.7 3.0 352.3 Other investments 36.2 36.2 Total Group revenue 196.9 133.7 54.9 3.0 388.5 Unallocated represents revenue from the management of customer funds.
Revenue derived from customers located in Ireland has been reclassified from Europe to UK for the year ended 30 April 2013.
The prior year comparatives have been amended to reflect this reclassification.
com investor-relations annual-reports 75 Notes continued 3 Loss profit before tax Loss profit before tax is stated after charging: 2013 2012 m m Equity-settled share-based payments and associated costs 9.3 8.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 17.0 16.2 Amortisation of capitalised development costs 15.6 16.9 Amortisation of other intangibles 7.5 8.1 Rentals payable under operating leases 8.7 8.4 Research and non-capitalised development costs 51.0 49.5 Auditors remuneration: 2013 2012 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.5 0.6 Other services pursuant to legislation review of interim financial statements 0.1 0.1 Other services pursuant to legislation profit estimate listing procedures 0.1 Tax services 0.1 0.5 Transaction advisory 0.1 0.1 Total 1.0 1.4 Amounts paid to the Companys auditor and their associates in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the Companys financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is required instead to be disclosed on a consolidated basis.
4 Employee numbers and costs The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: 2013 2012 No.
Technology 924 994 Sales and marketing 272 281 Operations 545 656 G&A 325 333 Total 2,066 2,264 The above numbers include the average numbers of persons of 71 2012: 78 employed by Groups discontinued operation LMAX.
The number of persons employed by the Group including Directors as at 30 April 2013 was 1,773 2012: 2,302.
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: 2013 2012 m m Wages and salaries 104.7 110.6 Social security costs 10.8 11.3 Redundancy costs 1.5 Equity-settled share-based payments and associated costs note 20 9.3 8.1 Pension costs 2.4 2.7 Total 127.2 134.2 The above numbers include the aggregate payroll costs of 5.5m 2012: 6.7m in relation to the Groups discontinued operation LMAX.
Details on the remuneration of Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56.
76 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5 Separately disclosed items Separately disclosed items are those items the Group considers to be non-recurring or material in nature that should be brought to the readers attention in understanding the Groups financial performance.
2013 2012 m m Regulatory developments 6.4 Results from High Rollers 3.9 Restructuring costs 19.4 Costs incurred on corporate projects 2.7 Total 22.1 2.5 During the year ended 30 April 2013, the Group has incurred costs of 19.4m, which relate to its restructuring and cost optimisation initiatives see note 18, and 2.7m in relation to professional fees resulting from the rejected takeover approach by CVC and partners.
During the year ended 30 April 2012, regulatory developments comprise a one-off expense relating to Spanish gaming tax and other costs relating to the Groups Spanish operations in prior periods.
During the year ended 30 April 2013, separately disclosed items have been recorded within administrative expenses 2012: separately disclosed items were recorded within cost of sales.
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets 2013 2012 m m Impairment recognised of goodwill and other intangible assets 82.4 As at 30 April 2013, following the announcement of the Groups strategic priorities during the first six months of the financial year, management has undertaken a review of the carrying value of all intangible assets, including goodwill and capitalised development expenditure.
As a result of this review, an impairment charge of 82.4m has been recorded in the income statement see note 11.
6 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial asset 2013 2012 m m Profit on sale of investment 16.8 On 20 November 2012 the Group sold its shares held in Kabam for $30m 18.8m see note 13.
7 Finance income and expense Recognised in income statement 2013 2012 m m Finance income Bank interest receivable 1.1 1.2 Foreign exchange gain 0.3 2.4 Total 1.4 3.6 The Group has no finance expense in the current year 2012: nil.
com investor-relations annual-reports 77 Notes continued 8 Tax Recognised in the income statement 2013 2012 m m Current tax UK current year 4.1 4.8 UK adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.6 3.5 Overseas current year 0.9 2.6 Overseas adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.2 0.5 Current tax expense 4.2 3.4 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 8.2 4.4 Tax rate reduction 0.2 0.2 Deferred tax 8.4 4.2 Total tax credit expense 4.2 7.6 Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2013 2012 m m Loss profit before tax 49.4 54.2 Total tax credit expense 4.2 7.6 Loss profit for the year 45.2 46.6 Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 23.9% 2012: 25.8% 11.8 14.0 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions 0.9 2.1 Non-deductible expenses 15.5 1.1 Tax rate reduction 0.2 0.1 Current year losses for which no deferred tax asset was recognised 1.0 2.1 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.6 4.7 Group relief claimed for no payment 3.6 2.7 Tax exempt revenues 4.0 Total tax credit expense 4.2 7.6 Tax recognised directly in equity 2013 2012 m m Other deferred tax in relation to equity-settled share-based payments 0.9 1.4 Deferred tax 0.9 1.4 Current tax in relation to equity-settled share-based payments 0.8 0.8 Total tax 0.1 0.6 78 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Groups consolidated effective tax rate for the year was 8.5% 30 April 2012: 14.0% restated for LMAX discontinued operations.
The tax effect of exceptional and impairment items in the current year amounted to a tax credit of 10.4m 2012: 0.2m.
The 2013 Budget on 25 March 2013 announced that the UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 20% by 2015.
A reduction in the rate from 26% to 24% effective from 1 April 2012 was substantively enacted on 26 March 2012, and a further reduction to 23% effective from 1 April 2013 was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012.
This will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The deferred tax liability at 30 April 2013 has been calculated based on the rate of 23% substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
It has not yet been possible to quantify the full anticipated effect of the announced further 3% rate reduction, although this will further reduce the Groups future current tax charge and reduce the Groups deferred tax liability accordingly.
9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per share for the year ended 30 April 2013 was based on the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of 66.3m 30 April 2012: profit of 34.7m and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding of 101,854,246 30 April 2012: 104,569,704.
2013 2012 Loss profit for the year m 66.3 34.7 Weighted average number of shares 101,854,246 104,569,704 Basic loss earnings per share 65.1 p 33.1p Diluted earnings per share 32.5p The loss earnings per share calculations include the results of the discontinued operations.
Please see page 59 for the separately disclosed basic and diluted earnings per share for the continuing operations of the Group.
Diluted earnings per share The calculation of diluted earnings per share for the year ended 30 April 2013 was based on the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of 66.3m 30 April 2012: profit of 34.7m and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after adjustment for the effect of all dilutive potential ordinary shares of 103,378,698 30 April 2012: 106,780,109.
As any potential ordinary shares would have the effect of decreasing the loss per share for the year ended 30 April 2013, they have not been treated as dilutive: hence diluted earnings per share have not been disclosed.
Profit used to determine diluted earnings per share 2013 2012 m m Loss profit used to determine diluted earnings per share 66.3 34.7 As any potential ordinary shares would have the effect of decreasing the loss per share for the year ended 30 April 2013, they have not been treated as dilutive: hence diluted earnings per share have not been disclosed.
Weighted average number of shares diluted 2013 2012 Weighted average number of ordinary shares basic 101,854,246 104,569,704 Effect of share options on issue 1,524,452 2,210,405 Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted 103,378,698 106,780,109 The average market value of the Companys shares of 7.33 2012: 7.76 was used to calculate the dilutive effect of share options based on the market value for the year that the options were outstanding.
com investor-relations annual-reports 79 Notes continued 10 Property, plant and equipment Freehold Fixtures Vehicles, land and Leasehold Computer and plant and buildings improvements equipment fittings equipment Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2011 0.8 13.7 80.4 6.9 0.7 102.5 Additions 4.210.71.7 0.316.9 Disposals 4.9 1.0 0.4 0.3 6.6 Net foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.1 At 30 April 2012 0.8 13.0 90.1 8.3 0.7 112.9 Additions 2.24.20.8 7.2 Disposals 0.9 0.2 0.1 0.5 1.7 Derecognised on disposal of subsidiary 0.4 4.4 0.1 4.9 Net foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.6 0.1 0.8 At 30 April 2013 0.8 14.0 90.3 9.0 0.2 114.3 Depreciation At 1 May 2011 0.1 8.1 57.8 3.1 0.4 69.5 Depreciation for the year 2.0 12.6 1.4 0.2 16.2 Disposals 4.9 1.0 0.4 0.3 6.6 Net foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.1 At 30 April 2012 0.1 5.2 69.4 4.2 0.3 79.2 Depreciation for the year 2.5 12.7 1.7 0.1 17.0 Impairment 1.91.30.1 3.3 Disposals 0.8 0.2 0.2 1.2 Derecognised on disposal of subsidiary 0.4 4.4 0.1 4.9 Net foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 30 April 2013 0.1 8.5 79.0 5.9 0.2 93.7 Net book value At 30 April 2012 0.7 7.8 20.7 4.1 0.4 33.7 At 30 April 2013 0.7 5.5 11.3 3.1 20.6 In the year ended 30 April 2013, additions totalling 1.3m and depreciation totalling 0.4m was recognised in respect of discontinued operations see note 27.
Except for 1.8m of leasehold improvements, the impairment relates solely to the assets of the discontinued operation.
80 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets Broadcasting and Computer Development Customer wagering Goodwill software Licences expenditure Brand lists technologies Total m m m m m m m m Cost At 1 May 2011 53.5 21.7 1.7 74.1 1.9 3.8 0.9 157.6 Acquisitions through business combinations 0.2 0.2 Other acquisitions internally developed 29.4 29.4 Other acquisitions externally purchased 9.5 7.0 16.5 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Net foreign exchange differences 0.3 0.1 0.10.1 0.4 At 30 April 2012 54.0 31.0 1.6 110.5 2.0 3.9 0.9 203.9 Other acquisitions internally developed 18.9 18.9 Other acquisitions externally purchased 3.5 3.2 5.3 12.0 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Derecognised on disposal of subsidiary 13.9 13.9 Net foreign exchange differences 1.8 0.1 0.10.10.2 2.3 At 30 April 2013 55.8 34.5 1.6 118.8 2.1 9.4 0.9 223.1 Amortisation At 1 May 2011 8.5 1.3 32.2 1.9 2.1 0.6 46.6 Amortisation for the year 6.9 0.1 16.9 1.0 0.1 25.0 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Net foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.10.1 0.1 At 30 April 2012 15.2 1.3 49.1 2.0 3.2 0.7 71.5 Amortisation for the year 6.4 0.1 15.6 1.0 23.1 Impairment 34.6 5.1 47.0 0.186.8 Disposals 0.1 0.1 Derecognised on disposal of subsidiary 13.9 13.9 Net foreign exchange differences 0.7 0.1 0.10.2 1.1 At 30 April 2013 35.3 26.6 1.5 97.8 2.1 4.4 0.8 168.5 Net book value At 30 April 2012 54.0 15.8 0.3 61.4 0.7 0.2 132.4 At 30 April 2013 20.5 7.9 0.1 21.0 5.0 0.1 54.6 Computer software represents software licences which have been purchased from suppliers.
Licences represent bookmaking licences held by the Group.
Development expenditure represents internally and externally generated costs incurred on development activities.
These costs have been capitalised in accordance with the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
The remaining other intangibles represent assets purchased as part of the TVG Network acquisition being brand, customer lists and broadcasting and wagering technologies and the customer database purchased as part of the Blue Square Bet acquisition in March 2013.
These are amortised over their estimated useful economic lives which fall between two to six years.
The amortisation charge of intangible assets is recognised within Administrative expenses in the income statement.
com investor-relations annual-reports 81 Notes continued 11 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued In the year ended 30 April 2013, the Group capitalised development expenditure amounting to 1.5m, incurred amortisation of 1.9m and impaired assets amounting to 6.2m in respect of the discontinued operations.
Goodwill At 30 April 2013, the carrying amount of goodwill, after the impairment review, was 20.5m 2012: 54.0m allocated across one 2012: four cash generating units CGUs as follows: 2013 2012 m m CGU Sports 8.7 Games 2.5 Poker 10.0 TVG 20.5 32.8 Total goodwill net book value at 30 April 20.5 54.0 All goodwill is recorded in local currency.
Additions during the year are converted at the exchange rate on the date of the transaction and the goodwill at the end of the year is stated at closing exchange rates.
Impairment testing Goodwill Impairment charges of 34.6m were recognised in the year ended 30 April 2013.
In the prior periods, goodwill has been allocated to the following CGUs in line with Groups segmental reporting: Sports Games Poker TVG.
As part of the strategic review referred to on pages 3 to 7 and changes to the future reporting structure of the Groups operations, it is considered appropriate to monitor the business at a more granular level and goodwill has been allocated to CGUs on this basis.
In line with this approach, subsequent impairments of 21.0m have been recognised in respect of past acquisitions.
Following recent regulatory developments in the US, management undertook a strategic review of the US market and TVGs position within that market.
As a result of this review, the TVG CGU has been impaired by 13.6m.
The key changes to assumptions since the previous impairment test relate to an anticipated reduction in operating margins and future growth rates.
In order to determine whether impairments are required, the Directors estimate the recoverable amount of each CGU.
The calculation is based on projecting future pre-tax cash flows over a five year period and uses a terminal value to incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
The terminal value is calculated using a perpetuity model, which reflects the expected long-term average growth rate for the business in which the CGU operates.
The budgets for the next financial year form the basis of the cash flow projections for each CGU.
Cash flow projections for the next four financial years reflect managements expectations of the medium term operating performance of the CGUs and growth prospects in each CGUs markets and regions, and have been modelled in line with historic patterns experienced by the Group in recent years, where relevant.
A discount factor is applied to obtain a value in use which is the recoverable amount, unless the fair value less costs to sell the respective CGU is an amount in excess of the value in use.
The calculation of value in use for goodwill is sensitive to the following key assumptions: i Operating cash flow One of the key drivers of operating cash flow is revenue.
The 2014 revenue figures for each CGU are based on the budget for the next financial year.
For the years 2015 to 2018, the likely organic growth rates were assessed for each region in the CGU, taking account of past experience, growth prospects in regions and historic player patterns.
For TVG CGU, the terminal growth rate used was 2.0% 2012: 2.0%.
The management consider the assumed growth rate to be conservative.
82 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ii Discount rate applied The discount rate applied to a CGU represents a pre-tax rate that reflects the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for the risks specific to the CGU.
For the TVG CGU, a pre-tax discount rate of 12.5% 2012: 12.5% has been used in discounting the projected cash flows for that CGU.
The calculation of recoverable amount of TVG goodwill is primarily sensitive to forecast future earnings, the discount rates applied as well as future developments in US horseracing.
Management have considered the effect of either a decrease of up to 10.0% in future planned earnings for all financial years ending 30 April 2018 or an increase in the discount rate for each CGU of up to 2.0%, both of which are considered unlikely.
There are no reasonable changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of TVG CGUs to exceed the recoverable amount.
Development expenditure and software As part of the strategic review, management has also performed a detailed review of the carrying value of capitalised development costs.
Those projects which are no longer in use as part of the sustainable revenues strategy as referred in the Strategic Review section have been impaired resulting in a charge of 47.0m.
This charge includes the impairment of the development costs incurred in building the US Exchange 10.4m and the LMAX Exchange 6.2m.
The charge in respect of LMAX has been included within the loss from discontinued operations as a result of the LMAX sale see note 27.
The remaining 30.4m impairment charge relates to specific projects where the anticipated returns no longer support the carrying value as a result of the change in strategic focus of the business.
Following a review of the carrying value of the Groups software assets, an impairment charge of 5.1m has also been recorded.
com investor-relations annual-reports 83 Notes continued 12 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities The Group and Company have the following principal investments in subsidiaries, associates and jointly controlled entities: Ordinary shares held Country of origin Principal activity Classification % The Sporting Exchange Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Betfair Limited England Support services Subsidiary 100 Betfair General Betting Limited England Bookmaking Subsidiary 100 The Sporting Exchange Clients Limited England Gambling and betting Subsidiary 100 Timeform Limited England Publisher Subsidiary 100 Timeform Betfair Racing Club Limited England Horse racing club Subsidiary 100 TSE Global Limited England Trading Subsidiary 100 TSE Development Limited England Intellectual property licensor Subsidiary 100 TSE Holdings Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Winslow One Limited England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Winslow Two England Holding company Subsidiary 100 Winslow Three Limited Cayman Islands Support services Subsidiary 100 Winslow Four Cayman Islands Support services Subsidiary 100 TSE Gibraltar LP Gibraltar Bookmaking Subsidiary 100 TSE Data Processing Limited Ireland Data centre Subsidiary 100 Polco Limited Malta Intellectual property licensor Subsidiary 100 Betfair Games Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair Casino Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair Counterparty Services Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair Entertainment Limited Malta Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair International Plc.
Malta Bookmaking Subsidiary 100 Betfair Marketing Limited Malta Marketing activities Subsidiary 100 Betfair Holding Malta Limited Malta Holding company Subsidiary 100 Betfair Poker Holdings Limited Malta Holding company Subsidiary 100 Betfair Italia S. R. L. Italy Bookmaking Subsidiary 100 TSE Holdings Hong Kong Limited Hong Kong Holding company Subsidiary 100 TSE Beijing Management Consulting Co Limited China Support services Subsidiary 100 TSE Development Romania S. R. L. Romania R&D activities Subsidiary 100 TSE Services Limited Gibraltar Support services Subsidiary 100 TSE Marketing Espaa Spain Marketing activities Subsidiary 100 The Rebate Company LLC USA Online gaming Subsidiary 100 TSE US Holdings Inc USA Holding company Subsidiary 100 TSE US LLC USA R&D activities Subsidiary 100 ODS Holdings LLC USA Holding company Subsidiary 100 ODS Technologies LP USA Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Betfair US LLC USA Online gaming Subsidiary 100 Tradefair Spreads Limited England Spread Betting services Subsidiary 99.98 London Multi Asset Exchange Holdings Limited England Holding company Subsidiary99.98 Betfair Pty Limited Australia Bookmaking Joint venture 50 Betfair Development Pty Limited Australia Intellectual property licensor Joint venture 50 Betfair Australasia Pty Limited Australia Holding company Joint venture 50 TSED Unipessoal LDA Portugal R&D activities Subsidiary 100 The Sporting Exchange Limited is held directly by Betfair Group plc.
All other subsidiaries are held indirectly.
Other direct holdings of the Group and Company have been excluded in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 s410, as they are not deemed to be significant to these accounts.
A full list of the Group and Company subsidiaries will be included in the next annual return.
84 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The interest in the joint ventures of the Group is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Share of net liabilities At the beginning of the year 1.7 6.1 Share of operating profit 1.1 4.2 Share of interest receivable 0.3 0.1 Contribution of cash into joint venture 0.1 Share of change in equity 0.1 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 At the end of the year 0.3 1.7 Goodwill At the beginning of the year 0.4 0.4 At the end of the year 0.4 0.4 Loan At the beginning of the year 7.5 7.7 Foreign exchange differences 0.3 0.2 At the end of the year 7.8 7.5 Net book value At the beginning of the year 6.2 2.0 At the end of the year 7.9 6.2 1.9m of the share of the operating profit of Betfair Australasia Pty Limited in the year ended 30 April 2012 comprises a one-off gain of 2.9m due to a settlement of historic tax matters related to Goods and Services Tax GST which is partially offset by a one-off legal fee of 1.0m accrued to cover fees relating to an ongoing legal case.
The table below presents the summary aggregated financial information of the Groups joint venture Betfair Australasia Pty Limited at 100%.
2013 2012 m m Current assets 19.5 13.9 Non-current assets 6.6 9.2 Current liabilities 2.7 22.0 Revenue 36.0 31.9 Expenses 36.8 26.2 13 Available-for-sale financial asset At 30 April 2013, the available-for-sale financial assets comprised the Groups 8.9% fully diluted holdings of 9.9% non-controlling interest in Featurespace Limited 0.1m and non-controlling interest in LMAX Limited of 33% 1.2m.
On 20 November 2012 the Group sold its shares held in Kabam for $30m 18.8m.
2013 2012 m m At 1 May 2.1 2.1 Disposals 2.0 Reclassification of remaining shares held in LMAX 1.2 At 30 April 1.3 2.1 corporate.
com investor-relations annual-reports 85 Notes continued 14 Deferred tax assets and liabilities Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Liabilities Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 6.3 4.2 6.3 4.2 Intangible assets 1.6 4.3 14.0 4.3 12.4 Equity-settled share-based payments 1.2 3.6 1.2 3.6 and associated costs Value of tax loss carry-forwards 1.3 1.3 Other 1.9 1.3 1.9 1.3 Deferred tax assets liabilities 9.4 12.0 4.3 14.0 5.1 2.0 The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of losses of 12.3m 2012: 11.7m, unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of depreciation in excess of capital allowances of 1.0m 2012: 0.9m, unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect of share-based payments of 1.9m 2012: nil and unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of intangible assets of 0.5m 2012: nil.
These have not been recognised on the basis that there is insufficient certainty of there being future taxable profits in those jurisdictions.
Movements in deferred tax are as follows: Property, Tax value of plant and Intangible Share-based loss carryequipment assets payments forwards Other Total m m m m m m Balance at 1 May 2011 3.6 8.9 5.4 1.4 2.1 3.6 Recognised in income statement 0.5 3.5 0.4 0.1 0.7 4.2 Foreign exchange differences Recognised in equity 1.4 1.4 Balance at 30 April 2012 4.1 12.4 3.6 1.3 1.4 2.0 Adjustment in respect of disposal 0.3 0.1 0.4 of discontinued operations Recognised in income statement 2.58.2 1.5 1.3 0.58.4 Foreign exchange differences Recognised in equity 0.9 0.9 Balance at 30 April 2013 6.3 4.3 1.2 1.9 5.1 15 Trade and other receivables 2013 2012 m m Trade receivables 2.2 1.9 Other receivables 3.9 12.5 Prepayments and accrued income 12.6 15.2 Total 18.7 29.6 16 Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 m m Cash and cash equivalents 168.1 135.4 As at 30 April 2013, 284.1m 30 April 2012: 288.3m was held on trust in The Sporting Exchange Clients Limited, on behalf of the Groups customers and is equal to the amounts deposited into customer accounts.
The above cash and cash equivalent includes 8.9m 2012: 15.1m: 9.3m of which is related to LMAX Limited of client funds, that are not held on trust in The Sporting Exchange Clients Limited in accordance with local regulations.
These client funds that are not held on trust are matched by liabilities of an equal value as disclosed in note 17.
The cash and cash equivalent also includes an additional 5.1m of restricted cash relating to the Groups financial guarantees 2012: 8.0m.
86 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Trade and other payables 2013 2012 m m Trade payables 5.5 15.6 Other payables 22.7 25.0 Amounts owed to joint ventures 3.2 3.0 Other taxation and social security 7.3 3.9 Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 70.9 70.9 Total 109.6 118.4 Included in other payables at 30 April 2013 is an amount of 8.9m 2012: 15.1m in respect of amounts due to customers, representing deposits received and customer winnings which are not held on trust.
This is offset by an equivalent amount of client funds held, which is included in cash and cash equivalents as disclosed in note 16.
18 Provisions Redundancy Onerous provision contracts Total m m m Balance at 1 May 2012 Provision accounted for in the year 9.7 1.9 11.6 Current provisions 30 April 2013 9.7 1.9 11.6 Balance at 1 May 2012 Provision accounted for in the year 1.6 1.6 Non-current provisions 30 April 2013 1.6 1.6 The redundancy provision relates to costs incurred as part of restructuring and cost optimisation initiatives.
All affected employees will depart the Group within one year of the balance sheet date.
Onerous contracts relate to provisions made in relation to operating leases for premises that have been vacated during the course of the year as part of the restructuring.
19 Equity Share capital Ordinary shares 2013 2012 No.
As at 1 May 102,328,826 107,904,239 Issued by the Group in relation to: Exercised share options and restricted shares 1,864,890 921,983 Exercised SAYE options 27,894 8,613 Shares cancelled 6,506,009 New shares issued for cash Total fully paid, ordinary shares of 0.001 each 104,221,610 102,328,826 2013 2012 m m Allotted, called up and fully paid 104,221,610 ordinary shares of 0.001 each 30 April 2012: 102,328,826 0.1 0.1 During the year, the Group received consideration of 7.3m 30 April 2012: 1.2m for the exercise of 1,864,890 30 April 2012: 921,983 share options and restricted shares and 0.1m 30 April 2012: 0.1m for the exercise of 27,894 30 April 2012: 8,613 SAYE options, resulting in total consideration from the issue of shares of 7.4m 30 April 2012: 1.3m.
Exercise prices ranged from 0.001 to 8.00.
The Employee Benefit Trust held 2,640,497 ordinary shares in the Company as at 30 April 2013 30 April 2012: 2,458,771.
As part of the Share Buyback Programme, the Group purchased 6,506,009 shares at a total cost of 50.2m including the cost of the transaction of 0.2m during the year ended 30 April 2012.
com investor-relations annual-reports 87 Notes continued 19 Equity continued Other reserves Other reserves mainly comprise tax directly recognised in equity.
Translation reserve The foreign currency translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences on the revaluation of foreign currency entities and longterm foreign currency balances considered to be quasi-equity in nature.
Reconciliation of movement in equity 2013 2012 m m Balance at 1 May 196.1 215.6 Total comprehensive income for the year Loss profit for the year 66.3 34.0 Other comprehensive income expense Foreign exchange differences arising on consolidation 1.8 2.9 Other comprehensive income expense 1.8 2.9 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 64.5 31.1 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Issue of shares 7.4 1.3 Purchase of own shares 50.2 Purchase of own shares by the EBT 3.2 0.1 Sale of own shares by the EBT 1.0 Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 7.5 7.6 Dividends paid 11.2 9.6 Tax directly recognised in equity 0.1 0.6 Total transactions with owners 0.4 50.6 Balance at 30 April 132.0 196.1 20 Share-based payments The Group had the following share-based payment schemes in operation during the year: a Share option plans b Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option schemes c Restricted share scheme d Long-term incentive plan, Short-term incentive plan and Management incentive plan e Senior Executives Incentive Plan f Stakeholder shares scheme.
As at 30 April 2013, 3,278,704 share options and restricted shares 2012: 5,444,250 in the capital of the Group remain outstanding and are exercisable up to 30 April 2023.
In accordance with IFRS 2, the Group has recognised an expense in respect of all share-based awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at 30 April 2006.
The total expense recognised in respect of these schemes was 8.5m excluding Employers National Insurance costs for the year ended 30 April 2013 30 April 2012: 7.6m.
Employers National Insurance costs amount to 0.8m 30 April 2012: 0.5m.
The fair value of the options Share option plans and Save-As-You-Earn share option schemes is determined using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The expected volatility is based on historical volatilities of the Groups traded options.
The expected term used in the model is based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The expected dividend yield and volatility was calculated based on the historical yield and historical volatility of the Company since initial listing on the London Stock Exchange.
88 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 a Share option plans Under the Groups share option plans, options may be granted to the Directors and employees to purchase ordinary shares.
No consideration is payable on the grant of an option.
Options typically vest over a period of four years and the term of the options may not exceed ten years.
Share options are granted under a service condition.
There are no market conditions associated with the share option grants.
Options vest subject to continued employment although certain employees may be given extended vesting dates after their employment ceases.
The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year is 4.35 2012: 2.18.
The fair value of the options is expensed over the period that the options vest.
The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes pricing model for these options: Financial year options granted 2013 2003 2012 Share price at date of grant 8.06 0.40 10.00 Exercise price 0.001 8.76 0.001 10.00 Expected volatility 40.35% 32.51% 62.71% Expected term until exercised 1 4 years 1 5 years Expected dividend yield 0.8% Nil 0.8% Risk-free interest rate 0.41% 0.97% 0.35% 5.79% The weighted average fair value of the awards granted during the year ended 30 April 2013 under the share option plan at the date of grant was 5.05 2012: 4.12.
The expense recognised in the income statement excluding Employers National Insurance costs was a credit of 0.1m 2012: charge of 1.0m.
The Group provides for National Insurance contributions, where necessary, on options which were granted to certain employees on or after 6 April 1999 under its unapproved share option schemes.
The charge is based on the expected timing of future exercises of the share options and the market value of the underlying shares expected at those dates in those cases where the liability has not been passed onto the employee.
b Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option schemes The Group operates a HMRC approved SAYE share option scheme in which all UK employees and some international employees can participate.
Participants save a fixed amount of up to 250 per month for three years and are then able to use these savings to buy shares in the Group at a price fixed at a 20% discount to the market value at the start of the savings period.
There are no market conditions associated with the SAYE option grants.
The SAYE options must ordinarily be exercised within six months of completing the relevant savings period, and are satisfied through the issue of new shares.
In line with market practice, the exercise of these options is not subject to any performance condition.
com investor-relations annual-reports 89 Notes continued 20 Share-based payments continued b Save-As-You-Earn SAYE share option schemes continued Lapsed Outstanding Granted cancelled Exercised Outstanding Exercise at 1 May during during the during the at 30 April price Exercisable Financial year granted 2012 the year year year 2013 before 2009 41,768 38,568 3,200 8.00 2012 2010 57,150 34,430 22,720 8.00 2013 2012 633,677 146,439 24,694 462,544 5.68 2014 732,595 219,437 27,894 485,264 The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year is 6.13 2012: 8.00.
The fair value of the SAYE share options is expensed over the service period based on the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: Financial year options granted 2003 2012 Share price at date of grant 2.71 10.00 Exercise price 2.17 8.00 Expected volatility 40.07% 54.40% Expected term until exercised 3.25 years Expected dividend yield Nil 0.69% Risk-free interest rate 0.84% 5.08% There were no SAYE share options granted during the year ended 30 April 2013 30 April 2012: 661,201.
The weighted average fair value of the options granted in the year ended 30 April 2012 was 3.21.
The expense recognised in the income statement excluding Employers National Insurance costs was 0.9m 2012: 0.7m.
c Restricted shares schemes The Group provided a restricted shares scheme as part of its bonus plan until 2010.
In 2010, the bonus plan was revised with the introduction of the Long-term incentive plan, Short-term incentive plan and Management incentive plan.
Refer to note 20 d. Awards made under the terms of the restricted share scheme plan prior to 2010 have vested.
In January 2012, the Group modified certain outstanding share options and replaced them with restricted shares on a 3:1 basis.
These were expensed over the remaining vesting period of the originally granted share options.
A number of individuals were granted restricted shares in the period.
These have a range of vesting periods of up to three years from the first day of the award to which they relate and one third of the shares will vest each year for three years.
The weighted average exercise price for share options exercised during the year was 0.001 2012: 0.001.
The total expense recognised in the income statement related to the restricted shares excluding Employers National Insurance costs was 2.8m 2012: 0.6m.
90 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 d Long-term incentive plan, Short-term incentive plan and Management incentive plan In 2010, the Group revised the terms of the existing restricted shares scheme for the Directors, executives and senior management with the introduction of the following schemes: Long-term incentive plan LTIP which consists of share options and restricted share awards: Short-term incentive plan STIP which consists of cash and restricted share awards: and Management incentive plan MIP which consists of cash and restricted share awards.
Determining the fair value of each element is consistent with the measurement outlined above in each share-based payment category.
The level of award granted in each of the schemes is based on a mixture of the individual performance of the employee and the Group wide performance over the term of the award which is between one and three years.
Lapsed Outstanding Granted cancelled Exercised Outstanding Exercise at 1 May during during the during the at 30 April price Exercisable Scheme year 2012 the year year year 2013 before 2010 4,794 1,048 3,746 0.001 2020 2011 4,689 505 4,184 0.001 2021 2013 181,954 38,912 143,042 0.001 2023 9,483 181,954 38,912 1,553 150,972 The fair value of the share options in the LTIP scheme is expensed over the three year period that the options vest.
No grants were awarded in the current year which included option elements.
The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes pricing model for options in the previous year: Financial year options granted 2012 Share price at date of grant 8.56 Exercise price 8.56 Expected volatility 43.91% Expected term until exercised 4 years Expected dividend yield Nil Risk-free interest rate 1.97% The STIP and the MIP have cash elements which are fixed in value and are paid and expensed in the first year that the awards are issued.
There is no option given to elect to have these issued in shares.
The cash element issued is classified as a cash bonus in the income statement and not a cash settled share-based payment on the basis that the employee does not have the option to choose whether they receive cash or shares.
The restricted shares in the LTIP, STIP and MIP are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares.
The restricted shares in the LTIP scheme vest at the end of the third year.
The vesting period of the STIP and MIP restricted shares vest over the second and third year after the first years cash element is paid.
An expense of 4.3m for the options and restricted shares has been recognised excluding Employers National Insurance costs which is managements best estimate of the charge in respect of these awards for the current year 2012: 0.6m.
The cash element of the scheme has been included in the bonus cash pool for the performance year ended 30 April 2013.
The Employers National Insurance costs amounted to 0.5m 2012: 0.1m.
e Senior Executives Incentive Plan The Long-term Senior Executives Incentive Plan SEIP was approved by the Board on 16 October 2007.
The plan entailed certain senior management and Directors be granted one-off awards consisting of a cash and restricted shares element.
The scheme came into effect upon the admission of the Groups shares on the London Stock Exchange, and the cash was paid on the date of admission to the participants in the scheme.
The restricted shares were granted on the date of admission and half will vest on the first anniversary of the listing and the next half on the second anniversary of the listing subject to continued employment.
The expense recognised excluding Employers National Insurance costs was 0.6m 2012: 4.6m.
The Employers National Insurance costs amounted to 0.1m 2012: 0.3m.
com investor-relations annual-reports 91 Notes continued 20 Share-based payments continued e Senior Executives Incentive Plan continued Lapsed Outstanding Granted cancelled Exercised Outstanding Exercise at 1 May during the during the during the at 30 April price Exercisable Scheme year 2012 year year year 2013 before 2011 600,486 7,576 130,788 462,122 0.001 2021 f Stakeholder award scheme During 2011, the Group issued restricted shares and phantom shares to the employees of the Group as part of the stakeholder award scheme.
The scheme relates to the individual employees performance during the financial year ended 30 April 2010.
The restricted shares and phantom shares have a vesting period spanning from the first day of the financial year to which they relate to the vest date of 1 August 2011.
The restricted shares in the scheme are convertible into shares upon vest date and they are measured consistently with the treatment of normal restricted shares.
The phantom shares in the scheme are only convertible to cash upon the vest date and they are measured based on the market value at the date of grant 1 May 2010: 10.00.
No expense was incurred in the year ended 30 April 2013 2012: Nil.
Lapsed Outstanding Granted cancelled Exercised Outstanding Exercise at 1 May during the during the during the at 30 April price Exercisable Scheme year 2012 year year year 2013 before 2011 148,657 11,224 44,122 93,311 0.001 2020 21 Employee benefits Defined contribution plans In August 2008, the Group introduced a defined contribution pension plan available to certain employees.
The total expense shown within pension costs disclosed in note 4 relating to this plan in the current year was 2.4m 2012: 2.7m.
22 Financial instruments The carrying value of the Groups financial instruments by category together, with their fair values is analysed as follows: Carrying Fair Carrying Fair value value value value 2013 2013 2012 2012 m m m m Trade and other receivables note 15 6.1 6.1 14.4 14.4 Cash and cash equivalents note 16 168.1 168.1 135.4 135.4 Derivative financial liability note 22 b 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Trade and other payables note 17 28.2 28.2 40.6 40.6 Net financial assets 145.9 145.9 109.1 109.1 a Fair values of financial instruments Trade and other receivables The fair value of trade and other receivables is valued at fair value less any provision for bad debts.
The fair value is estimated using the present value of future cash flows discounted at the market rate of interest at the reporting date if the effect is material.
Trade and other payables The fair value of trade and other payables is estimated as the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the balance sheet date if the effect is material.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments comprise Sports betting open positions.
The fair value of open Sports bets at the year end has been calculated using the latest available prices on the Groups own markets on relevant sporting events.
The fair value calculation also includes the impact of any exchange hedging activities in relation to these open positions.
Cash and cash equivalents The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is estimated as its carrying amount where the cash is repayable on demand.
Where it is not repayable on demand then the fair value is estimated at the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the balance sheet date.
92 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The table below sets out fair value measurements using the IFRS 7 fair value hierarchy: Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2013 2013 2013 2013 m m m m Available-for-sale financial asset note 13 1.3 1.3 Fair value of open bets 0.1 0.1 Net position 1.2 1.2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2012 2012 2012 2012 m m m m Available-for-sale financial asset note 13 2.1 2.1 Fair value of open bets 0.1 0.1 Net position 2.0 2.0 Categorisation within the hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the relevant asset as follows: Level 1 valued using quoted prices in active markets for identical assets Level 2 valued by reference to valuation techniques using observable inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 Level 3 valued by reference to valuation techniques using inputs that are not based on observable market data.
There have been no transfers during the year between levels 1 and 2. b Financial risk management The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
Risk management policies and procedures are reviewed regularly and monitored to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations surrounding risk management.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Liquidity risk Market risk including currency risk and interest risk: and Credit risk.
This note presents information about the Groups exposure to the above risks as well as outlining the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing financial risk and the measurement of capital.
com investor-relations annual-reports 93 Notes continued 22 Financial instruments continued Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group also spreads its cash reserves across several highly rated banks and investments to mitigate counterparty risks.
The Group performs regular cash flow projections to ensure that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses for a period of at least 90 days.
The Group has no committed lines of credit.
The Groups financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments and excluding the effect of netting agreements summarised in the table below all have contractual maturities of one year or less as at 30 April 2013.
Carrying amount 2013 2012 m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables note 17 28.2 40.6 Derivative financial liabilities Open bet liability within non-trade payables and accrued expenses 0.1 0.1 Total 28.3 40.7 The maturity analysis of the trade and other payables is as follows: 30 April 2013 0-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91 days Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 26.7 0.7 0.3 0.5 28.2 30 April 2012 0-30 days 31-60 days 61-90 days 91 days Total m m m m m Trade and other payables 38.2 2.0 0.2 0.2 40.6 Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
The management of market risk is performed by the Group under the supervision of the Corporate Risk Committee and according to the guidelines approved by them.
The Group will utilise hedges where there is an identified requirement to manage profit or loss volatility.
Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency other than Pounds Sterling GBP.
The currencies in which these transactions primarily are denominated are US Dollars USD, Euros EUR and Australian Dollars AUD.
94 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Group does not normally hedge against these sales and purchases.
However, the Group monitors all foreign currency exposures and where appropriate may undertake currency hedging to mitigate the risk of unfavourable foreign exchange movements on specific commitments the Group enters into.
The Groups exposure to foreign currency risk is as follows.
This is based on the carrying amount for monetary financial instruments except derivatives when it is based on notional amounts: 30 April 2013 GBP EUR USD AUD Other Total m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 138.815.312.10.9 1.0168.1 Trade payables 4.0 1.4 0.1 5.5 Balance sheet exposure 134.8 13.9 12.0 0.9 1.0 162.6 30 April 2012 GBP EUR USD AUD Other Total m m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 98.016.418.12.0 0.9135.4 Trade payables 9.8 5.5 0.2 0.1 15.6 Balance sheet exposure 88.2 10.9 17.9 2.0 0.8 119.8 A 15.0% weakening of the following currencies against the Pounds Sterling at 30 April 2013 would have increased decreased equity and income statement by the amounts shown below.
This calculation assumes that the change occurred at the balance sheet date and had been applied to risk exposures existing at that date.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other exchange rates and interest rates, remain constant.
Equity Income statement 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Foreign currency EUR 0.2 1.0 2.7 2.9 USD 2.1 3.2 AUD 0.2 0.3 A 15.0% strengthening of the above currencies against Pounds Sterling at 30 April would have had the equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Interest rate risk The Group has no bank loans and therefore is not exposed to interest rate risk on its liabilities.
At the balance sheet date the Groups interestbearing financial assets were as follows: 2013 2012 m m Variable rate instruments Financial assets cash and cash equivalents 168.1 135.4 Sensitivity analysis An increase of 200 and a decrease of 200 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would have increased decreased equity and profit by the amounts shown below.
The rationale behind the 2.0% sensitivity analysis is that interest rates in the UK have been low due to the economic climate and any increase or decrease greater than 2.0% is unlikely to occur.
com investor-relations annual-reports 95 Notes continued 22 Financial instruments continued Interest rate risk continued This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant and considers the effect of financial instruments with variable interest rates.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2012.
2013 2012 m m Profit or loss Increase 3.5 3.3 Decrease 1.1 1.2 Credit risk Credit counterparty risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investments.
Group Treasury policy and objectives in relation to credit risk is to minimise the likelihood that the Group will experience financial loss due to counterparty failure and to ensure that in the event of a single loss, the failure of any single counterparty would not materially impact the financial wellbeing of the Group.
The Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only depositing surplus funds on a short-term basis.
The ring-fenced customer funds held by the Group in trust are spread across leading banking groups with the main aim of reducing risk as opposed to maximising income.
Trade receivables are assessed for risk of default by customers and terms of trade are adjusted accordingly.
Receivables are insured on risk and cost grounds.
As of 30 April 2013, the trade receivables balance was 2.2m 2012: 1.9m of which 1.4m is current and 0.8m is past due.
An amount of 0.7m 2012: 0.5m of the trade receivable balance has been provided for.
Exposure to credit risk The carrying amount of the financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure.
Therefore, the maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date was 174.2m 2012: 149.8m being the total of the carrying amount of the financial assets excluding equity investments, shown in note 22 a.
Capital management The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in note 19.
The Boards policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor and creditor confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Group currently has sufficient capital for its needs.
23 Operating leases The Group had total future minimum payments under non-cancellable operating leases as follows: 2013 2012 m m Not later than one year 6.3 6.9 Later than one year and not later than five years 14.6 19.4 Later than five years 3.5 5.1 Total 24.4 31.4 Operating lease payments represent rents payable by the Group for office properties.
These leases have varying terms, escalation charges and renewal rights.
During the year 8.7m was recognised as an expense in the income statement in respect of operating leases 2012: 8.4m.
96 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 24 Capital commitments Contracted but not provided for in the financial statements: 2013 2012 m m Capital 0.2 0.9 Marketing 3.3 6.1 Total 3.5 7.0 25 Related parties Group Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Betfair Pty Limited During the year the Group recharged the Australian joint venture, Betfair Pty Limited, the following costs: salary and related costs amounting to nil 2012: 0.1m : and operational costs amounting to 1.5m 2012: 0.9m.
During the year the Australian joint venture recharged the Group the following costs: salary and related costs amounting to 0.3m 2012: 0.5m : and operational costs amounting to 2.7m 2012: 2.0m.
The outstanding balance as at 30 April 2013 of loans receivable from the Australian joint venture is 7.8m 2012: 7.5m.
The balance is not interest bearing.
In addition to the recharges detailed above, the Group collects revenue on behalf of the joint venture and to a lesser extent the Australian joint venture collects revenue on behalf of the Group.
As at 30 April 2013, the Group owed 3.2m 2012: 3.0m to the Australian joint venture.
Featurespace Limited During the year the Group was charged 0.2m 2012: 0.5m for consultancy services by Featurespace Limited in which the Group have a non-controlling interest.
Transactions with key management personnel Key management personnel compensation, excluding the Groups Directors, is shown in the table below: 2013 2012 m m Short-term benefits 3.5 2.5 Share-based payment expense 2.7 2.2 Total 6.2 4.7 26 Dividends 2013 2012 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period Final dividend for the year ended 30 April 2012 of 7.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2011: 5.9p 7.1 6.2 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 April 2013 of 4.0p per qualifying ordinary share 2012: 3.2p 4.1 3.4 Total 11.2 9.6 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 April 2013 of 9.0p per share 2012: 7.0p.
The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
com investor-relations annual-reports 97 Notes continued 27 Disposals during the year and discontinued operations On 18 December 2012 the Group entered into a sale and purchase agreement for the sale of 67% of the shares of LMAX Limited for 2.4m.
The transaction was finalised in January 2013, on which date control of LMAX Limited passed to the acquirer.
The net assets of LMAX Limited at the date of disposal were: 2013 m Trade and other receivables 12.9 Cash and cash equivalents 26.9 Trade and other payables 31.4 Net assets disposed of 8.4 Consideration received 2.4 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 26.9 Net cash outflow 24.5 Cash and cash equivalents includes 22.7m of clients funds held matched by liabilities of an equal value in trade and other payables.
The results of the discontinued operations, which have been included in the consolidated income statement, were as follows: Year ended Period ended 30 April 18 January 2013 2012 m m Revenue 4.1 1.2 Cost of sales 2.2 0.6 Gross profit 1.9 0.6 Administrative expenses 17.4 13.0 Operating loss 15.5 12.4 EBITDA 5.5 8.3 Impairment loss recognised 7.7 Depreciation and amortisation 2.3 4.1 Operating loss 15.5 12.4 Net finance income expense 0.1 0.2 Loss before tax 15.4 12.6 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 5.3 Tax 0.4 Net loss attributable to discontinued operations 21.1 12.6 During the year, LMAX Limited contributed 5.2m 2012: 2.3m to the Groups net operating cash flows and paid 2.8m 2012: 2.9m in respect of investing activities.
98 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
