SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registered Office Betfair Group plc Waterfront Hammersmith Embankment Chancellors Road access on Winslow Road London W6 9HP 44 0 20 8834 8000 corporate.
com Registrars Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS13 8AE 0870 707 4010 www.
com Please contact Computershare quoting your shareholder reference number on your share certificate or dividend tax voucher for advice regarding any change of name or address, transfer of shares or loss destruction of share certificate.
Computershare will also be able to respond to general queries such as the number of shares you hold or payment details for dividends.
Amalgamation of accounts Shareholders who receive duplicate sets of Company mailings owing to multiple accounts in their name should contact Computershare to request their accounts be amalgamated.
Dividend mandates We encourage shareholders to have their dividends paid directly into their bank account.
This method of payment removes the risk of delay or loss of dividend cheques in the post and ensures your account is credited on the due date.
Tax vouchers are provided by Computershare.
To take advantage of this convenient method of payment contact Computershare or visit www-uk.
Electronic communications Using the Companys corporate website as a method of communicating with shareholders the Company is able to distribute messages to shareholders instantaneously.
Receiving the Companys communications electronically allows the Company to communicate with its shareholders in a more environmentally friendly, cost effective and timely manner.
You can to elect to receive email notifications by contacting Computershare or by registering with Investor Centre at www-uk.
Scams and frauds Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited communications, such as: offers to buy or sell shares at a discount: opportunities to receive free company reports: free financial advice: and chances to invest in carbon credit trading schemes.
If you receive any unsolicited advice, make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and check that they are appropriately authorised by the FCA by visiting www.
More information on protecting your investment can be found at www.
Share dealing If you wish to buy or sell shares in the Company you can do this by using the services of a stockbroker or high street bank or through telephone or online dealing services.
The Companys Registrar, Computershare offer a telephone and online service, further information can be found at www.
com sharedealingcentre or by calling 0870 703 0084 Mon-Fri.
Please note the following when contacting Computershare: you will need to have your shareholder reference number available: and if your shareholding is in certificated form you will need to present your valid share certificate at the time of sale.
Please note the price of shares can go down as well as up, and you are not guaranteed to get back the amount you originally invested.
If you are in any doubt you should contact an independent financial adviser.
Details of stockbrokers in the UK can be found via the Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers APCIMS on 44 0 20 7448 7100 or at www.
ShareGift If you have only a small number of shares which would cost more for you to sell than they are worth, you may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift Registered Charity 1052686 which specialises in accepting such shares as donations.
The relevant stock transfer form may be obtained from the Companys registrar Computershare.
There are no implications for Capital Gains Tax purposes no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity and it is also possible to obtain income tax relief.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained on 020 7930 3737 or from www.
