106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 58 Notice of the Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Twenty-third Annual General Meeting of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc will be held at 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh on 27 February 2014 at 6.30 p. m. for the following purposes: To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 be adopted.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2013 be approved.
That the Directors Remuneration Policy be approved.
To declare a final dividend of 16.15p per share.
That Prof P R Marsh be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr DJJeffcoat be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr R A Rae be re-elected as a Director.
That Mr S PTrickett be re-elected as a Director.
That Mrs JLe Blan be elected as a Director.
That Mrs P M Hay-Plumb be elected as a Director.
That Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as Auditor.
That the Directors be authorised to fix the remuneration of the Auditor for the year to 31 December 2014.
That the Company continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust as defined by Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Special Resolution: 14.
That pursuant to and in accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company be and it is hereby authorised in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Shares, provided that: a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14,297,880 or if less, 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company on the date on which this resolution is passed : b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be 1p being the nominal value of a Share: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share shall be the higher of i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out: d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 31 July 2015 or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015, save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under such authority which will or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners LLP, Secretaries 28 January 2014 58 Annual General Meeting 2013 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 59 Notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting 1.
Attending the Annual General Meeting in person A member who is entitled to attend and vote at this meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and, vote on his her behalf.
Such a proxy need not also be a member of the Company.
Appointment of Proxy A Form of Proxy for use by Shareholders is enclosed.
Completion of the Form of Proxy will not prevent a Shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in person.
To register your vote electronically, log on to the registrars web site at www.
com and follow the instructions on screen.
You will require your investor code.
CREST users should note they can lodge their proxy votes for the meeting through the CREST proxy voting system.
For further instructions users should refer to the CREST User Manual.
Any CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and other CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar ID R055 no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
You may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
To appoint more than one proxy, please contact the Registrars of the Company.
If you submit more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
To be valid the proxy form must be completed and lodged, together with the power of attorney or any authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially certified copy of such power of authority, with the Registrars of the Company no later than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the time set for the meeting, or any adjourned meeting.
Entitlement to attend and vote To be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of determining the votes they may cast, members must be registered in the Companys register of members at 6.30 p. m. on 25 February 2014 or, if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, at 6.30 p. m. on the day two days excluding non working days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant deadline will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 59 106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 60 Notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting 4.
Questions and Answers Pursuant to section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must provide an answer to any question which is put by a member attending the AGM relating to the business being considered, except if a response would not be in the interest of the Company or for the good order of the meeting or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
The Company may however elect to provide an answer to a question, within a reasonable period of days after the conclusion of the AGM.
Total Voting Rights As at 28 January 2014, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, the Company had 95,382,792 Ordinary Shares in issue with a total of 95,382,792 voting rights.
Shareholder disclosure obligations Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Information on the Companys website In accordance with section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Managers website www.
Nominated Persons Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between such person and the shareholder nominating such person, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise such right, the Nominated Person may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the registered shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
Audit concerns The members of the Company may require the Company without payment to publish, on its website, a statement which is also to be passed to the auditor setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be required to do so once it has received such requests from either members representing at least 5% of the total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in writing and must state your full name and address and be sent to the registered address of the Company.
Documents available for inspection The Directors letters of appointment and a copy of the articles of association of the Company will be available for inspection for 15 minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during the meeting.
60 Annual General Meeting 2013 106297 ASCoT Cov PRINT 106297 ASCOT Cov V12 28 01 2014 15:20 Page ibc1 Corporate Information Investment Managers and Secretaries Bankers Aberforth Partners LLP The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 14 Melville Street 36 St Andrew Square Edinburgh EH3 7NS Edinburgh EH2 2YB Tel: 0131 220 0733 Email: enquiries@aberforth.
co. uk Custodian The Northern Trust Company 50 Bank Street Registered Office and Company Canary Wharf London E14 5NT Number 14 Melville Street Edinburgh EH3 7NS Independent Auditor Registered in Scotland No.
126524 Deloitte LLP Saltire Court 20 Castle Terrace Registrars Edinburgh Capita Registrars Limited EH1 2DB Northern House Woodsome Park Fenay Bridge Solicitors and Sponsors Huddersfield HD8 0LA Dickson Minto W. S. Tel: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus 16 Charlotte Square network extras Edinburgh EH2 4DF Website: www.
com J. Thomson Colour Printers 106297 ASCoT Cov PRINT 106297 ASCOT Cov V12 28 01 2014 15:20 Page bc1
