106297 ASCOT Txt PRINT 106297 ASCOT Txt V12 28 01 2014 15:25 Page 36 Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are required by law to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are also required to prepare a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement.
One of the key governance requirements of a companys financial statements is for the report and accounts to be fair, balanced and understandable.
The co-ordination and review of the input into ASCoTs Annual Report and Accounts is a sizeable exercise within an exacting timetable, including the formal audit process undertaken by Deloitte LLP.
The Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom AccountingStandards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes information required by the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Annual Report is published on www.
co. uk, which is the website maintained by the Companys Managers.
The work undertaken by the Auditor does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, the Auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Declaration Each of the Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: a the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and b the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
In addition, each of the Directors considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, objective and strategy.
On behalf of the Board Professor Paul Marsh Chairman 28 January 2014 36 Governance Report 2013
