STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL OTHER INTRODUCTION REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Controlled Test and Learn: everything We continued to apply our test and learn contributed to Admiral.
I am grateful to that Admiral is now has been built from approach to our young businesses, particularly Colin Holmes for assuming the mantle of the ground up, taking measured steps those overseas.
For example, inEurope, SID and to Annette Court for taking on the to test how well we understand the Admiral Seguros in Spain launched its Chair of Remuneration.
challenge ahead and the effectiveness second brand, Qualitas Auto, to broaden Balancing endings with beginnings, I am of our solutions, and then to learn from itsmarket appeal.
In the USA, our auto delighted to welcome Jean Park to the Board.
that experience and from the experience insurer, Elephant Auto, grew its vehicle Following the AGM she will succeed Martin as of those who have tried other strategies.
baseby 34%, and we started test-marketing Chair of Risk and will join the Remuneration That is how the Admiral team has set comparenow.
com, bringing the successful Committee.
Jean has extensive knowledge about building private motor businesses European model ofinsurance price ofrisk governance and risk management in five countries, Price Comparison comparison to the USA.
Wewill progressively frameworks in an insurance context having businesses in four, and now a Household increase our investment in this business as been, until June 2013, Group Chief Risk Of cer Insurance business in the UK.
While slower justi ed by the performance of its marketing.
for Phoenix Group, the UKs largest specialist than growth by acquisition, it is much Price comparison businesses typically turn closed life and pension fund consolidator.
lower risk and enables one to construct, pro table much earlier than insurance in all respects, the platform one wants businesses as they have lower xed overheads.
2013 was the year for an external review forthe future LeLynx, our French Price Comparison business ofour Board and committee effectiveness, returned a pro t in 2013, its third full year of following two successive years of internal Low Cost: the results speak for themselves operation, and Rastreator has been pro table review.
Overall, the review found that the an expense ratio in our established UK since 2011, itssecond full year.
Board had continued to work very effectively business of 15%, almost half the market in relation to most of the required dimensions average.
Cost consciousness has to be We have also been encouraged by our launch and that good progress had been achieved engrained to be effective, a core part of Household Insurance in the UK and the in many of theareas identi ed for action in ofthe way in which we do things.
It is potential this demonstrates.
Admirals the last independent review at the end of everyones responsibility, not just that overall result is, and will for some time 2010, inparticular in the areas of succession ofthe Finance team remain, inevitably dominated by our UK Car planning and risk management on which Low Capital Employed: probably because Insurance business and, therefore, by the Icommented at the time.
With a new Chair everyone at Admiral is, or becomes, a UKprivate motor insurance cycle.
And it is of Risk and a newly appointed Director of Risk, shareholder, we regard our shareholders equally inevitable in a cyclical industry that the review recognised the extent of change money as our own, seeking to use it as there will be periods when pro t growth that would take place within risk governance ef ciently as we can.
Hence our model ismore muted, derived from a balance and the role of the Group Risk Committee based on reinsurance relationships between lower prices and consequently inexercising effective oversight during this underpinned by strong underwriting lower volume growth and the positive process.
It also focused on the sustained results, with Admiral itself only providing development of prior years claims.
need for effective succession planning to look the capital backing for a minority of its So it was in 2013, with Group pre-tax pro ts well ahead of the time Directors need or business.
Hence our commitment to give up 7% at 370 million.
Taken together with our plan to step down.
It recognised that there back to shareholders whatever surplus capital-ef cient model this made possible are practical challenges of a larger Board we do not need to support our current full year dividends of 99.5 pence per share, resulting from the policy of providing a business.
The result in 2013 a 58% 10% higher than last year.
Whilst the level of reasonably long period of overlap to maintain return on equity and a 95% pay-out ratio dividend is something we reassess regularly, the continuity of Board process and the giving rise to a 8% dividend yield we continue to believe it is right for Admiral strength of personal interaction which Low Risk: Admiral has always sought to toretain the exibility derived from the underlies the effectiveness of the Board as protect its downside characterised by distinction between a normal dividend based ateam.
In addition to our Directors we also our reinsurance model: an approach to on a 45% pay-out ratio, this year amounting have three senior managers as permanent claims reserving that is prudent in the early to 46.9 pence per share, and the special contributors to our Board process as part stages and releases only when justi ed dividend we are able to afford because of oftheir personal development.
by experience: an organic growth strategy: our low capital model.
In 2013 this special a test and learn approach of taking dividend again exceeded the normal dividend Thank You measured steps before investing further: at 52.6 pence per share, representing our May I start by thanking our customers both for sticking to what we understand well: available surplus, after taking into account their business and for all the feedback we get anda conservative approach to our required solvency, and a margin from them as to how we can improve what we investment management forcontingencies.
Then our shareholders for their continued It is the sum of these elements that gives me support and the time many of them take to con dence in Admirals sustained competitive Our Board understand our business and its drivers.
success across the insurance cycle.
In 2013, We say goodbye at the forthcoming Annual Above all, may I thank our people our staff, as in 2012, the cycle was not at the right point General Meeting AGM to John Sussens, ourmanagement team, and our Board for tojustify growth.
Market rates fell again last our Senior Independent Director SID and everything they do to build such a successful, year, probably by around 13%.
It made no Chair of Remuneration, and Martin Jackson, and sustainably different, business.
sense to chase the market down, particularly our Chair of Risk.
Both joined the Board in for a player such as Admiral that has a 2004 in anticipation of our otation and are, signi cant combined ratio advantage over therefore, at the end of their nine year term, the market as a whole and can, therefore, beyond which they are no longer regarded afford to raise rates less quickly than the as independent under the UK Corporate Alastair Lyons market when the cycle turns up.
Both will be much Chairman in the UK was to hold our book at its existing missed for their wise counsel, energy and 4 March 2014 level, recognising that this would result in commitment to our business, and their afall in UK Car Insurance turnover.
I thank them on behalf of the same time, our claims results were excellent, Board and our shareholders for all they have Read more about our supporting signi cant reserve releases from strategic priorities: prior years.
pages 12 to 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Admiral Group plc 05 x ADM ar13 front.
