146 Shareholder information BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 PreSentation of non-GaaP meaSUreS BG Group publishes certain additional that continue to represent economic hedges, operating profit and earnings, including information in a non-statutory format in aredisclosed separately as disposals, andexcluding the results of joint ventures order to provide readers with an increased re-measurements and impairments.
andassociates, see note 1, page 98. insight into the underlying performance ofthe business.
The measures the Group BG Group also uses financial instruments, Exchange rates and prices usesare explained below.
including derivatives, to manage foreign BG Group may also disclose certain information, exchange and interest rate exposure.
These as indicated, at constant US$ UK exchange Business performance instruments are required to be recognised rates and upstream prices.
The presentation Business performance excludes discontinued atfair value or amortised cost on the balance ofresults in this manner is intended to provide operations and disposals, certain re-measurements sheet in accordance with IAS 39.
Most of these additional information to explain further and impairments see below as exclusion of these instruments have been designated either theunderlying trends in the business.
The items provides a clear and consistent presentation ashedges of foreign exchange movements disclosure re-calculates the current year profit of the underlying operating performance of associated with the Groups net investments onthe basis that the US$ UK exchange rate the Groups ongoing business.
inforeign operations, or as hedges of interest and the upstream commodity prices were rate risk.
Where these instruments represent thesame as in the previous year, providing BG Group uses commodity instruments to economic hedges but cannot be designated acomparable base in respect of these manage price exposures associated with its ashedges under IAS 39, unrealised movements twofactors.
This infair value, together with foreign exchange activity enables the Group to take advantage movements associated with the underlying Net borrowings or funds and return of commodity price movements.
It is considered borrowings and foreign exchange movements onaverage capital employed more appropriate to include both unrealised in respect of certain inter-company balances, are BG Group provides a reconciliation of net and realised gains and losses arising from recorded in the income statement and disclosed borrowings and an analysis of the amounts themark-to-market of derivatives associated separately as disposals, re-measurements included within net borrowings as this is an withthis activity in business performance.
important liquidity measure for the Group.
Disposals, certain re-measurements Realised gains and losses relating to the Return on average capital employed represents andimpairments instruments referred to above are included in profit before tax excluding disposals, BG Groups commercial arrangements for business performance.
This presentation best re-measurements and impairments plus marketing gas include the use of long-term gas reflects the underlying performance of the netinterest payable on net borrowings, sales contracts.
While the activity surrounding business since it distinguishes between the asapercentage of average capital employed.
these contracts involves the physical delivery temporary timing differences associated with Further information on these measures is of gas, certain gas sales contracts are classified re-measurements under IAS 39 rules and provided on page 143. as derivatives under the rules of International actual realised gains and losses.
Accounting Standard IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, BG Group has also separately identified profits issued bytheInternational Accounting and losses associated with the disposal of Standards Board, andare required to be non-current assets, impairments of non-current measured at fair valueat the balance sheet assets and certain other exceptional items, date.
Unrealised gains andlosses on these asthey require separate disclosure in order contracts reflect thecomparison between toprovide a clearer understanding of the current market gas prices and the actual prices results forthe period.
to be realised under the gas sales contracts, andare disclosed separately as disposals, For a reconciliation between the overall re-measurements andimpairments.
resultsand business performance, and details of disposals, re-measurements and impairments, BG Group also uses financial instruments, see note 1, page 98, note 4, page 105 and including derivatives, to manage certain price note9, page 110. exposures in respect of optimising the timing and location of its physical gas and LNG sales Joint ventures and associates commitments.
These instruments are also Under International Financial Reporting required to be measured at fair value at the Standards, the results from jointly controlled balance sheet date under IAS 39 and, where entities joint ventures and associates, practical, have been designated as formal accounted for under the equity method, are hedges.
However, IAS 39 does not always allow required to be presented net of finance costs the matching of fair values to the economically and tax on the face of the income statement.
hedged value of the related commodity, resulting Given the relevance of these businesses within in unrealised movements in fair value being BG Group, the results of joint ventures and recorded in the income statement.
These associates are presented before interest and movements in fair value, together with any tax, and after tax.
This approach provides unrealised gains and losses associated with additional information on the source of BG Groups discontinued hedge accounting relationships operating profits.
