150 Shareholder information BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF BG GROUP PLC The Annual General Meeting AGM of ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS BGGroup plc the Company will be held atthe Hilton Reading Hotel, Drake Way, Resolution 1 Resolution 9 Reading, RG2 0GQ on Thursday, 15 May 2014 To receive the Accounts and Reports of the To re-elect Chris Finlayson as a Director at11.30 am to consider and, if thought fit Directors and the auditors for the year ended oftheCompany.
pass, the resolutions set out on the following 31 December 2013. two pages the Resolutions.
Resolution 10 Resolution 2 To re-elect Andrew Gould as a Director To approve the Directors Remuneration oftheCompany.
Policyas set out on pages 66 to 70 of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for Resolution 11 theyear ended 31 December 2013, in accordance To re-elect Baroness Hogg as a Director with Section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 oftheCompany.
the Act, such Policy to take effect from the conclusion of the AGM.
Resolution 12 To re-elect Dr John Hood as a Director Resolution 3 oftheCompany.
To approve the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration as set out on pages 64 and 65, Resolution 13 and 71 to 79 of the Companys Annual Report and To re-elect Caio Koch-Weser as a Director Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013, ofthe Company.
inaccordance with Section 439 of the Act.
Resolution 14 Resolution 4 To re-elect Lim Haw-Kuang as a Director To declare a final dividend of 15.68 cents oftheCompany.
pershare in respect of the year ended 31December 2013.
The final dividend is Resolution 15 payableon30 May 2014 to holders of ordinary To re-elect Sir David Manning as a Director sharesof10 pence each in the Company ofthe Company.
ordinary shares on theregister of members atthecloseof business on 25 April 2014, Resolution 16 asrecommended bythe Directors.
To re-elect Mark Seligman as a Director oftheCompany.
Resolution 5 To elect Simon Lowth as a Director Resolution 17 oftheCompany.
To re-elect Patrick Thomas as a Director oftheCompany.
Resolution 6 To elect Pam Daley as a Director Resolution 18 oftheCompany.
To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors ofthe Company, to hold office until the Resolution 7 conclusion of the next general meeting To elect Martin Ferguson as a Director oftheCompany at which annual accounts oftheCompany.
Resolution 8 Resolution 19 To re-elect Vivienne Cox as a Director To authorise the Audit Committee of the oftheCompany.
Boardto determine the remuneration oftheauditors.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Notice of Annual General Meeting of BG Group plc 151 SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS Resolution 20 Resolution 22 a the maximum number of ordinary To authorise the Company, and all the In place of all existing authorities, to authorise shareshereby authorised to be acquired companies which are subsidiaries of the Directors, in accordance with Section 561 is 340 942 562: theCompany, in accordance with Sections of the Act, to allot equity securities within the b the maximum price exclusive of expenses 366and367 of the Act to: meaning of the Act for cash pursuant to the that may be paid for any such ordinary authority conferred by Resolution 21 and or share is the higher of: i 5% above the a make political donations to political parties toselltreasury shares as if the relevant section average middle market quotations for an orindependent election candidates up ofthe Act did not apply in respect of any such ordinary share as derived from the London toatotal aggregate amount of 15 000: allotment or sale, provided that this power Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the shallbe limited to: b make political donations to political fivebusiness days immediately preceding organisations other than political parties the day on which the share is contracted a the allotment of equity securities and or sale upto a total aggregate amount of tobe purchased: and ii an amount equal of treasury shares for cash in connection 15 000: and tothe higher of the price of the last with an offer of securities in favour of: independent trade of an ordinary share and c incur political expenditure up to a total i ordinary shareholders in proportion thehighest current independent bid for an aggregate amount of 20 000, asnearly as practicable to their existing ordinary share as derived from the London during theperiod beginning with the date holding: and Stock Exchange Trading System: and ofthe passing of this Resolution and ending ii other persons entitled to participate c the minimum price exclusive of expenses attheconclusion of the next AGM of therein, that may be paid for any such ordinary theCompany, provided that, in any event, share is 10 pence, being the nominal value thetotal aggregate amount shall not subject to such exclusions or other arrangements ofthatshare.
exceed50 000. as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements This authority shall expire at the conclusion Resolution 21 or legal or practical problems arising under ofthe next AGM of the Company, unless To authorise the Directors generally and thelaws ofany overseas territory or the previously renewed, varied or revoked by unconditionally to exercise all the powers requirements ofany regulatory body or stock theCompany in general meeting.
ofthe Company to allot ordinary shares and exchange or byvirtue of ordinary shares being togrant rights to subscribe for, or to convert represented by depositary receipts or any The Company may purchase its ordinary anysecurity into, ordinary shares Rights, other matter: and sharesunder any contract made prior to inaccordance with Section 551 of the Act, theexpiry ofsuch authority, which contract uptoan aggregate nominal amount of b the allotment otherwise than under willormay beconcluded wholly or partly 113 647 520. paragraph a of this Resolution 22 aftertheexpiry of such authority, as if uptoanaggregate nominal amount thisauthority had notexpired.
This authority shall expire at the conclusion of18 093 832. ofthe next AGM of the Company.
Resolution 24 This authority shall expire upon the expiry of the That a general meeting of the Company, The Directors shall be entitled to exercise general authority conferred by Resolution 21, save otherthan an AGM, may be called on not allthe powers of the Company to make that the Directors shall be entitled to exercise lessthan 14clear days notice.
offersoragreements before the expiry of all the powers of the Company to make offers or suchauthority which would or might require agreements before the expiry of such power, By order of the Board ordinary shares to be allotted or Rights to which would or might require equity securities begranted after such expiry and the Directors to be allotted after such expiry, andthe Directors shall be entitled to allot ordinary shares shall be entitled to allot equity securities pursuant andgrant Rights pursuant to any such offer to any such offer oragreement, as if the power oragreement as if this authority had not conferred herebyhad not expired.
All unexercised authorities previously Steve Allen granted to the Directors to allot ordinary Resolution 23 Company Secretary shares and grant Rights be and are To authorise the Directors generally and herebyrevoked.
unconditionally, in accordance with the Act, 19 March 2014 tomake market purchases within the meaning ofSection 693 4 of the Act of ordinary Registered Office: 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, shareson such terms and in such manner Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT, United Kingdom asthe Directors may from time to time Registered in England & Wales No.
3690065 determine, provided that: Shareholder information 152 Shareholder information BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ExPLANATORY NOTES This document is important and requires your thePolicyis proposed or the advisory vote on Resolutions 8 to 17: Re-election of Directors immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration All of the existing Directors covered in these about its content, you should immediately is not passed in any year subsequent to the Resolutions are standing for re-election, in line consult your stockbroker, solicitor, accountant approval of the Policy.
7.1 of the Code which states that or other professional adviser duly authorised all directors of FTSE 350 companies should under the Financial Services and Markets Resolution 3: Directors Annual Report on besubject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Remuneration Annual Remuneration Report Biographical details of all these Directors are set The Annual Remuneration Report provides out on pages 48 and 49 of the Annual Report If you have sold or transferred all of your shares details of the remuneration including share and Accounts and are available to view online in the Company, please send this document and awards paidtothe Directors during the year atwww.
com leadership all accompanying documents to the purchaser ended 31December 2013.
It also gives details or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank ofthe way in which the Company will In reviewing the recommendations of the orother agent through or to whom the sale implement itsPolicy.
Nominations Committee concerning the ortransfer was effected so that they can be re-election of Non-Executive Directors, the passed onto the person who owns the shares.
The vote on the Annual Remuneration Report Board has concluded that all Non-Executive is advisory in nature meaning that payments Directors are independent for the purposes of DIRECTORS RECOMMENDATION already made to Directors will not have to be the Code.
In addition, and following the annual It is the Directors belief that the proposed repaid in the event that the Resolution is evaluation exercise conducted during the year, Resolutions will promote the success of the notpassed.
the Board considers that each Director continues Company and are in the best interests of the to make an effective and valuable contribution Company and shareholders as a whole.
You Resolution 4: Declaration of a dividend and demonstrates commitment to the role.
areencouraged to vote in favour of all of the The Directors recommend a final dividend Further details regarding this determination Resolutions, as each Director intends to do forthe financial year ended 31 December 2013 are available on pages 62 to 63. inrespect of their own beneficial holdings.
of15.68 cents 9.51 pence per ordinary share.
Thefinal dividend will be paid on 30 May 2014 Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends 1 ExPLANATORY NOTES TO ThE RESOLUTIONS inPounds Sterling to ordinary shareholders the re-election of each of these Directors.
Resolution 1: Annual Report and Accounts and in US Dollars to American Depositary The Directors ask that shareholders receive the Holders, who were registered at the close Resolutions 18 to 19: Re-appointment Accounts of the Company for the financial year ofbusiness on 25 April 2014. andremuneration of auditors ended 31 December 2013, the Directors report The Audit Committee has recommended and the auditors report on the Accounts.
The rate of exchange used to determine tothe Board that Ernst & Young LLP be thePound Sterling amount equivalent was the re-appointed as auditors of the Company.
Resolution 2: Directors Remuneration average of the daily spot rates for the three Policy the Policy business days prior to the business day before The Directors recommend their re-appointment The Policy sets out the Companys forward the announcement of the US Dollar dividend, andseek authority for the Audit Committee to looking policy on Directors remuneration, on 4 February 2014. determine the level of the auditors remuneration.
including the relevant components and how they support the achievement of the strategic An interim dividend for the year ended Resolution 20: Political donations objectives of BG Group.
If Resolution 2 is 31December 2013 of 13.07 cents 8.51 pence The Act prohibits companies from making passed, the Policy will take effect from the per ordinary share was paid on 6 September 2013. anypolitical donations to EU political conclusion of the AGM.
The vote on the Policy organisations, independent candidates isbinding in nature meaning that, from the Resolutions 5 to 7: Election of Directors orincurring EU political expenditure unless conclusion of the AGM, in compliance with In accordance with the Companys Articles authorised by shareholders in advance.
Section 226B of the Act, the Company may ofAssociation and in line with the provisions notmake aremuneration payment or payment ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, The Company does not make, and does notintend for lossof office to a person who is, is to be, each new Director appointed to the Board to make, donations to EU political organisations orhasbeen aDirector of the Company unless issubject to election byshareholders at the orindependent election candidates, nor does thatpayment is consistent with the approved firstAGM following their appointment.
it incur any EU political expenditure.
However, Policy, or has otherwise been approved by the definitions of theseterms used in the Act are ashareholder resolution.
On 2 December 2013, Simon Lowth was very wide andas aresult this can cover activities appointed as an Executive Director and such assponsorship, subscriptions, payment A copy of the Policy is available on pages ChiefFinancial Officer and, on 1 January 2014, ofexpenses, paid leave for employees fulfilling 66to70 of the Companys Annual Report and PamDaley and Martin Ferguson were certain public duties and support for bodies Accounts and are available to view on the appointed tothe Board as Non-Executive representing the business community in Companys website.
Each is standing for election with policyreview or reform.
the full support ofthe Board and the Board In compliance with Section 439A of the Act, unanimously recommends that they are Directors seek shareholder approval on a andin line with best practice recommended elected as Directors of the Company.
precautionary basis only, to allow the Company, by theAssociation of British Insurers ABI, and all the companies which are subsidiaries theDirectors intend to seek shareholder Full biographical details of our Directors are ofthe Company during the relevant period, approval of a remuneration policy every three provided on pages 48 and 49 of the Companys tocontinue to support the community years, except in the event that a change to Annual Report and Accounts and are available andputforward its views to widerbusiness toview on the Companys website.
andGovernment interests, without running therisk of being in breach ofthe legislation.
1 Resolutions 1 to 21 are ordinary resolutions that will be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast are in favour of the Resolutions.
Resolutions 22 to 24 are special resolutions that will be passed if not less than 75% of the votes cast are in favour of the Resolutions.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Explanatory notes 153 The Board is therefore seeking authority, under a in connection with a rights issue or open Ordinary shares are held in treasury in Sections 366 and 367 of the Act, to make offer to existing shareholders in proportion accordance with Section 724 of the Act and political donations to EU political organisations to their existing holdings up to 1 136 475 207 maybe used to satisfy awards under the and independent election candidates not ordinary shares representing approximately Companys share schemes pursuant to exceeding 15 000 in total and to incur EU 1 3 of the Companys issued share capital Section727 of the Act.
Treasury shares have political expenditure not exceeding 20 000 excluding treasury shares at 19 March noentitlements to dividend payments or intotal.
2014, subject to any adjustments, such as voting rights.
Any treasury share sold becomes for fractional entitlements and overseas anordinary share and would count towards In line with best practice guidelines published shareholders, asthe Directors see fit: and theallotment thresholds disclosed.
bythe ABI, this resolution is put to shareholders b ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal annually rather than every four years as As at the date of this Notice, the total number value of 18 093 832, representing required by the Act.
For the purposes of this ofoptions outstanding over ordinary shares was approximately 5% of the Companys issued resolution, the terms political donations, 7 085 471, representing 0.21% oftheissued share capital at 19 March 2014, otherwise political organisations, independent election share capital of the Company excluding than in connection with an offer to candidate and political expenditure shall treasury shares.
If the existing authority given existingshareholders.
have the meanings given to them in Sections at the 2013 AGM and the authority now being 363 to 365 of the Act.
sought were used to theirfullest extent, The Directors confirm their intention to follow the theseoptions would represent 0.26% of provisions of the Pre-emption Groups Statement Resolution 21: Authority to allot shares theCompanys issued share capital excluding of Principles regarding cumulative usage of The Directors seek shareholder approval treasury shares.
authorities within a rolling three-year period.
toallot ordinary shares, in accordance with These principles provide that companies should Section 551 of the Act, up to a maximum Resolution 24: Notice of general meetings consult shareholders prior to issuing, other nominal amount of 113 647 520, representing The Directors seek shareholder approval than to existing shareholders, shares for cash approximately 1 3 of the Companys issued toretain the flexibility, under the provisions representing in excess of 7.5%of the share capital excluding treasury shares as at oftheAct, to hold a general meeting on Companys issued ordinary share capital the date of this Notice.
The Company is 14clear days notice other than for an AGM.
excluding treasury shares in any rolling currently holding 209 340 834 ordinary shares three-year period.
in treasury, representing 6.14% of the Companys By law the Act, the minimum notice period issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
forgeneral meetings of listed companies The authority contained in this Resolution 22 The Board has taken into consideration is21clear days, but companies may reduce willexpire upon the expiry of the general theABIguidelines and, as in previous thisperiod to 14 clear days, other than for authority conferred in Resolution 21 years, does not intend to seek shareholders annual general meetings, provided that: beingattheconclusion of the next AGM in authority to allot an additional 1 3 of issued 2015or1June 2015, whichever is the earlier.
i the Company offers facilities for all shareholders to vote by electronic Resolution 23: Authority to make market The Directors have no present intention to means:and purchases of own ordinary shares allotnew ordinary shares other than pursuant No shares were bought back under the current ii shareholder approval for holding general toemployee share plans.
The authority authority and the Directors have no present meetings on 14 clear days notice has soughtwill last until the conclusion intention to exercise the authority to purchase beenreceived by special resolution at the ofthenextAGM in 2015 or on 1 June 2015, the Companys ordinary shares.
The Directors most recent AGM.
Such a resolution was whicheveristhe earlier.
would only exercise this authority if the impact proposed and passed at last years AGM.
were to increase earnings per share and would Resolution 22: Disapplication of be of benefit to shareholders as a whole.
It is not the Directors intention to exercise pre-emptionrights thisauthority.
However, the Board wishes Further to the authority sought under The Resolution seeks authority from shareholders, topreserve the ability to consider on a Resolution 21 above, the Directors seek further under Section 701 of the Act, for the Company case-by-case basis whether the use of approval to allot ordinary shares for cash to purchase within the meaning ofSection theflexibility offered by the shorter notice within the meaning of Section 560 of 693 4 of the Act its own ordinary shares and periodis appropriate, taking into account theAct, and or to sell treasury shares, in certain specifies the maximum number ofshares that thecircumstances, including whether the circumstances, without having to offer such may be acquired 10% of the Companys issued businessof the meeting is time sensitive.
The Directors share capital excluding treasury shares and consider it desirable to have the maximum the maximum and the minimum prices at The approval will be effective until the flexibility permitted by corporate governance which they may be bought.
conclusion of the Companys next AGM.
guidelines in order to be able to respond to market developments and have no present Any ordinary shares purchased in this way will intention of exercising this authority.
becancelled, unless the Directors determine that they are to be held as treasury shares, and the In accordance with Section 570 and 573 of number of ordinary shares in issue will bereduced theAct, the Directors will be able to allot: accordingly.
Ordinary shares held intreasury will not automatically be cancelled but will not betaken into account in future calculations of earnings per share, unless they are subsequently resold or transferred out oftreasury.
Shareholder information 154 Shareholder information BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 NOTES TO ShAREhOLDERS Right to Vote The website address www.
co. uk personal member, or sponsored member, Only those holders of ordinary shares on isprovided to enable shareholders to register orhas appointed a voting service provider, theregister of members of the Company electronically their appointment of a proxy toprocure that his CREST sponsor or voting at6.00pm on 13 May 2014 or, if the meeting orproxies and voting instructions for the service provider takes such action as shall isadjourned, 6.00pm on the date which is AGM.
The Company will not accept any other benecessary to ensure that a message twodays excluding non-working days before document or information relating to proceedings istransmitted by means of the CREST system thetime fixed for the adjourned meeting, of the AGM or otherwise that may be sent byany particular time.
In this connection, ortheir duly appointed proxies, shallbe entitled byelectronic means to that address.
CREST members and, where applicable, their to attend or vote at the AGM inrespect of the CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, number of ordinary shares registered in their Electronic proxy appointment through CREST are referred, in particular, to those sections name on that date and time.
Changes to the CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy ofthe CREST Manual concerning practical register of members after that time shall be orproxies through the CREST electronic limitations of the CREST system and timings.
disregarded in determining therights of proxyappointment service may do so by using anyperson to attend or vote.
theprocedures described in the CREST Manual The Company may treat as invalid a CREST available via www.
CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out Appointing a proxy Personal Members or other CREST sponsored inRegulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or members, and those CREST members who have Securities Regulations 2001. more proxies to exercise all or any of their rights appointed a voting service provider, should to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service The return of a completed proxy form, any theAGM, provided that each proxy is appointed provider, who will be able to take the appropriate other such instrument, or any CREST Proxy toexercise the rights attached to a different action on their behalf.
Instruction, does not preclude a shareholder share or shares held by that shareholder.
attending the AGM and voting in person if Aproxy need not be a shareholder of the In order for a proxy appointment made using they wish to do so.
Company but they must be registered in CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST advance and attend the AGM to represent you.
message a CREST Proxy Instruction must Appointing a corporate representative beproperly authenticated in accordance with A shareholder that is a corporation may If you do not have a proxy form and believe Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds Euroclear authorise a person or persons to act as its that you should have one, or if you require specifications, and must contain the information representative s at the AGM.
In accordance additional forms, you should contact the required for such instruction, as described with the provisions of the Act, each such Companys registrar, Equiniti.
representative may exercise on behalf ofthecorporation the same powers as To be valid, you must register your proxy The message, regardless of whether it thecorporation could exercise if it were appointment and voting instructions by one constitutes the appointment of a proxy or anindividual member of the Company, ofthe following three methods: isanamendment to the instruction given to providedthat they do not do so in relation apreviously appointed proxy, must, in order tothesame ordinary shares.
co. uk by following tobe valid, be transmitted so as to be received the on-screen instruction and using the bythe issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.30 am Nominated person shareholder reference number printed on on13May 2014 or if the meeting is adjourned, Any person to whom this Notice is sent yourproxy card which accompanies 48hours excluding non-working days before whoisaperson nominated under Section this Notice: the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
146ofthe Act to enjoy information rights Forthis purpose, the time of receipt will aNominated Person does not, in that Return the hard copy form by post, by courier, betaken to be the time as determined by capacity, have a right to appoint a proxy, or by hand to Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer thetime stamp applied to the message by suchright only being exercisable by shareholders Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA: or theCREST Applications Host from which the ofthe Company.
However, Nominated Persons In the case of CREST members, by utilising issuers agent is able to retrieve the message may, under agreement withthe shareholder theCREST electronic proxy appointment by enquiry toCREST in the manner prescribed who nominated them, have a right to service in accordance with the procedures byCREST.
After this time any change of beappointed or to have someone else setout below.
instructions to proxies appointed through appointed as a proxy for theAGM.
CREST should be communicated to the If a proxy form is signed by an unregistered appointee through othermeans.
Total voting rights agent, the power of attorney or other authority As at the last practicable date prior to the relied on to sign it, or a copy that has been CREST members and, where applicable, their publication of this Notice, the Companys certified, must be delivered with the proxy CREST sponsors or voting service provider, issued share capital consists of 3 618 766 456 form.
In each case, the appointment must be should note that Euroclear does not make ordinary shares, carrying one vote each received by the Company no later than 11.30 am available special procedures in CREST for any and 209 340 834 treasury shares, which on 13 May 2014 or, if the meeting is adjourned, particular message.
Normal system timings do nothave voting rights.
Consequently, 48 hours excluding non-working days before and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the totalvoting rights in the Company are the time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the 3 409 425 622. responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member isaCREST BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Notes to shareholders 155 Website publication of audit concerns AT ThE 2014 AGM ThE MEETING Members satisfying the thresholds in Section 527 of the Act can require the Company to publish Voting Registration and security astatement on its website setting out Voting at the Meeting will be by poll.
Please bring the Admission Card, which is anymatter relating to: TheChairman will invite each shareholder, attached to your Proxy Form, with you if corporate representative and proxy present at youattend the AGM.
If you do not have an a the audit of the Companys Accounts theMeeting to complete a poll card indicating Admission Card, your right to attend the AGM including the auditors report and the how they wish to cast their votes in respect will be verified by the Companys registrar, conduct of the audit that aretobe laid ofeach Resolution.
In addition, the Chairman Equiniti, at the registration desk.
Please allow before the AGM: or willcast the votes for which he has been enough time for registration ahead of appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will be collected themeeting.
b any circumstances connected with an atthe endof the Meeting.
Once the results auditorof theCompany ceasing to hold have been verified by the Companys registrar, Certain items will not be permitted in the office since the previous meeting at which Equiniti, theywillbe notified to the UK Listing AGM.
This includes items of any nature with the Annual Report and Accounts were laid Authority, announced through a Regulatory potential to cause disorder and such other inaccordance with Section 437 of the Act, Information Service and will be available items as the Chairman or designated officers toview on the Companys website.
The use of that the members propose to raise at the AGM.
cameras or other recording equipment in Shareholders right to ask questions andduring the AGM is not permitted.
The Company cannot require the members All members attending the Meeting in person requesting the publication on the website to orby proxy have the right to ask questions.
Shareholder information desk pay its expenses in complying with Sections The Company will endeavour at the Meeting BG Group staff and Equiniti will be on hand 527 and 528 of the Act.
Where the Company toanswer any question relating to the business tohelp you with any queries you may have.
isrequired to place astatement on its website being conducted.
However, the Directors may under Section 527 of the Act, it must forward choose not to answer any questions: i which Additional shareholder support the statement tothe Companys auditors would interfere unduly with the preparation The AGM will be held in the Windsor Suite nolater than the time it makes its statement for the Meeting: ii which would involve ontheground floor.
The venue is fully available on thewebsite.
The business that thedisclosure of confidential information: accessible with wheelchair access via the may be dealt with at the AGM includes any iii ifthe answer has already been given on frontentrance.
statement that the Company has been awebsite in the form of an answer to a question: requiredto publish onits website.
or iv if it is undesirable in the interests of Anyone accompanying a shareholder who theCompany or the good order ofthe Meeting isinawheelchair, or otherwise in need Website that the question be answered.
ofassistance, will be admitted to the AGM.
A copy of this Notice of AGM, and other information required by Section 311A of the If you are a member who is unable to attend An induction loop will be available in Act, can be found at www.
com agm theMeeting, but have a specific question theWindsor Suite for people with youwould like to ask relating to the business hearingdifficulties.
You may not use any electronic address being conducted at the Meeting, you are provided in this Notice to communicate with invited to send the Chairman an email Directions theCompany for any purposes other than toAGM@bg-group.
com or write to him Directions to the AGM including a map those expressly stated.
Any electronic communication, including Documents available for inspection thelodgement of an electronic proxy form, AGM SChEDULE Copies of the relevant service contracts, received by the Company, or its agents, lettersof appointment and deeds of indemnity thatisfound to contain any virus will Venue ofall Directors of the Company are available notbeaccepted.
Hilton Reading Hotel, Drake Way, for inspection during normal business hours Reading, Berkshire, RG2 0GQ atthe registered office of the Company andatthe offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Timings Deringer LLP, 65Fleet Street, London EC4Y 1HT 10:00 am Doors open, registration onweekdays Saturdays, Sundays and public begins, tea and coffee holidays excluded, and will also be available available.
for inspection at the AGM from 9.00 am ontheday of the AGM until its conclusion.
10:30 am Doors to the Windsor Suite open, hosts will direct you toyour seats.
Light refreshments will be available after the meeting.
