Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 | 115 Information for shareholders Information held on the Companys Register of Members is, Incorporation by law, information to which the public may, for a proper Alliance Trust PLC is incorporated in Scotland with the purpose, have access and the Company cannot prevent any registered number 1731. person inspecting it or having copies of it for such purpose, on payment of the statutory fee.
The Companys Register of Members is held at Computershare Investor Services PLC, Leven House, 10 Lochside Place, Edinburgh Park, Edinburgh EH12 9DF.
Annual Report and Electronic Communications General Enquiries We only send paper Annual Reports to shareholders who If you have an enquiry about the Company, or wish to have asked us to do so.
All shareholders receive notices of receive a paper copy of our Annual Report, please contact our meetings and information on how to access our Annual the Company Secretary at our registered office: Report.
Shareholders can opt to receive all notifications electronically by going to www.
htm 8 West Marketgait, which will provide a link to our registrars website.
Dundee DD1 1QN Tel: 01382 321000 Taxation Fax: 01382 321185 Email: investor@alliancetrust.
co. uk If you are in any doubt about your liability to tax arising from a shareholding in the Company you should seek For security and compliance monitoring purposes professional advice.
telephone calls may be recorded.
Income Tax Investor Relations Dividends paid by the Company carry a tax credit at 10% of Our Head of Investor Relations can be contacted at our the gross dividend.
Dividends are paid net of the tax credit.
If you hold your shares in your own name, the tax voucher Our website www.
co. uk contains information which you need for your tax records will be sent to the about the Company, including daily share price and net address we have for you on the register maintained by asset value.
The Investor Relations section of the website Computershare.
The Registrar will send a consolidated tax contains the terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, voucher to members after the final dividend during the tax Nomination and Board Risk Committees.
Registrars If your dividends are received by a nominee, such as your stockbrokers nominee, you must contact that person for Our registrars are: the tax voucher.
If you invest in the Company through Computershare Investor Services PLC Alliance Trust Savings, it will automatically supply you with PO Box 82, The Pavilions, a consolidated income tax voucher for income received for Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH you in the Investment Dealing Account.
Change of address notifications and registration enquiries for Capital Gains Tax shareholdings registered in your own name should be sent to the Companys registrars at the above address.
You should For investors who purchased shares prior to 31 March also contact the registrars if you would like the dividends on 1982, the cost of those shares for capital gains tax purposes shares registered in your own name to be sent to your bank is deemed to be the price of the share on that date.
The or building society account.
You may check your holdings market value of each Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share and view other information about Alliance Trust shares on that date was 2.85 which, when adjusted for the split registered in your own name at www.
on a 10 for 1 basis on 21 June 2006, gives an equivalent value of 0.285 per share.
The market value of each Second Data Protection Alliance Trust PLC ordinary 25p share on 31 March 1982 was 2.35.
Holders of Second Alliance Trust PLC shares The Company is a data controller as defined under the received 8.7453 ordinary 2.5p shares for each 25p ordinary Data Protection Act 1998.
Information received from share they held on 20 June 2006 and are treated as though or about shareholders or investors for example from a they acquired these shares at the same time and at the same stockbroker, whether by telephone or in writing, by fax or cost as the Second Alliance Trust shares they previously held.
by any other electronic or digital means of communication This gives an equivalent value of 0.269 per share.
116 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Share investment Bogus telephone calls Alliance Trust invests primarily in equities and fixed income We have become aware of a numbers of telephone calls and aims to generate capital growth and a progressively being made to shareholders wherein the caller offers to rising dividend from its portfolio of investments.
buy the recipients shares at a price significantly above the current market price.
We suspect that these calls are bogus Alliance Trust PLC currently conducts its affairs so that its and to that end we have alerted the Financial Conduct shares can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail Authority FCA of the names of the companies involved.
investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation We are prohibited from advising shareholders on whether to to non-mainstream investment products and intends to buy or to sell shares in Alliance Trust PLC, but recommend continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
that if you wish to sell your shares you only deal with a The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which financial services firm that is authorised by the FCA.
apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
Annual General Meeting The shares in the Trust may also be suitable for institutional The 126th Annual General Meeting of the Company will be investors who seek a combination of capital and income held at 11.00am on Thursday 1 May 2014 at the Gardyne return.
Private investors should consider consulting an Theatre, Gardyne Road, Dundee DD5 1NY.
The Notice of independent financial adviser who specialises in advising Meeting, detailing the business of the meeting, is sent to on the acquisition of shares and other securities before all shareholders.
Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks and Financial calendar merits of such an investment and should have sufficient Proposed dividend payment dates for the financial year to resources to bear any loss that may result.
31 December 2014 are on or around: 30 June 2014 Risks 30 September 2014 If you wish to acquire shares in the Company, you should take professional advice as to whether an investment in our 31 December 2014 shares is suitable for you.
You should be aware that: 31 March 2015 Investment should be made for the long term.
30 June 2015 Special Dividend The price of a share will be affected by the supply and demand for it and may not fully represent the Investor forums underlying value of the assets of the Company.
The price generally stands below the net asset value of the We are pleased to announce that we will be holding two Company at a discount but it may also stand above investor presentations during 2014: it at a premium.
Your capital return will depend upon Date Venue the movement of the discount premium over the period you own the share, as well as the capital performance of 1 May 2014 Gardyne Theatre, Dundee, following the Companys own assets.
the Annual General Meeting The assets owned by the Company may have exposure 30 September 2014 Victoria Park Plaza, Victoria, London to currencies other than Sterling.
Changes in market movements and in rates of exchange may cause the Details of these and future events can be found at value of your investment to go up or down.
Past performance is not a guide to the future.
What you get back will depend on investment performance.
You may not get back the amount you invest.
