79 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Notes 1 General Information Alliance Trust PLC was incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Acts 1862-1886.
The address of the registered office is given on page 115.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are a global investment trust.
The following notes refer to the year ended 31 December 2013 and the comparatives which are in brackets for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The preparation of the financial statements necessarily requires the exercise of judgement both in application of accounting policies which are set out below and in the selection of assumptions used in the calculation of estimates.
These estimates and judgements are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors.
However, actual results may differ from these estimates.
The most significantly affected components of the financial statements and associated critical judgements are as follows: Valuation of unlisted investments Investments which are not listed or which are not frequently traded are stated at the Directors best estimate of fair value.
In arriving at their estimate, the Directors' make use of recognised valuation techniques and may take account of recent arms length transactions in the same or similar instruments.
Investments in subsidiary companies are valued in the Company's accounts at the Directors' estimate of their fair value, using the guidelines and methodologies on valuation published by the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Association.
With respect specifically to investments in private equity, whether through funds or partnerships, the Directors rely on unaudited valuations of the underlying investments as supplied by the managers of those funds or partnerships.
The Directors regularly review the principles applied by the managers to those valuations to ensure they are in compliance with the above policies.
Defined benefit scheme The estimation of the expected cash flows used in the calculation of defined benefit schemes liabilities includes a number of assumptions around mortality and inflation rates applicable to defined benefits.
More detail is given in note 25 of the financial statements.
The Directors take actuarial advice when selecting these assumptions and when selecting the discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit scheme surplus deficit.
2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements for the reasons set out on page 51.
Basis of accounting The same accounting policies, presentations and methods of computation are followed in these financial statements as were applied in the Groups last annual audited financial statements, other than as stated below.
Both the parent Company financial statements and the Group financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except that investments and investment properties are stated at fair value and office premises are revalued on a periodic basis.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies for investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in January 2003, as revised in January 2009, is consistent with the requirements of IFRS, then the Directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
The Group and the Company have prepared the financial statements under the SORP save for the matters noted below.
The Company allocates direct costs, including expenses incidental to the purchase and sale of investments and incentive awards deemed to be performance related pursuant to the SORP against capital profits.
However, the Company treatment varies with the recommendation of the SORP that either a proportion of all indirect expenditure or no indirect expenditure is allocated against capital profits.
The Company allocates indirect expenditure against revenue profits save that two thirds of the costs of bank indebtedness, an indirect cost, are allocated against capital profits save for the costs associated with seeding the fixed income bond fund which are all charged to revenue.
The allocation of the costs of bank indebtedness reflects the long term return expected from the Companys investment portfolio.
Adopted IFRSs Amendments to the following IFRSs were applicable for the year ended 31 December 2013: IAS 1 Amendments to the presentation and classification of other Comprehensive Income IFRS 7 Amendments to financial instruments disclosure relation to offsetting of financial assets and liabilities IFRS 13 Amendments to fair value measurement and disclosure IAS 19 Amendments to Employee Benefits.
The revised standard has replaced the interest cost and expected return on the defined benefit scheme assets with a net interest charge.
For the current year both the profit recognised in the income statement and the loss recognised in other comprehensive income are 28,000 lower than they would have been under the previous version of this accounting standard.
The comparatives have not been restated as the impact is not material to the overall results of the Group.
Had we restated the comparatives for 2012 under IAS 19 then the profit would have been 50,000 higher and other comprehensive income would have been 50,000 higher than we have reported.
As the Group has always recognised gains and losses immediately there has been no effect on the prior year defined benefit obligation.
