5 Corporate Governance Statement continued Insider trading 5.15 Management continued We have a Securities Dealing Group Level Document GLD that Performance evaluation for executives covers dealings by Directors and identified employees, is consistent The performance of executives and other senior employees is with the UK Model Code contained in the UK Financial Conduct reviewed on an annual basis.
For the members of the GMC, this Authority Listing Rules and complies with the ASX Listing Rule review includes their contribution, engagement and interaction requirements for a trading policy.
The Securities Dealing GLD at Board level.
The annual performance review process that we restricts dealings by Directors and identified employees in shares employ considers the performance of executives against criteria and other securities during designated prohibited periods and at designed to capture both what is achieved and how it is achieved.
any time that they are in possession of unpublished price-sensitive All performance assessments of executives consider how effective information.
As part of a regular, planned process, the Securities they have been in undertaking their role: what they have achieved Dealing GLD is reviewed every two years to ensure it remains against their specified key performance indicators: how they match current, fit for purpose and in line with our broader up to the behaviours prescribed in our leadership model and how governance framework.
those behaviours align with Our Charter values.
The assessment is therefore holistic and balances absolute achievement with the way performance has been delivered.
Progression within the Group A copy of the Securities Dealing GLD can be found is driven equally by personal leadership behaviours and capability on our website at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home to produce excellent results.
A performance evaluation as outlined above is conducted for all members of the GMC annually.
For the CEO, the performance Business Conduct Advisory Service evaluation is led by the Chairman of the Board on behalf of all We have established a Business Conduct Advisory Service so the Non-executive Directors, drawing on guidance from the that employees, contractors or members of the community can Remuneration Committee.
seek guidance or express concerns on how we work with fellow employees, governments, communities, third parties or how we 5.16 Business conduct use our Company resources.
Reports can be made anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
Arrangements are in place to Code of Business Conduct investigate such matters.
Where appropriate, investigations are We have published the Code of Business Conduct, which reflects conducted independently.
Levels of activity and support processes Our Charter values of Integrity and Respect.
It provides clear direction for the Business Conduct Advisory Service are monitored, and advice on conducting business internationally, interacting with activity reports presented to the Board.
Further information with communities, governments and business partners and general on the Business Conduct Advisory Service can be found in the workplace behaviour.
The Code of Business Conduct applies Code of Business Conduct.
to Directors and to all employees, regardless of their position Political donations or location.
Consultants and contractors are also expected We maintain a position of impartiality with respect to party politics to act in accordance with the Code of Business Conduct.
and do not make political contributions donations for political purposes to any political party, politician, elected official or candidate for public office.
We do however, contribute to the public debate The Code of Business Conduct can be found on our of policy issues that may affect the Company in the countries website at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com home aboutus in which we operate.
5.17 Diversity and inclusion at BHP Billiton Anti-corruption investigation Following requests for information in August 2009 from the Our BHP Billiton Charter and Human Resources Group Level US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, the Group Documents GLDs guide management on all aspects of human commenced an internal investigation and disclosed to relevant resource management, including diversity and inclusion.
Underpinning authorities, including the US Department of Justice DOJ, the GLDs and supporting the achievement of diversity across the evidence that it has uncovered regarding possible violations Group are principles and measurable objectives that define our of applicable anti-corruption laws involving interactions approach to diversity and our focus on creating an inclusive work with government officials.
The Board believes that critical mass is important for diversity and, in relation to gender, has set a goal of increasing the As has been publicly reported, the Australian Federal Police has number of women on the Board.
See section 5.7 for further details.
indicated that it has commenced an investigation.
The Group is Part of the Boards role is to consider and approve the Groups fully cooperating with the relevant authorities as it has since the measurable objectives for each financial year, and to oversee the US investigations commenced.
Groups progress in achieving those objectives.
Further information As part of the US process, the SEC and DOJ notified the Group is set out below.
in August 2013 of the issues they consider could form the basis Our approach to diversity and inclusion is underpinned of enforcement actions, and discussions are continuing.
by key principles, including: The issues relate primarily to matters in connection with previously a diverse workforce and an inclusive environment are necessary terminated exploration and development efforts, as well as to the delivery of our strategy that is predicated on diversification hospitality provided as part of the Companys sponsorship by commodity, geography and market: of the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
our aspiration is to have a workforce that best represents In light of the continuing nature of the investigations, it is not the communities in which our assets are located and our appropriate at this stage for BHP Billiton to predict outcomes.
employees live: actions that support our diversity objectives should be consistent BHP Billiton is fully committed to operating with integrity, and the with our established approach to talent, performance and reward: Groups policies specifically prohibit engaging in unethical conduct.
BHP Billiton has what it considers to be a world-class anti-corruption achieving an appropriate level of diversity will require structured compliance program.
programs at an early career stage that ensure the development of necessary skills and experience for leadership roles: measurable objectives in support of diversity will be transparent, achievable over a period of time and fit for purpose: and the set of measurable objectives will focus on i enabling a diverse workforce by way of removing barriers and ii establishing appropriate representation targets.
152 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Development plans were created for all high-potential female 5.17 Diversity and inclusion at BHP Billiton continued and ethnically diverse talent.
As part of this, leader-led Progress against measurable objectives mentoring relationships were successfully established.
In FY2013, we committed to three key measurable objectives Targeted sourcing strategies successfully attracted female to enhance our gender diversity profile.
A summary of those and ethnically diverse employees.
objectives and a report of our progress are set out below.
A range of different flexible work arrangements were launched Embed diversity and inclusion in the behaviours that demonstrate with positive reception from employees.
Our Charter values through Our Charter Values in Action.
Employees Employees perspectives were consulted through surveys, will be assessed on how they demonstrate Our Charter Values focus group and interviews.
Insights continue to help inform in Action as part of the annual performance review process.
areas of work in diversity and inclusion.
Achievements during this reporting period include: Continuous improvement Our Charter Values in Action are the behaviours we expect In FY2014, we will take the following steps to further enhance all employees at BHP Billiton to demonstrate.
They were our gender and diversity profile: successfully developed and launched to the organisation and are a critical part of the performance review process.
each Business, Group Function and Marketing will continue to be evaluated on progress in executing the measurable objectives Specific behaviours supporting diversity and creating a that form part of its multi-year diversity and inclusion plan: collaborative and inclusive work environment are featured in Our Charter Values in Action.
increase female representation by one in each asset and operations leadership team by end of FY2015 where the Business Employees are assessed on Our Charter Values in Action leadership team comprises less than 50 per cent females : and provided with feedback and coaching.
Performance execute the diversity and inclusion strategy and actions approved on Our Charter Values in Action is factored into performance ratings, which link to bonus remuneration.
by the GMC: Implement targeted graduate attraction initiatives, focused develop recommendations for providing childcare options and flexible work arrangements: on specific disciplines, to increase the proportion of female graduates hired year-on-year.
This objective builds on our 2011 increase the proportion of female and Indigenous graduates commitment, where we reviewed our graduate recruitment hired and retained year-on-year: and process and implemented actions to address low female maintain at least 30 per cent female participation in our representation.
The following highlights examples of work Accelerated Leadership Development Program ALDP.
executed during this reporting period to increase female Successful completion of these objectives will again be taken graduate intake representation: into account in determining bonus remuneration.
Monitoring The Australian Graduate Intake Recruitment campaign and tracking performance will continue to be undertaken as incorporated a number of new initiatives to attract female part of the Groups internal compliance requirements.
These initiatives had a specific focus on core disciplines.
Some examples are targeted digital media Progress against each years measurable objectives will continue advertising: active promotion of graduate opportunities to be disclosed in the Annual Report, along with the proportion directly with university faculties: and featuring graduate of women in our workforce, in senior management positions and opportunities for women in our marketing materials, on the Board.
There are currently two women on the Board, and the industry events and engagement activities.
proportion of women in our workforce and in senior management positions is set out in section 2.9, which also contains further As a result, female representation in the graduate program, information on diversity and our employee profile more generally.
as a percentage of intake, increased in the Australasia, North America and Asia regions.
Each Business, Group Function and Marketing will continue to be 5.18 Market disclosure evaluated on progress in executing its measurable objectives that We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of disclosure form part of its multi-year diversity plan.
These will again be taken ensuring that all investors and potential investors have the same into account in determining bonus remuneration.
Monitoring access to high-quality, relevant information in an accessible and tracking performance against diversity plans will continue and timely manner to assist them in making informed decisions.
to be undertaken as part of the Groups internal compliance The Disclosure Committee manages our compliance with market requirements.
The performance of each Business, Group Function disclosure obligations and is responsible for implementing reporting and Marketing was evaluated against its FY2013 measurable processes and controls and setting guidelines for the release of objectives, which was taken into account in determining bonus information.
As part of our commitment to continuous improvement remuneration.
The following highlights are examples of work and in line with the updated guidance on continuous disclosure that were delivered during the reporting period: that was issued by the ASX and came into effect on 1 May 2013, Specific actions were executed to increase representation our disclosure processes were reviewed and updated during the of Indigenous employees.
These included direct employment year to ensure continued alignment with best practice as it develops and the development of a long-term approach to provide them in the jurisdictions in which we are listed.
with the training and qualifications to broaden their overall employment opportunities.
Disclosure officers have been appointed in the Groups Businesses, Business leaders championed diversity and inclusion activities Group Functions and Marketing.
These officers are responsible for from their Business plans and facilitated awareness discussions identifying and providing the Disclosure Committee with material within their teams.
As champions, their involvement included information about the activities of the Business or functional areas sponsorship of a number of awareness events hosted by using disclosure guidelines developed by the Committee.
To safeguard the effective dissemination of information, we have Diversity and Inclusion Councils comprised of senior Business developed a market disclosure and communications document, leaders were constituted.
The Councils endorsed diversity and which outlines how we identify and distribute information to inclusion plans and objectives and supported the execution.
Learning sessions on unconscious bias and diversity and inclusion were delivered.
These were facilitated via specific workshops or through existing development and employee A copy of the Market Disclosure and Communications induction programs.
document is available online at w w w. bhpbilliton.
com The diversity of the successor pipeline for senior roles was home aboutus ourcompany Pages governance.
asp x. reviewed as part of the talent management process.
