7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information 10 Glossary Cut-off grade 10.1 Mining, oil and gas-related terms A nominated grade above which is defined some mineral aspect 2D of the reserve or resource.
For example, the lowest grade of Two dimensional.
mineralised material that qualifies as economic for estimating an Ore Reserve.
ECSA Engineering Council of South Africa.
Alumina Aluminium oxide Al O. Alumina is produced from bauxite 2 3 Electrowinning electrowon in the refining process.
Alumina is then converted reduced An electrochemical process in which metal is recovered by dissolving in an electrolysis cell to produce aluminium metal.
a metal within an electrolyte and plating it onto an electrode.
Ash Energy coal Inorganic material remaining after combustion.
Used as a fuel source in electrical power generation, cement manufacture and various industrial applications.
Energy coal AusIMM may also be referred to as steaming or thermal coal.
The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
Ethane Bauxite Where sold separately, is largely ethane gas that has been liquefied Chief ore of aluminium.
One tonne of ethane is approximately Beneficiation equivalent to 26.8 thousand cubic feet of gas.
The process of physically separating ore from gangue FAusIMM prior to subsequent processing of the beneficiated ore.
Fellow of the Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
Bio-leaching Field Use of naturally occurring bacteria to leach a metal from ore: An area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs for example, copper, zinc, uranium, nickel and cobalt from all grouped on or related to the same individual geological a sulphide mineral.
structural feature and or stratigraphic condition.
There may Brownfield be two or more reservoirs in a field that are separated vertically An exploration or development project located within an existing by intervening impervious strata or laterally by local geologic mineral province which can share infrastructure and management barriers, or by both.
Reservoirs that are associated by being with an existing operation.
in overlapping or adjacent fields may be treated as a single or common operational field.
The geological terms structural Coal Reserves feature and stratigraphic condition are intended to identify The same meaning as Ore Reserves, but specifically concerning coal.
localised geological features as opposed to the broader terms Coking coal of basins, trends, provinces, plays, areas-of-interest, etc.
Used in the manufacture of coke, which is used in the steelmaking per SEC Rule 4-10. process by virtue of its carbonisation properties.
Coking coal may Flotation also be referred to as metallurgical coal.
A method of selectively recovering minerals from finely ground Competent Person ore using a froth created in water by specific reagents.
In the A minerals industry professional who is a Member or Fellow flotation process, certain mineral particles are induced to float of The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy, or of the by becoming attached to bubbles of froth and the unwanted Australian Institute of Geoscientists, or of a Recognised Professional mineral particles sink.
Organisation RPO, as included in a list available on the JORC and ASX websites.
These organisations have enforceable disciplinary FPSO floating, production, storage and off take A floating vessel used by the offshore oil and gas industry for the processes, including the powers to suspend or expel a member.
A Competent Person must have a minimum of five years relevant processing of hydrocarbons and for storage of oil.
An FPSO vessel is designed to receive hydrocarbons produced from nearby platforms experience in the style of mineralisation or type of deposit under consideration and in the activity that the person is undertaking.
or subsea template, process them and store oil until it can be offloaded onto a tanker.
Grade Condensate The relative quantity, or the percentage, of metal or mineral A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in gaseous form in natural content in an orebody.
underground reservoirs, but which condense to form a liquid at atmospheric conditions.
Greenfield The development or exploration located outside the area Copper cathode Electrolytically refined copper that has been deposited on the of influence of existing mine operations infrastructure.
cathode of an electrolytic bath of acidified copper sulphate Heap leach ing solution.
The refined copper may also be produced through A process used for the recovery of metals such as copper, nickel, leaching and electrowinning.
uranium and gold from low-grade ores.
The crushed material is laid on a slightly sloping, impermeable pad and leached CQCA by uniformly trickling gravity fed a chemical solution through Central Queensland Coal Associates.
The metals are recovered from the solution.
Crude oil A mixture of hydrocarbons that exist in liquid form in natural underground reservoirs, and remain liquid at atmospheric pressure after being produced at the well head and passing through surface separating facilities.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 289 10 Glossary continued Mineral Resource 10.1 Mining, oil and gas-related terms continued A concentration or occurrence of solid material of economic Ilmenite interest in or on the Earths crust in such form, grade quality and The principle ore of titanium composed of iron, titanium and quantity that there are reasonable prospects for eventual economic.
The location, quantity, grade or quality, continuity and other geological characteristics of a Mineral Resource are known, Indicated Resource estimated or interpreted from specific geological evidence and That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, knowledge, including sampling.
JORC Code 2012. densities, shape and physical characteristics are estimated with sufficient confidence to allow the application of Modifying Factors Mineralisation in sufficient detail to support mine planning and evaluation of the Any single mineral or combination of minerals occurring in a mass, economic viability of the deposit.
or deposit, of economic interest.
Inferred Resource NAPEG That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity and grade Northwest Territories and Nunavut Association of Professional or quality are estimated on the basis of limited geological evidence Engineers and Geoscientists.
Geological evidence is sufficient to imply but not verify NGL Natural gas liquids geological and grade or quality continuity.
Natural gas liquids, which include propane, butane and ethane.
JORC Code OC OP Open-cut open-pit A set of minimum standards, recommendations and guidelines Surface working in which the working area is kept open to the sky.
for public reporting in Australasia of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves.
The guidelines are defined Ore Reserves by the Australasian Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC, The economically mineable part of a Measured and or Indicated which is sponsored by the Australian mining industry and its Mineral Resource.
It includes diluting materials and allowances professional organisations.
for losses, which may occur when the material is mined or extracted and is defined by studies at Pre-Feasibility or Feasibility level Kriging as appropriate that include application of Modifying Factors.
A geostatistical method of estimating resources based Such studies demonstrate that, at the time of reporting, extraction on a mathematical function known as a semivariogram.
Leaching Probable Ore Reserves The process by which a soluble metal can be economically The economically mineable part of an Indicated and, in some recovered from minerals in ore by dissolution.
The confidence LNG Liquefied natural gas in the Modifying Factors applying to a Probable Ore Reserve is lower Consists largely of methane that has been liquefied through than that applying to a Proved Ore Reserve.
Consideration of the chilling and pressurisation.
One tonne of LNG is approximately confidence level of the Modifying Factors is important in conversion equivalent to 45.9 thousand cubic feet of natural gas.
of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
A Probable Ore Reserve has a lower level of confidence than a Proved Ore Reserve but is of LOI Loss on ignition sufficient quality to serve as the basis for a decision on the A measure of the percentage of volatile matter liquid or gas development of the deposit.
JORC Code 2012. contained within a mineral or rock.
LOI is determined to calculate loss in mass during pyroprocessing.
Proved oil and gas reserves Those quantities of oil and gas, which, by analysis of geoscience LPG Liquefied petroleum gas and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty Consists of propane and butane and a small amount less to be economically producible from a given date forward, from than two per cent of ethane that has been liquefied through known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating pressurisation.
One tonne of LPG is approximately equivalent methods, and government regulations prior to the time at which to 11.6 barrels.
contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence MAIG indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether Member of the Australian Institute of Geoscientists.
deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation from SEC Rules 2010.
Marketable Coal Reserves Represents beneficiated or otherwise enhanced coal product Proved Ore Reserves where modifications due to mining, dilution and processing A Proved Ore Reserve represents the highest confidence category of have been considered, must be publicly reported in conjunction reserve estimate and implies a high degree of confidence in geological with, but not instead of, reports of Coal Reserves.
The basis of and grade continuity, and the consideration of the Modifying Factors.
the predicted yield to achieve Marketable Coal Reserves must The style of mineralisation or other factors could mean that Proved Ore be stated.
Reserves are not achievable in some deposits.
Implies the highest degree of geological, technical and economic MAusIMM Member of The Australasian Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
confidence in the estimate at the level of production increments used to support mine planning and production scheduling.
Measured Resource Reserve life That part of a Mineral Resource for which quantity, grade or quality, Current stated ore reserves estimate divided by the current approved densities, shape and physical characteristics are estimated with nominated production rate as at the end of the financial year.
confidence sufficient to allow the application of Modifying Factors to support detailed mine planning and final evaluation of the Run of mine product ROM economic viability of the deposit.
Product mined in the course of regular mining activities.
Metallurgical coal Rutile A broader term than coking coal, which includes all coals An ore of titanium composed of titanium and oxygen TiO.
2 used in steelmaking, such as coal used for the pulverised SACNASP coal injection process.
South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions.
290 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information ASIC Australian Securities and Investments Commission 10.1 Mining, oil and gas-related terms continued The Australian Government agency that enforces laws relating SAIMM to companies, securities, financial services and credit in order The Southern African Institute of Mining and Metallurgy.
to protect consumers, investors and creditors.
SME regd member ASX Australian Securities Exchange Registered member of the Society of Mining, Metallurgy ASX is a multi-asset class vertically integrated exchange group and Exploration.
that functions as a market operator, clearing house and payments system facilitator.
It oversees compliance with its operating rules, Solvent extraction promotes standards of corporate governance among Australias A method of separating one or more metals from a leach solution listed companies and helps educate retail investors.
by treating with a solvent that will extract the required metal, leaving the others.
The metal is recovered from the solvent Australian Tax Treaty by further treatment.
Tax Convention between Australia and the United States as to the Avoidance of Double Taxation.
SP Stockpile An accumulation of ore or mineral built up when demand slackens BHP Billiton or when the treatment plant or beneficiation equipment is incomplete Being both companies in the dual listed company structure, or temporarily unable to process the mine output: any heap of material BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
formed to create a buffer for loading or other purposes or material BHP Billiton Limited share dug and piled for future use.
A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Limited.
Spud BHP Billiton Limited shareholders Commence drilling of an oil or gas well.
The holders of BHP Billiton Limited shares.
Tailings BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share Those portions of washed or milled ore that are too poor A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by shareholders to be treated further or remain after the required metals of BHP Billiton Limited on Joint Electorate Actions.
and minerals have been extracted.
BHP Billiton Plc equalisation share TLP Tension leg platform A share that has been authorised to be issued to enable A Tension leg platform or Extended Tension Leg Platform ETLP is a distribution to be made by BHP Billiton Plc Group to the a vertically moored floating structure normally used for the offshore BHP Billiton Limited Group should this be required under production of oil or gas, and is particularly suited for water depths the terms of the DLC merger.
greater than 300 metres about 1,000 ft and less than 1,500 metres about 4,900 ft. BHP Billiton Plc 5.5 per cent preference share Shares that have the right to repayment of the amount paid up on Titanium slag the nominal value and any unpaid dividends in priority of any other Titanium slag is an upgraded white pigment that comes from class of shares in BHP Billiton Plc on a return of capital or winding up.
ilmenite and is used in the manufacture of paint, paper and plastics.
Titanium slag contains a high percentage of titanium dioxide, BHP Billiton Plc share which is used largely to produce TiO pigment.
2 A fully paid ordinary share in the capital of BHP Billiton Plc.
Total Coal Reserves BHP Billiton Plc shareholders Run of mine reserves as outputs from the mining activities.
The holders of BHP Billiton Plc shares.
Total Ore Reserves BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share Proved Ore Reserves plus Probable Ore Reserves.
A single voting share issued to facilitate joint voting by shareholders of BHP Billiton Plc on Joint Electorate Actions.
Total Resource The sum of Inferred, Indicated and Measured Resources.
Board The Board of Directors of BHP Billiton.
Zircon The chief ore of zirconium composed of zirconium, silicon Business and oxygen ZrSiO.
Refers to one of BHP Billitons Petroleum and Potash: Copper: 4 Iron Ore: Coal: Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business Groups, formed in May 2013.
Collectively, they are referred 10.2 Finance, marketing and general terms to as the Businesses.
A$ CEO Australian dollars being the currency of the Commonwealth Chief Executive Officer.
CFR Cost and freight... named port of destination API All Publishers Index The seller must pay the costs and freight necessary to bring the goods Thermal coal price index as published by Argus Media and IHS to the named port of destination, but the risk of loss of, or damage McCloskey for: Northwestern Europe CIF AmsterdamRotterdam to the goods, as well as any additional costs due to events occurring Antwerp API 2 : South Africa FOB Richards Bay API 4 : after the time the goods have been delivered on board the vessel, Australia FOB Newcastle API 6. is transferred from the seller to the buyer when the goods pass the ADR American Depositary Receipt ships rail in the port of shipment.
The CFR term requires the seller Instruments that trade on the NYSE.
to clear the goods for shipment.
ADS American Depositary Share CIP Co-Investment Plan An American Depositary Share is a share issued under a deposit Legacy employee share scheme.
agreement that has been created to permit US-resident investors to hold shares in non-US companies and trade them on the stock exchanges in the US.
One ADS is equal to two BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares.
ADSs are evidenced by American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, which are the instruments that trade on the NYSE.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 291 10 Glossary continued GAAP 10.2 Finance, marketing and general terms continued Generally accepted accounting principles.
Community investment Gearing Contributions made to support communities in which we operate or Gearing is defined as the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets.
Our contributions to community programs comprise cash, in-kind support and administration costs.
Our targeted level of GHG Greenhouse gas contribution is one per cent of pre-tax profit calculated on the average For BHP Billiton reporting purposes, these are the aggregate of the previous three years pre-tax profit.
anthropogenic carbon dioxide equivalent emissions of carbon dioxide CO, methane CH, nitrous oxide N O, hydrofluorocarbons HFCs, 2 4 2 CSG Customer Sector Group perfluorocarbons PFCs and sulphur hexafluoride SF.
6 Prior to 10 May 2013, referred to as a BHP Billiton product-based global business unit.
GIS Group Incentive Scheme A short-term incentive plan under which annual incentives are CY20XX provided through a mix of cash and employee equity.
The GIS Refers to the calendar year ending 31 December 20XX, where XX is currently applicable only to members of the GMC.
is the two-digit number of the year.
GLD Group Level Document Deferred share The documents that give effect to the mandatory requirements arising A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share issued from the BHP Billiton Operating Model as approved by the GMC.
under the rules of the GIS.
They describe the mandatory minimum performance requirements Dividend Record Date and accountabilities for definitive business obligations, processes, The date, determined by a companys board of directors, by when functions and activities across BHP Billiton.
an investor must be recorded as an owner of shares in order to qualify GMC Group Management Committee for a forthcoming dividend.
The executive management group within BHP Billiton as determined DLC by the CEO.
Its role is defined by the GMC Terms of Reference.
Group DLC merger BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc and their subsidiaries.
The Dual Listed Company merger between BHP Billiton Limited and Group Function BHP Billiton Plc on 29 June 2001.
Group Functions act as agents of the Group Management DLC structure Committee GMC.
They operate under a defined set of mandates The corporate structure resulting from the DLC merger.
that relate to: the governance of BHP Billiton: EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes.
the CEO limits established by the BHP Billiton Board: the activities necessary to improve the effectiveness of the Group.
EITI Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative An international initiative dedicated to the enhancement of IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards transparency around the payments of taxes and royalties derived Accounting standards as issued by the International Accounting from resource development.
ESOP Employee Share Ownership Plan JSE A legacy employee share plan that commenced under the jurisdiction Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
of BHP Limited prior to the formation of BHP Billiton.
JV Expected value Joint venture.
Expected value of a share incentive the average outcome weighted KMP Key Management Personnel by probability.
This measure takes into account the difficulty of Persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing achieving performance conditions and the correlation between and controlling the activities of the Group, directly or indirectly these and share price appreciation.
The valuation methodology including Executive Directors, and Non-executive Directors.
also takes into account factors such as volatility and forfeiture risk.
KPI Key Performance Indicator FOB Free on board... named port of shipment Used to measure the performance of the Group, individual The seller delivers when the goods pass the ships rail at the named businesses and executives in any one year.
This means that the buyer has to bear all costs and risks of loss of, or damage to the goods from that point.
The FOB LME term requires the seller to clear the goods for export.
This term can London Metal Exchange.
be used only for sea or inland waterway transport.
LSE FPIC Free prior informed consent London Stock Exchange.
A principle requiring that individuals and communities should be LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan informed in appropriate, accessible language about projects that A long-term incentive plan under which awards are provided in the might take place on their land.
It also guarantees that they are given form of employee equity, with a relative TSR performance hurdle that the opportunity to give or withhold their consent to a project before must be met over a five-year period before the awards vest.
is currently applicable only to members of the GMC.
FY20XX Major capital projects Refers to the financial year ending 30 June 20XX, where XX is the Projects where the investment commitment exceeds the Group two-digit number for the year.
approval threshold, or complexity or associated reputational risk or exposure necessitates review at a Group level and within the Group investment process.
292 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 7 8 9 10 11 Directors Report Legal proceedings Financial Statements Glossary Shareholder information RSS Restricted Share Scheme 10.2 Finance, marketing and general terms continued A legacy employee share scheme.
Market value SEC United States Securities and Exchange Commission The market value based on closing prices or, in instances when an United States regulatory commission that aims to protect executive exercises and sells shares, the actual sale price achieved.
investors, maintain fair, orderly and efficient markets and Marketing facilitate capital formation.
Refers to the BHP Billiton staff, processes and activities that Shareplus provide marketing services to the whole organisation.
All employee share purchase plan.
NYMEX New York Mercantile Exchange Significant environmental incident A New York physical futures exchange that trades energy A significant environmental incident is an occurrence that has commodities i. e. crude oil and natural gas and precious resulted in or had the potential to cause significant environmental metals in futures and options markets.
Our definition of significant is conservative to ensure all NYSE learnings are captured from relevant health, safety, environment New York Stock Exchange.
Such an incident is rated at level 3 or above on the BHP Billiton HSEC Consequence Severity Table which OEL Occupational exposure limit may be viewed at our website, w w w. bhpbilliton.
The concentration of a substance or agent, exposure to which, according to current knowledge, should not cause adverse health STRATE effects nor cause undue discomfort to nearly all workers.
Share Transactions Totally Electronic is a South African electronic settlement and depository system for dematerialised equities.
Occupational illness An occupational illness is an illness that occurs as a consequence TRIF Total recordable injury frequency of work-related activities or exposure.
It includes acute or chronic The sum of fatalities lost-time cases restricted work cases illnesses or diseases, which may be caused by inhalation, absorption, medical treatment cases x 1,000,000 actual hours worked.
Stated in units of per million hours worked.
We adopt the United States Government Occupational Safety and Health Administration Option guidelines for the recording and reporting of occupational injury A right to acquire a share on payment of an exercise price issued and illnesses.
TSR Total shareholder return OSHA TSR measures the return delivered to shareholders over a certain United States Government Occupational Safety and period through the change in share price and any dividends paid.
It is the measure used to compare BHP Billitons performance Performance share to that of other relevant companies under the LTIP.
A nil-priced option or a conditional right to acquire a share, subject UKLA United Kingdom Listing Authority to a Performance Hurdle, issued under the rules of the LTIP.
Term used when the UK Financial Services Authority FSA acts as the Project investment competent authority under Part VI of the UK Financial Services and Total budgeted capital expenditure on growth projects under Markets Act FSMA.
2 Major projects, Underlying EBIT for a full listing of these growth projects.
Underlying EBIT is earnings before net finance costs, taxation and PSP Performance share plan any exceptional items.
Underlying EBIT is not an IFRS measure of An employee share plan that commenced under the jurisdiction of profitability, financial performance or liquidity and may be defined BHP Limited or Billiton Plc and prior to the formation of BHP Billiton.
and used in differing ways by different entities.
Underlying EBIT Legacy share scheme.
is included in the FY2013 Consolidated Financial Statements as required by IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
We believe that Underlying Quality-of-life indicators EBIT provides useful information, but should not be considered as Measures of peoples overall wellbeing, including material wellbeing an indication of, or alternative to, Attributable profit as an indicator standard of living and non-material components such as the quality of operating performance.
of the environment, national security, personal safety, and political and economic freedoms.
Underlying EBIT margin Calculated as Underlying EBIT, excluding third party EBIT, divided by Quoted revenue net of third party product revenue.
In the context of American Depositary Shares ADS and listed investments, the term quoted means traded on the US$ relevant exchange.
The Groups reporting currency and the functional currency of the majority of its operations is the US dollar, as this is assessed REi Resource Endowment initiative to be the principal currency of the economic environments in which An initiative of the International Council on Mining and Metals they operate.
to enhance industrys socio-economic contribution to the countries and communities where organisations such as BHP Billiton operate, by WTI West Texas Intermediate better understanding the factors that either inhibit or promote social A mixture of hydrocarbons that exists in liquid phase in natural and economic development linked to large-scale mining projects.
underground reservoirs and remains liquid at atmospheric pressure after passing through surface separating facilities.
ROCE Return on capital employed Return on capital employed is calculated as earnings from Crude oil is refined to produce a wide array of petroleum products, operations, excluding exceptional items and net finance costs including heating oils: gasoline, diesel and jet fuels: lubricants: after tax, divided by average capital employed.
Average capital asphalt: ethane, propane, and butane: and many other products employed is calculated as net assets less net debt.
used for their energy or chemical content.
West Texas Intermediate refers to a crude stream produced in Texas and southern Oklahoma that serves as a reference or marker for pricing a number of other crude streams and which is traded in the domestic spot market at Cushing, Oklahoma.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 293 10 Glossary continued 10.3 Terms used in reserves and resources 10.4 Units of measure A. AI O % Mo MMbbl d 2 3 available alumina molybdenum percentage or per cent million barrels per day Ag Ni bbl d MMboe silver nickel barrels per day million barrels of oil equivalent AI O P boe MMBtu 2 3 alumina phosphorous barrels of oil equivalent 6,000 million British thermal units scf of natural gas equals 1 boe 1 scf of natural gas equals Anth Pb 1,010 Btu anthracite lead dmt dry metric tonne MMcf d Au Pc million cubic feet per day gold phosphorous in concentrate dmtu dry metric tonne unit MMcm d cpt R. SiO 2 million cubic metres per day carats per tonne reactive silica g t grams per tonne Mt Cu S million tonnes copper sulphur ha hectare Mtpa CV SCu million tonnes per annum calorific value soluble copper kcal kg kilocalories per kilogram MW Fe SiO 2 megawatt iron silica kdwt thousand deadweight tonnes psi Fe O TCu 2 3 pounds per square inch iron oxide total copper kg tonne or kg t kilograms per tonne ppm insol Th parts per million insolubles thermal coal km kilometre scf K O TiO 2 2 standard cubic feet potassium oxide titanium oxide koz kilo-ounce t Met U O 3 8 tonne metallurgical coal uranium oxide kt kilotonne TJ MgO VM terajoule magnesium oxide volatile matter ktpa kilotonnes per annum TJ d Mn Zn terajoules per day manganese zinc kV kilovolt tpa tonnes per annum m metre tpd tonnes per day Mbbl d thousand barrels per day tph tonnes per hour ML megalitre wmt wet metric tonnes mm millimetre 294 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013
