2 Information on the Company Our production operations include: 2.1 History and development United States BHP Billiton Limited formerly BHP Limited and before that Gulf of Mexico The Broken Hill Proprietary Company Limited was incorporated We operate two fields in the Gulf of Mexico Shenzi with a in 1885 and is registered in Australia with ABN 49 004 028 077.
44 per cent interest and Neptune with a 35 per cent interest BHP Billiton Plc formerly Billiton Plc was incorporated in 1996 and hold non-operating interests in three other fields Atlantis and is registered in England and Wales with registration number with a 44 per cent interest, Mad Dog with a 23.9 per cent interest, 3196209.
Successive predecessor entities to BHP Billiton Plc have and Genesis with a 4.95 per cent interest.
All the fields are located operated since 1860.
155210 kilometres offshore of Louisiana, United States.
We also Since 29 June 2001, we have operated under a Dual Listed Company own 25 per cent and 22 per cent, respectively, of the companies DLC structure.
Under the DLC structure, the two parent companies, that own and operate the Caesar oil pipeline and the Cleopatra BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc operate as a single gas pipeline.
These pipelines transport oil and gas from the Green economic entity, run by a unified Board and management team.
Canyon area, where all of our fields are located, to connecting More details of the DLC structure can be found in section 2.10 pipelines that transport product onshore.
Our oil production is of this Annual Report.
delivered to refineries along the Gulf Coast of the United States.
BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each retained their Onshore US separate corporate identities and maintained their separate stock We produce oil, NGLs and natural gas in four shale areas: Eagle Ford, exchange listings, but they are operated and managed as a single Permian, Haynesville and Fayetteville.
The Eagle Ford area has two unified economic entity, with their boards and senior executive fields, Black Hawk and Hawkville.
The Permian area consists of the management comprising the same people.
Delaware and South Midland basins.
BHP Billiton Limited has a primary listing on the Australian Securities Our combined leasehold acreage onshore in the United States is Exchange ASX in Australia.
BHP Billiton Plc has a premium listing approximately 1.5 million net acres.
Our ownership interests in those on the UK Listing Authoritys Official List and its ordinary shares leases range from less than one per cent to 100 per cent.
At 30 June are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange LSE in the 2013, we held an interest in approximately 7,200 gross wells and United Kingdom and a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock approximately 2,300 net wells.
We acted as joint venture operator Exchange JSE in South Africa.
In addition, BHP Billiton Limited for approximately 33 per cent of our gross wells.
Production in American Depositary Receipts ADRs and BHP Billiton Plc ADRs FY2013 was 99.2 MMboe up from 85.6 MMboe in FY2012.
trade on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the United States.
Onshore US shale areas 2.2 Business overview 2.2.
1 Petroleum and Potash Business New Mexico Oklahoma Petroleum Fayetteville Our Petroleum Business includes exploration, development, Arkansas production and marketing activities in more than 12 countries Delaware South Midland around the globe.
We have production operations in the deepwater Louisiana Gulf of Mexico, Onshore US and Australia, as well as in the Texas United Kingdom, Algeria, Trinidad and Tobago, and Pakistan.
We produce crude oil and condensate, natural gas and natural Black Hawk Haynesville gas liquids NGLs.
Our headquarters are located in Houston, Permian Texas, United States.
The Petroleum portfolio was expanded in 2011, when we made Hawkville a significant investment in the unconventional shale business Eagle Ford Liquids-focused area with the acquisition of the Fayetteville shale area in the US state of Arkansas, from Chesapeake Energy Corporation.
Later that same 1 Dry gas-focused area year, we purchased Petrohawk Energy Corporation, which held acreages in the US states of Texas and Louisiana.
Together these Shale reservoirs are characterised by low permeability, so acquisitions now form our Onshore US operations.
it is necessary to stimulate the reservoir to create additional Our overall production for FY2013 was 235.8 million barrels permeability and, therefore, the flow of liquids and gas to the of oil equivalent MMboe.
This was mainly attributable to wellbore.
Extracting oil and gas from shale involves hydraulic our US and Australian operations, which produced 129.8 MMboe fracturing.
Hydraulic fracturing is a process developed to efficiently and 79.9 MMboe, respectively, with the majority of US production access supplies of oil and natural gas locked inside dense subsurface coming from Onshore US, which produced 99.2 MMboe.
Operations rock formations, such as shale.
Hydraulic fracturing involves outside Australia and the United States delivered the remaining using water, sand and a small amount of chemicals to fracture production volumes.
Information relating to our oil and gas reserves the hydrocarbon-bearing rock formation to allow the well to is set out in section 2.13.1. produce commercial volumes.
During FY2013, we completed the sale of our 8.33 per cent interest in the East Browse Joint Venture and 20 per cent interest in the West Browse Joint Venture, located offshore Western Australia, to PetroChina International Investment Australia Pty Ltd for US$1.7 billion, inclusive of customary purchase price adjustments.
20 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
1 Petroleum and Potash Business continued Pyrenees The development phase of an onshore shale operation requires We operate three oil fields in Pyrenees, which are located offshore approximately 23 kilometres northwest of Northwest Cape, an extensive drilling and completion program, which may include associated gas compression and treatment facilities Western Australia.
We had an effective 62 per cent interest in the fields as at 30 June 2013, based on inception to date production and connecting pipelines.
Much of our development of the shale reservoirs utilises horizontal drilling, with average lateral from two permits in which we have interests of 71.43 per cent and 40 per cent, respectively.
This percentage fluctuates depending lengths between 1,200 and 1,500 metres.
We enter into service contracts with third parties to provide drilling and completion on the proportion of production from the various fields.
The project uses a Floating, Production, Storage and Off-take FPSO facility.
services at our operated sites.
At the end of FY2013, we had 40 drilling rigs in operation.
The crude oil produced is sold internationally on the spot market.
The Eagle Ford and Permian areas are focused on hydrocarbon Stybarrow liquids.
The Eagle Ford area is located in south Texas, where our We operate an oil field 50 per cent interest in Stybarrow, which leasehold acreage comprises 0.3 million net acres.
The Permian is located 55 kilometres west-northwest of Exmouth, Western area is located in west Texas, where our leasehold acreage comprises Australia.
The project uses a FPSO facility.
The crude oil produced 0.5 million net acres.
During FY2013, we continued to drill and is sold internationally on the spot market.
Production volume from the Permian Other production operations: area was 1 MMboe.
The combined production in FY2013 from our Algeria liquids-focused Eagle Ford and Permian areas was 33.4 MMboe, Our Algerian operations comprise an effective 38 per cent interest with a production mix of 42 per cent natural gas, 23 per cent NGLs in the ROD Integrated Development, which consists of six satellite and 35 per cent crude oil and condensate.
oil fields that pump oil back to a dedicated processing train and The Haynesville and Fayetteville areas are focused on natural gas.
is sold on a spot basis to international markets.
Our interest in The Haynesville area is located in northwest Louisiana and east ROD is subject to a contractual determination to ensure interest Texas, where our leasehold acreage comprises 0.2 million net acres.
from participating association leases is accurately reflected.
The Fayetteville field is located in north central Arkansas, where our Future redetermination of our interest may be possible under leasehold acreage comprises 0.4 million net acres.
and Fayetteville areas had combined production in FY2013 of United Kingdom 65.8 MMboe of natural gas.
We hold a 16 per cent non-operating interest in the Bruce oil and Oil and gas production is sold domestically in the United States, gas field in the North Sea and operate the Keith oil and gas field with connections to intrastate and interstate pipelines.
Prices for 31.83 per cent share, a subsea tie-back, which is processed via oil, NGLs and natural gas are based on US regional price indices: the Bruce platform facilities.
primarily West Texas Intermediate prices for oil, including Henry Hub prices for natural gas and Mt.
We are also the operator of Liverpool Bay, United Kingdom 46.1 per cent interest.
The integrated development consists of Australia five producing offshore oil and gas fields in the Irish Sea, located Bass Strait approximately 10 kilometres off the northwest coast of England, Together with our 5050 joint venture partner, Esso Australia the Point of Ayr onshore processing plant in North Wales and a subsidiary of ExxonMobil, we have been producing oil and gas associated infrastructure.
We deliver the Liverpool Bay gas by from Bass Strait for over 40 years, having participated in the original pipeline to E. ONs Connahs Quay power station.
The crude oil discovery of hydrocarbons in 1965.
The Bass Strait operations are produced is sold internationally on the spot market.
located between 25 and 80 kilometres off the southeastern coast Trinidad and Tobago of Australia.
We sell the majority of our Bass Strait crude oil and We operate the Greater Angostura field 45 per cent interest in the condensate production to refineries along the east coast of Australia production sharing contract, an integrated oil and gas development, under 12-month term contracts.
The contract price is based on located offshore, 40 kilometres east of Trinidad.
The crude oil is the average Dated Brent price.
Gas is piped onshore to the joint sold on a spot basis to international markets, while the gas is sold ventures Longford processing facility, from which we sell our domestically on term contracts.
share of production to domestic distributors under contracts with periodic price reviews.
Pakistan Minerva We operate the Zamzama gas project 38.5 per cent interest in Sindh province of Pakistan.
Both gas and condensate are sold We are the operator of Minerva 90 per cent interest, a gas field domestically on term contracts in accordance with the Pakistan located 11 kilometres south-southwest of Port Campbell in western Government pricing policies.
The operation consists of two subsea wells, with gas piped onshore to a processing plant.
After processing, the gas is delivered into a pipeline and sold domestically on long-term contracts.
North West Shelf We are a joint venture participant in the North West Shelf Project, located approximately 125 kilometres northwest of Dampier in Western Australia.
The North West Shelf Project was developed in phases: the domestic gas phase supplies gas to the Western Australian domestic market, mainly under long-term contracts, and a series of liquefied natural gas LNG expansion phases supplying LNG to buyers in Japan, Korea and China under a series of long-term contracts.
Gas is piped to the Karratha Gas Plant for processing.
Liquefied petroleum gas LPG, condensate and LNG are transported to market by ship, while domestic gas is transported by the Natural Gas and Pilbara Energy pipelines.
We are also a joint venture participant in four nearby oil fields.
All the North West Shelf gas and oil joint ventures are operated by Woodside.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 21 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Petroleum operations The following table contains additional details of our production operations.
This table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
1 and reserve tables see section 2.13.1.
Operation Title, leases Nominal production Facilities, use & location Product Ownership Operator or options capacity & condition United States Neptune Green Canyon 613 Offshore Oil and gas BHP Billiton 35% BHP Billiton Lease from US 50 Mbbl d oil Permanently moored Government as long as 50 MMcf d gas tension leg platform TLP Deepwater Gulf of Marathon Oil 30% oil and gas produced in Mexico 1,300m Woodside Energy 20% paying quantities Maxus US Exploration 15% Shenzi Green Canyon 653 Offshore Oil and gas BHP Billiton 44% BHP Billiton Lease from 100 Mbbl d oil Stand-alone TLP US Government as long 50 MMcf d gas Deepwater Hess Corporation 28% Genghis Khan field part as oil and gas produced Gulf of Mexico Repsol 28% of same geological structure in paying quantities 1,310m tied back to Marco Polo TLP Atlantis Green Canyon 743 Offshore Oil and gas BHP Billiton 44% BP Lease from 200 Mbbl d oil Permanently moored Deepwater US Government as long 180 MMcf d gas semi-submersible platform BP 56% Gulf of Mexico as oil and gas produced 2,155m in paying quantities Mad Dog Green Canyon 782 Offshore Oil and gas BHP Billiton 23.9% BP Lease from 80 Mbbl d oil Permanently moored Deepwater US Government as long 60 MMcf d gas integrated truss spar, BP 60.5% Gulf of Mexico as oil and gas produced facilities for simultaneous Chevron 15.6% 1,310m in paying quantities production and drilling operations Genesis Green Canyon 205 Offshore Oil and gas BHP Billiton 4.95% Chevron Lease from 55 Mbbl d oil Floating cylindrical hull spar Deepwater US Government as long 72 MMcf d gas moored to seabed with Chevron 56.67% Gulf of Mexico as oil and gas produced integrated drilling facilities ExxonMobil 38.38% approximately in paying quantities 790m Onshore US Fayetteville producing Fayetteville, Oil, condensate, BHP Billiton working BHP Billiton We currently own Average daily gas wells with associated Arkansas gas and NGL interest in leases range operated leasehold interests in production pipeline and compression from 1% to 100% approximately approximately 1.5 million during FY2013 Eagle Ford, infrastructure 33% of over net acres: South Texas BHP Billiton average net 1,313 MMcf d gas 7,200 wells working interest is Fayetteville Eagle Ford producing Haynesville, 32.1 Mbbl d oil and approximately 32% 0.4 million acres oil and gas wells and Northern Louisiana condensate associated pipeline and and east Texas Largest partners include Eagle Ford 20.9 Mbbl d NGL compression facilities Southwestern Energy, 0.3 million acres Permian, XTO, JW Energy Haynesville producing west Texas Haynesville gas wells with a third party 0.2 million acres operated pipeline network Permian Permian oil and gas wells 0.5 million acres with associated gathering Other 0.1 million acres systems, processing plant Leases associated with and compression facilities producing wells remain All production from Onshore in place as long as oil US fields is transported to and gas is produced various intrastate and in paying quantities interstate pipelines through multiple interconnects 22 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Petroleum operations continued Operation Title, leases Nominal production Facilities, use & location Product Ownership Operator or options capacity & condition Australia Bass Strait Offshore and Oil and gas BHP Billiton 50% Esso Australia 20 production licences 200 Mbbl d oil 20 producing fields with onshore Victoria and 2 retention leases 21 offshore developments Esso Australia Exxon 1,075 MMcf d gas issued by Australian 14 steel jacket platforms, Mobil subsidiary 50% 5,150 tpd LPG Government 3 subsea developments, Oil Basins Ltd 2.5% 850 tpd ethane 2 steel gravity based mono Expire between 2016 royalty interest in towers, 2 concrete gravity and end of life of field 19 production licences based platforms One production licence Onshore infrastructure: held with Santos Ltd Longford facility 3 gas plants, liquid processing facilities Interconnecting pipelines Long Island Point LPG and oil storage facilities Ethane pipeline Minerva Offshore and Gas and condensate BHP Billiton 90% BHP Billiton Production licence 150 TJ d gas 2 well completions onshore Victoria issued by Australian 600 bbl d condensate Santos BOL 10% Single flow line transports Government expires gas to onshore gas 5 years after processing facility production ceases Gas plant located approximately 4 km inland from Port Campbell North West Shelf Offshore Domestic gas, LPG, North West Shelf Project Woodside 9 production licences North Rankin A Production from North Rankin and onshore condensate, is an unincorporated JV Petroleum Ltd issued by Australian platform: and Perseus processed Western Australia Government 2,300 MMcf d gas through North Rankin A LNG BHP Billiton: 60 Mbbl d condensate platform North Rankin, 6 expire in 2022 and 8.33% of original domestic Goodwyn, 3 expire 5 years from Goodwyn A platform: Production from Goodwyn gas JV, will progressively Perseus, Angel, end of production 1,450 MMcf d gas and Searipple processed increase to 16.67% Searipple fields 110 Mbbl d condensate through Goodwyn A platform 16.67% of Incremental Angel platform: 4 subsea wells in Perseus field Pipeline Gas IPG 960 MMcf d gas tied into Goodwyn A platform domestic gas JV 50 Mbbl d condensate Production from Angel 16.67% of original LNG JV Withnell Bay gas plant: field processed through 12.5% of China LNG JV 600 MMcf d gas Angel platform 16.67% of LPG JV 5-train LNG plant: Onshore gas treatment plant Other participants: 45,000 tpd LNG at Withnell Bay processes subsidiaries of Woodside gas for domestic market Energy, Chevron, BP, Shell, 5-train LNG plant Mitsubishi Mitsui and China National Offshore Oil Corporation North West Shelf Offshore Oil BHP Billiton 16.67% Woodside 3 production licences Production: 60 Mbbl d Floating production storage Western Australia Petroleum Ltd issued by Australian Storage: 1 MMbbl and off-take FPSO unit Woodside Energy 33.34%, Government expire Wanaea, Cossack, BP, Chevron, Japan in 2014, 2018 and Lambert and Australia LNG MIMI 2033, respectively Hermes fields 16.67% each Pyrenees Offshore Oil WA-42-L permit: BHP Billiton Production licence Production: 18 subsea well completions Western Australia BHP Billiton 71.43% issued by Australian 96 Mbbl d oil 14 producers, 3 water Government expires injectors, 1 gas injector, FPSO Crosby and Stickle Apache PVG 28.57% Storage: 920 Mbbl 5 years after Ravensworth fields WA-43-L permit: production ceases BHP Billiton 40% Apache Permits 31.5% Inpex Alpha 28.5% Stybarrow Offshore Oil and gas BHP Billiton 50% BHP Billiton Production licence Production: 10 subsea well completions Western Australia issued by Australian 80 Mbbl d oil 6 producers, 3 water Woodside Energy 50% Government expires injectors, 1 gas injector Stybarrow and Storage: 900 Mbbl 5 years after Eskdale fields Gas production is reinjected production ceases BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 23 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Petroleum operations continued Operation Title, leases Nominal production Facilities, use & location Product Ownership Operator or options capacity & condition Other production operations Algeria ROD Integrated Development Onshore Berkine Oil BHP Billiton 45% interest Joint Production sharing Approximately Development and production Basin, 900 km in 401a 402a production Sonatrach ENI contract with Sonatrach 80 Mbbl d oil of 6 oil fields southeast of sharing contract entity title holder 2 largest fields ROD Algiers, Algeria ENI 55% Expires 2016 with option and SFNE extend into BHP Billiton effective 38% for two 5-year extensions neighbouring blocks interest in ROD unitised under certain conditions 403a, 403d integrated development Production through dedicated ENI 62% processing train on block 403 United Kingdom Bruce Keith Offshore Oil and gas Bruce: Keith 3 production licences 920 MMcf d gas Integrated oil and North Sea, UK BHP Billiton 16% BHP Billiton issued by UK Government gas platform BP 37% expire 2015, 2018 Bruce BP Keith developed as tie-back Total SA 43.25% and 2046 to Bruce facilities Marubeni 3.75% Keith: BHP Billiton 31.83% BP 34.84% Total SA 25% Marubeni 8.33% Liverpool Bay Offshore northwest Oil and gas BHP Billiton 46.1% BHP Billiton 3 production licences 308 MMcf d gas Integrated development England, Irish Sea issued by UK Government 70 Mbbl d oil and of 5 producing fields ENI 53.9% expire 2016, 2025 condensate Douglas and Oil treated at Douglas and 2027 Douglas West oil complex then piped to oil fields, Lennox, storage barge for export Hamilton, by tankers Hamilton North Gas processed at Douglas gas fields complex then piped by subsea pipeline to Point of Ayr gas terminal for further processing Trinidad and Tobago Greater Angostura Offshore Oil and gas BHP Billiton 45% BHP Billiton Production sharing 100 Mbbl d oil Integrated oil and gas Trinidad contract with the development: central Total SA 30% 280 MMcf d gas and Tobago Government of Trinidad processing platform Chaoyang 25% and Tobago entitles us connected to the to operate Greater Kairi-2 platform and Angostura until 2021 gas export platform with 3 satellite wellhead protector platforms and flow lines Oil pipeline from processing platform to storage and export at Guayaguayare Gas supplied to Trinidad and Tobago domestic markets Pakistan Zamzama Onshore Gas and condensate BHP Billiton 38.5% BHP Billiton 20-year development and 500 MMcf d gas 10 production wells, Sindh Province, production lease from the 3,350 bbl d condensate 4 process trains ENI Pakistan 17.75% Pakistan Government of Pakistan 2 front end compression trains PKP Exploration 9.375% expires 2022 option PKP Exploration 2 9.375% to extend 5 years Government Holdings 25% 24 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
1 Petroleum and Potash Business continued Bass Strait Kipper gas field development Initial development of the Kipper gas field in the Gippsland Basin, Capital projects located offshore Victoria, was approved by the Board in December United States 2007.
A supplemental approval of the development was granted in Shenzi Water Injection January 2011.
The first phase of the project included two new subsea The Shenzi Water Injection program includes drilling and completion wells, three new pipelines and platform modifications to supply of five water injection wells and provides facilities to inject up to 10 Mbbl d of condensate and 80 MMcf d of gas.
Facilities were 125 thousand barrels per day Mbbl d of water at 7,000 pounds completed in September 2012, and first production will commence per square inch psi.
The program was approved as part of the once the mercury removal project is complete.
This is expected to original sanctioned Shenzi project, which began production in 2009 occur in CY2016, subject to appropriate approvals for this work.
to supplement aquifer pressure for additional recovery.
To date, Preliminary engineering work to design the mercury removal Water Injector WI #1 and WI #2 have been drilled and completed.
facilities has started and will continue through CY2013, with As of 30 June 2013, drilling of WI #3 was underway and is expected a final decision expected in FY2014.
US$344 million of costs had been incurred Our share of development costs incurred through 30 June 2013 was as of 30 June 2013.
We are the operator with a 44 per cent interest US$905 million, against a budget of US$900 million.
Gas and liquids and Repsol and Hess Corporation each hold a 28 per cent interest.
will be processed via the existing Gippsland Basin Joint Venture Atlantis South Water Injection facilities.
The Kipper gas field development is comprised of the The Atlantis South Water Injection project is in the execution phase Kipper Unit Joint Venture and the Gippsland Basin Joint Venture.
and involves drilling four subsea water injectors, tying them into We own a 32.5 per cent interest in the Kipper Unit Joint Venture, the existing infrastructure and commissioning the 75 Mbbl d of with Esso Australia and Santos owning the remaining 67.5 per cent.
This water injection project mitigates We own a 50 per cent interest in the Gippsland Basin Joint Venture, natural production decline due to low aquifer pressure.
Our share with Esso Australia owning the remaining 50 per cent.
of development costs is approximately US$246 million, of which Bass Strait Turrum field development US$237 million was incurred as of 30 June 2013.
BP is the operator Further expansion of the Gippsland Basin facilities is underway and we hold a 44 per cent working interest.
following approval by the Board in July 2008 of the full field Onshore US development of the Turrum oil and gas field.
A supplemental approval BHP Billitons Onshore US drilling and development expenditure of the development was obtained in January 2011.
The project in FY2013 was US$4.8 billion, with US$3.9 billion spent in the consists of four production and two injection wells and a new liquids-focused areas of Eagle Ford and Permian, and US$0.9 billion platform, Marlin B, linked by a bridge to the existing Marlin A in the gas-focused areas of Haynesville and Fayetteville.
The Turrum field, which has a capacity of 11 Mbbl d of expenditure primarily related to drilling and completion activities oil and 200 MMcf d of gas, is located 42 kilometres from shore in at all four areas.
Our onshore drilling activity in FY2013 resulted approximately 60 metres of water.
Our share of development costs in 365 net development wells completed primarily in the Eagle is approximately US$1.4 billion, of which US$1.2 billion was incurred Ford and Permian areas.
The Turrum field development operates under the Gippsland Basin Joint Venture, in which we own a 50 per cent Of the US$4.8 billion, approximately US$500 million was spent interest, with Esso Australia owning the remaining 50 per cent.
on the installation of over 400 kilometres of pipeline infrastructure Initial production of low carbon dioxide gas through the Turrum and additional gas processing facilities, primarily in our Eagle Ford facilities occurred in June 2013.
Additional high carbon dioxide and Permian areas.
production from the Turrum reservoir will come online with Due to low US natural gas prices in FY2013, the majority of drilling completion of the Longford Gas Conditioning Plant in CY2016.
and completion activity in Onshore US was directed towards the Longford liquids-focused Eagle Ford and Permian areas to capitalise on the stronger liquid prices.
At the end of FY2013, over 80 per cent The Longford Gas Conditioning Plant LGCP Project was approved by the Board in December 2012 to enable the production of Turrum of drilling activity was focused on these areas.
reserves plus the production of Kipper and other undeveloped high Our Onshore US capital expenditure is expected to decline to carbon dioxide content hydrocarbons.
The project scope includes US$3.9 billion in FY2014, as we continue to optimise our drilling a carbon dioxide extraction facility, brownfield tie-ins, an electrical program.
This includes a forecast reduction in our operated rig upgrade and multiple supporting utilities.
Our share of development count to an average of 25 for the period.
Approximately 75 per cent costs is approximately US$520 million, of which US$26 million was of operated drilling activity will be focused on our liquids-rich incurred as of 30 June 2013.
First gas production is expected in acreage in the Eagle Ford area.
The remaining activity will occur in CY2016.
Esso Australia is the operator of LGCP, owning a 50 per cent the Haynesville area and the Permian area, where we are continuing interest and BHP Billiton owns the remaining 50 per cent.
to evaluate our most prospective acreage.
Our operated drilling North West Shelf North Rankin gas compression project program in the Fayetteville area has been temporarily suspended: however, we will continue to invest in wells operated by third The North West Shelf gas compression project was approved by parties where we see value.
the Board in March 2008 to recover remaining lower pressure gas from the North Rankin and Perseus gas fields.
The project consists Australia of a new gas compression platform, North Rankin B, capable of Macedon processing 2,500 MMcf d of gas, which will be constructed adjacent Macedon is a domestic gas development that includes a gas to the existing North Rankin A platform, 135 kilometres offshore field located offshore approximately 75 kilometres west of Onslow, from Karratha on the northwest coast of Western Australia.
The two Western Australia, and a gas processing facility onshore near platforms will be connected by a 100-metre long bridge and operate Onslow.
The project will consist of a 200 million cubic feet per day as a single facility.
We own a 16.67 per cent share in the project and MMcf d stand-alone gas plant, four subsea production wells, a our development costs are approximately US$850 million, of which 90-kilometre, 20-inch wet gas pipeline and a 67-kilometre, 20-inch US$619 million was incurred as of 30 June 2013.
First gas production sales gas pipeline.
In August 2010, the project was approved is expected later in CY2013.
This project is operated by Woodside, at an investment level of US$1.1 billion BHP Billiton share, with with an equally shared interest between Woodside, BHP Billiton, US$1.2 billion incurred as of 30 June 2013.
First gas production BP, Chevron, MIMI and Shell.
is expected in the third quarter of CY2013.
We are the operator with a 71.43 per cent interest, and Apache PVG holds the remaining 28.57 per cent interest.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 25 2 Information on the Company continued 2.2.
1 Petroleum and Potash Business continued Exploration and appraisal North West Shelf Greater Western FlankA We focus on capturing and operating large acreage positions primarily in areas that are in proven hydrocarbon basins.
While The North West Shelf Greater Western FlankA GWF-A gas project the majority of our expenditure occurs in our two principal areas was approved by the Board in November 2011 to recover gas from of activity, the Gulf of Mexico and Western Australia, we also the near field Goodwyn H and Tidepole fields.
The project consists have exploration activities in the Caribbean, Brazil, South Africa, of a five well subsea tie-back of the Goodwyn H and Tidepole fields South East Asia and India.
During FY2013, our gross expenditure to the Goodwyn A platform.
The Goodwyn A platform is located on exploration was US$675 million, of which US$522 million in 130 metres of water, approximately 130 kilometres offshore was expensed.
from Karratha on the northwest coast of Australia.
Our share of development costs is approximately US$400 million, of which Access US$107 million was incurred as of 30 June 2013.
First gas production In FY2013, we gained access to new acreage in the deepwater Gulf is expected in CY2016.
Woodside is the operator and we own a of Mexico 26 leases covering 618 square kilometres, Trinidad and 16.67 per cent share.
Tobago four deepwater blocks covering 4,111 square kilometres and India NELP IX offshore block covering 7,963 square kilometres.
Significant evaluation activities Additionally, in the fourth quarter of FY2013, we were notified that We perform development evaluation activities to determine the we were the high bidder for two blocks off the northeast Atlantic technical feasibility and commercial viability of prospective projects coast of Brazil covering 3,069 square kilometres.
We expect to after exploration and appraisal.
finalise the award of these blocks in the fourth quarter of FY2014.
United States Exploration program expenditure details Mad Dog Phase 2 In Western Australia, BHP Billiton drilled the Homevale well and has In April 2012, we announced approval for US$708 million a 60 per cent interest.
The well partially fulfilled the commitment on BHP Billiton share in pre-commitment funding for the Mad Dog WA-475P.
The well was spud in April 2013 and subsequently plugged Phase 2 project.
The Mad Dog Phase 2 project is in response to and abandoned as a dry hole in June 2013.
Also in Western Australia, the successful Mad Dog South appraisal well, which confirmed we participated in the non-operated Goodwyn North near field significant hydrocarbons in the southern portion of the Mad Dog exploration well BHP Billiton 16.7 per cent interest, Woodside field.
However, the project has been sent back to the study phase.
operator, which spud in January 2013 and was plugged, abandoned Discussions are ongoing with the operator to potentially modify the and expensed as a dry hole in February 2013. development plan.
BP is the operator and we hold a 23.90 per cent working interest.
In the Gulf of Mexico, we participated in four wells during FY2013.
In our core Green Canyon area, the Ness Deep exploration well Stampede formerly known as Knotty Head BHP Billiton 50 per cent working interest and operator was spud Development planning for the Stampede project is in progress.
in June 2012, with a subsequent sidetrack beginning in October 2012.
The development assumptions for this project consist of a joint The well encountered non-commercial quantities of hydrocarbons wet tree tension leg platform TLP development, production and was subsequently plugged, abandoned and expensed in and water injection wells.
Hess is the operator and we hold December 2012.
We participated in the non-operated Atlantis East a 20 per cent working interest.
appraisal well BHP Billiton 44 per cent working interest, BP operator, Australia which was spud in April 2012 and subsequently plugged, abandoned and expensed as a dry hole in November 2012.
The Gunflint-3 Scarborough appraisal well was completed in the first quarter of FY2013.
Development planning for the large Scarborough gas field We subsequently exited this prospect, selling our interest offshore Western Australia is in progress.
We continue to evaluate to existing partners in the Gunflint joint venture.
Esso is the operator of the WA-1-R lease and we hold a 50 per cent working interest.
We are the operator and Extending our Gulf of Mexico footprint to Desoto Canyon, we spud have a 100 per cent working interest in the adjacent Thebe discovery the Raptor exploration well in January 2013 BHP Billiton 50 per cent and the WA-346-P block.
working interest, Anadarko operator and subsequently sidetracked in May 2013.
Drilling of the sidetrack was in progress at 30 June 2013 North West Shelf Other Persephone Greater Western Flank 2 and completed in July 2013.
The well encountered approximately Planning is underway for the development of the Persephone field 150 net feet of oil: further evaluation is ongoing.
The Persephone field is located near existing North West Shelf infrastructure, approximately eight In South Africa, we own and operate a 90 per cent interest in block 3B 4B.
During the year, we fulfilled our minimum work obligation for kilometres northeast of the North Rankin A platform.
Greater Western Flank 2 represents the second phase of development of the core the current phase by acquiring a 10,075 square kilometre 3D seismic survey.
Processing of the survey will commence in early FY2014.
Greater Western Flank fields, behind the GWF-A development, and is located to the southwest of the existing Goodwyn A platform.
In India, we hold interests in and operate 10 offshore blocks acquired Woodside is the operator and we own a 16.67 per cent share of during the NELP VII and VIII licensing rounds.
We are currently both Persephone and Greater Western Flank 2. in discussions with the Government of India as we seek to obtain unencumbered access to these blocks to allow for petroleum exploration and production.
Until the access is obtained, the blocks remain in force majeure.
In India, we also have a 50 per cent non-operated interest BG operator in a deepwater block acquired during the NELP IX licensing round.
As this block has not been impacted by the access issue, we participated in the acquisition of 2,000 square kilometres of 2D seismic data.
In the Philippines, we operate the SC55 block with a 60 per cent working interest.
While we are committed to fulfilling our commitment to drill the Cinco prospect, as of 30 June we were waiting on the regulatory approvals required to drill the well.
To preserve the licence, the joint venture has suspended SC55 under force majeure until regulatory approval of the well can be obtained.
26 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
1 Petroleum and Potash Business continued 2.2.
2 Copper Business Drilling Our Copper Business is one of the worlds premier producers of copper, silver, lead and uranium, and a leading producer of zinc.
The number of wells in the process of being drilled including Our portfolio of large, long-life mining operations includes the temporarily suspended wells and excluding wells drilled and Escondida mine in Chile, the worlds largest single producer of completed in FY2013 as of 30 June 2013 was as follows: copper, and Olympic Dam in South Australia, a major producer Exploratory wells Development wells Total of copper and uranium, with potential for expansion.
1 1 1 Gross Net Gross Net Gross Net Our total copper production in FY2013 was 1.2 million tonnes Mt.
Our concentrate production, which represents 52 per cent of total Australia 10 4 10 4 production, comes from flotation of sulphide ores mined at our United States 3 3 471 259 474 262 Escondida, Antamina and Pinto Valley mines.
Oxide ores and Other 2 1 2 1 sulphide ores amenable to leaching are mined and processed into copper cathode, using conventional heap leaching, followed by Total 3 3 483 264 486 267 solvent extraction and electrowinning processes at Escondida, Cerro 1 Represents our share of the gross well count.
Colorado, Spence and Pinto Valley.
Copper cathode is also produced at Olympic Dam, our only underground copper operation, where Delivery commitments sulphide ores are processed through conventional flotation and the We have delivery commitments of natural gas and LNG of resulting concentrate is further transformed into cathodes through approximately 3,221 billion cubic feet through to 2032 61 per cent a smelting and refining process.
Australia, 17 per cent US and 22 per cent Other and crude, In addition to conventional mine development, we have a small condensate and NGL commitments of 12 million barrels through number of focused, technology development projects, at different to 2023 44 per cent United States, 41 per cent Australia and stages of maturity, that we expect will transform our assets into 15 per cent Other.
We have sufficient proved reserves and the next generation of mining, addressing resource extraction, production capacity to fulfil these delivery commitments.
productivity, costs and sustainability drivers.
An example of this is Further information on reserves can be found in section 2.13.1. leaching of low-grade chalcopyrite ores, currently being validated Potash at large scale at Escondida, which has the potential to recover copper from ores previously considered uneconomical.
Our Potash strategy is to build a material industry position over the long term.
We market five primary products: copper concentrates, copper cathodes, uranium oxide, lead concentrates and zinc concentrates.
We have acquired exploration permits, issued by the Government of Saskatchewan, covering over 14,000 square kilometres of mineral We sell most of our copper, lead and zinc concentrates to smelters, rights in the Province of Saskatchewan in Canada.
The permits are located in China, Chile, Japan, India and South Korea, under a result of our acquisitions, primarily of Anglo Potash Ltd in CY2008 long-term volume contracts at prices based on the London Metal and Athabasca Potash Inc in CY2010.
Our existing exploration Exchange LME price for the contained metal.
Prices are typically permits are expected to convert to lease between CY2013 and set three or four months after shipment, less treatment charges CY2016 in accordance with our planned lease conversion strategy.
and refining charges collectively referred to as TCRCs that are Our existing government mineral leases expire in CY2033 and negotiated with counterparties on a variety of tenors.
Some of the CY2034 unless renewed for further terms.
ores we mine contain quantities of silver and gold, which remain in the base metal concentrates we sell.
We receive payment credits for We continue advancing our Jansen Project, a greenfield potash the silver and gold recovered by our customers in the smelting and project, located approximately 146 kilometres east of Saskatoon, refining process.
Jansen is currently being designed to ultimately produce almost 10 Mtpa of agricultural grade potash We sell most of our copper cathode production to wire rod mills, for more than 50 years.
The updated Measured Resource estimate brass mills and casting plants around the world under annual for Jansen is 5.3 billion tonnes.
contracts with prices at premiums to LME prices set at the month after shipment.
We sell uranium oxide to electricity generating Jansen progressed into the feasibility study phase an advanced utilities, principally in western Europe, North America and east Asia.
stage of our project approvals process in February 2011.
Uranium is typically sold under a mix of longer-term and shorterOn 20 August 2013, an additional US$2.6 billion investment term contracts.
A portion of our uranium production is sold into was announced for Jansen, bringing total approved spending to fixed price contracts, although increasingly sales are based on US$3.8 billion.
This represents pre-commitment spending to fund flexible pricing terms.
the excavation and lining of the Jansen Potash Project production and service shafts, and to continue the installation of essential surface infrastructure and utilities.
Completion of both shafts is expected during CY2016, while the associated works program will extend into CY2017.
The investment will be spread over a number of years, with annual instalments of approximately US$800 million.
We are looking at the introduction of one or more minority partners, consistent with our approach for certain of our other resource operations.
We are continuing to execute a ground freezing program, in which the ground is frozen using a closed system of refrigeration pipes through which brine is circulated to allow for the sinking of the service and production shafts.
Shaft collars were completed in December 2012 and shaft sinking began at the end of CY2012.
The eventual depth of the service and production shafts will be approximately one kilometre.
We are continuing to study other potential projects in the Saskatchewan potash basin, including Young, Boulder and Melville, and are progressing these projects.
We are also conducting a potash exploration program in the same basin, including 3D seismic survey and drilling programs.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 27 2 Information on the Company continued 2.2.
2 Copper Business continued Antamina We have the following six assets in the Americas and Australia: We own 33.75 per cent of Antamina, a large, low-cost, long-life copper and zinc mine in Peru.
Our share of Antaminas FY2013 Americas production was 139.7 kt of copper in concentrate and 71.9 kt of Escondida zinc in concentrate.
Antamina also produces molybdenum and Our 57.5 per cent owned and operated Escondida mine is the lead bismuth concentrate together with smaller amounts of silver largest producer of copper in the world.
Located in the Atacama in the form of by-products.
Antamina has a reserve life of 14 years.
Desert in the north of Chile, Escondida employs approximately In FY2013, Antamina completed execution of an expansion project, 12,000 operational employees and contractors and has the capacity increasing milling capacity by 38 per cent to 130 kt per day.
to move in excess of 1.3 Mt of material per day.
Its two open-cut pits feed two concentrator plants, which use grinding and flotation Pinto Valley technologies to produce copper concentrate, as well as two leaching In April 2013, we signed a definitive agreement to sell our wholly operations oxide and sulphide.
In FY2013, our share of Escondida owned Pinto Valley Operation located in Arizona, United States, and production was 478.1 kilotonnes kt of payable copper in the associated San Manuel Arizona Railroad Company to Capstone concentrate and 171.3 kt of copper cathode.
Escondida has Mining Corp. for an aggregate cash consideration of US$650 million.
Ownership is expected to transfer to Capstone in the first half of FY2014 subject to the successful transfer of the operational permits.
The availability of key inputs like power and water at competitive prices is an important focus for the Copper Business.
Escondidas During FY2013, sulphide mining resumed at Pinto Valley with power demand of approximately 450 megawatts MW is currently production for FY2013 of 16.6 kt of copper concentrate and covered by four contracts: one of which provides 340 MW until 4.9 kt of copper cathode.
2029: and the balance of which provide 252 MW until 2016.
Australia As part of the longer-term power supply strategy, we are currently Cannington undergoing an international tendering process for the development of the licensed Kelar Power Plant site at Mejillones in order to secure Our wholly owned Cannington mine is one of the worlds largest the future power needs for Escondida and Pampa Norte.
producers of silver and lead.
Located in northwest Queensland, Australia, the underground mine feeds a beneficiation processing To address limitations on the availability of water, we desalinate facility that extracts silver lead and zinc concentrates from sulphide sea water and carefully manage our use and re-use of available ore.
In FY2013, Cannington produced concentrates containing water.
The recently approved Escondida Water Supply EWS project 213.4 kt of lead, 56.3 kt of zinc and approximately 31.1 million will reduce our reliance on the regions aquifers and help us meet ounces of silver.
Cannington has a reserve life of 11 years.
The EWS project is expected to be commissioned in 2017.
Olympic Dam Our wholly owned Olympic Dam mine is a producer of copper Pampa Norte cathode and uranium oxide and a refiner of gold and silver bullion.
Pampa Norte consists of two operations Spence and Cerro The site includes an underground mine, where the primary method Colorado.
Copper cathode is produced at both operations following of ore extraction is long-hole open stoping with cemented a leaching, solvent extraction and electrowinning process.
aggregate fill, and an integrated metallurgical processing plant.
Our wholly owned Spence copper mine is located in the Atacama The underground mine extracts copper uranium ore and hauls Desert, 162 kilometres northeast of Antofagasta in Chile.
During the ore by an automated train and trucking network feeding FY2013, Spence produced 161.1 kt of copper cathode.
Spence has underground crushing, storage and ore hoisting facilities.
The processing plant consists of two grinding circuits in which Our wholly owned Cerro Colorado mine, located in the Atacama high-quality copper concentrate is extracted from sulphide ore Desert, 120 kilometres east of Iquique in Chile, remains a significant through a flotation extraction process.
The operation includes producer of copper cathode, although production levels have a fully integrated metallurgical complex with a grinding and declined in recent years as grades have declined.
Production concentrating circuit, hydrometallurgical plant incorporating in FY2013 was 71.5 kt of copper cathode.
Cerro Colorado has solvent extraction circuits for copper and uranium, a copper a reserve life of nine years.
smelter, copper refinery and a recovery circuit for precious metals.
In FY2013, Olympic Dam produced 166.2 kt of copper cathode, 4.1 kt of uranium oxide, 113.2 kilo-ounces koz of refined gold and 880 koz of refined silver.
Olympic Dam has a reserve life of 56 years.
28 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Copper mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
2 and reserve tables see section 2.13.2.
Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, use 1 location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source & condition Americas Copper Escondida Atacama Public road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Mining concession Original 2 open-cut pits: Escondida- 2 concentrator Desert, 170 km 57.5% of Minera from Chilean construction Escondida and owned plants extract Copper cathode southeast of Escondida Government completed 1990 Escondida Norte transmission copper concentrate transported by Antofagasta, Limitada MEL valid indefinitely lines connect from sulphide privately owned Sulphide leach Escondida and Chile subject to payment to Chiles ore by flotation rail to ports at Rio Tinto 30% copper production Escondida Norte of annual fees northern power extraction process Antofagasta JECO Corporation commenced mineral deposits grid and Mejillones consortium 2006 are adjacent but 2 solvent extraction comprising distinct supergene Electricity plants produce Copper Mitsubishi, JX enriched porphyry purchased copper cathode concentrate Nippon Mining copper deposits under contract transported by Nominal design and Metals 10% Escondida-owned capacity: 3.4 Mtpa JECO2 Ltd 2.5% pipeline to its copper concentrate Coloso port and 330 ktpa copper facilities cathode nominal tank house capacity Pampa Norte Spence Atacama Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining concession Development Open-cut Spence-owned Processing and Desert, 162 km from Chilean cost of transmission crushing facilities, Copper cathode Supergene enriched northeast of Government valid US$1.1 billion lines connect separate dynamic transported by porphyry copper Antofagasta, indefinitely subject approved 2004 to Chiles on-off leach rail to ports at deposit that Chile to payment of northern power pads, solvent Mejillones and First copper includes copper annual fees grid extraction plant, Antofagasta produced 2006 oxide ores overlying electrowinning plant a sulphide zone Electricity purchased Nominal tank house under contract capacity: 200 ktpa copper cathode Pampa Norte Cerro Colorado Atacama Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining concession Commercial Open-cut Long-term 2 primary, secondary Desert, 120 km from Chilean production contracts with and tertiary Copper cathode Supergene enriched east of Iquique, Government valid commenced 1994 northern Chile crushers, leaching trucked to port and oxidised Chile indefinitely subject power grid pads, solvent at Iquique Expansions porphyry copper to payment of extraction plant, 1996 and 1998 deposit that annual fees electrowinning plant consists of a sulphide Nominal tank house enrichment zone capacity: 120 ktpa overlayed by oxide copper cathode ore chrysocolla and brochantite Pinto Valley 104 km east Public road 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title Acquired 1996 Pinto Valley: Salt River 2 SXEW operations of Phoenix, to the land as part of open-pit Project at Pinto Valley Copper and Definitive sale Arizona, US Magma Copper and Miami molybdenum agreement Miami Unit: acquisition concentrate signed in in situ leach Copper in transported April 2013 Sulphide mining concentrate Porphyry copper by truck and milling production capacity Sale expected deposit of operations approx.
60 ktpa to be finalised low-grade primary restarted 2012 in FY2014 mineralisation Residual SXEW production continues Copper and zinc Antamina Andes Public road BHP Billiton Compaa Mining rights Commercial Open-cut Long-term Primary crusher, mountain 33.75% of Minera from Peruvian production contracts concentrator Copper and zinc Zoned porphyry range, 270 km Compaa Minera Antamina Government held commenced 2001 with individual nominal capacity concentrates and skarn deposit north of Lima, Antamina SA SA indefinitely, subject power 130,000 tpd, transported Capital cost with central north central to payment producers copper and zinc by pipeline to Glencore US$2.3 billion copper-only ores Peru of annual fees flotation circuits, port of Huarmey Xstrata 33.75% 100% and an outer band and supply bismuth moly Teck 22.5% of copper-zinc Molybdenum of information cleaning circuit Mitsubishi 10% ore zone and lead bismuth on investment 300 km concentrate concentrates and production pipeline design transported throughput by truck 2.3 dry Mtpa Port facilities at Huarmey 1 Capacities are based on maximum original design capacity, which is subject to grade and ore hardness variability year-on-year.
As mines age, material mined is typically harder and of lower grade than the original ore. BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 29 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Copper mining operations continued Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, use 1 location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source & condition Australia Silver, lead and zinc Cannington 200 km Public road and 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Concentrate Underground On-site Beneficiation plant: southeast Group-owned granted by production Broken Hill-type power station primary and of Mt Isa, airstrip Queensland commenced silver-lead-zinc operated under secondary grinding Queensland, Government 1997, subsequent sulphide deposit contract circuits, pre-flotation Product trucked Australia expire 2029 projects improved circuits, flotation to Yurbi, then by mill throughput circuits, leaching rail to public port and metal circuits, concentrate recovery filtration circuit, paste plant Nominal milling capacity: 3.4 Mtpa Copper and uranium Olympic Dam 560 km Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining lease Acquired 2005 Underground Supplied via Underground northwest granted by as part of WMC 275 kV power automated train Copper cathode Large poly-metallic of Adelaide, South Australian acquisition line from and trucking trucked to ports deposit of iron South Australia Government Port Augusta, network feeding Copper oxide-copperUranium oxide expires 2036 transmitted crushing, storage production uranium-gold transported by by ElectraNet and ore hoisting Right of extension began 1988 mineralisation road to ports facilities for 50 years subject Throughput to remaining 2 grinding circuits raised to mine life 9 Mtpa in 1999 Flash furnace produces copper Optimisation anodes, then refined project to produce copper completed 2002 1 cathodes New copper Nominal capacity: solvent 200 ktpa copper extraction plant 2 cathode commissioned 2004 1 Capacities are based on maximum original design capacity, which is subject to grade and ore hardness variability year-on-year.
As mines age, material mined is typically harder and of lower grade than the original ore. 2 Electrowon copper cathode and uranium oxide concentrate produced by leaching and solvent extracting flotation tailings.
project, water supply for the OGP1 copper concentrator will be Development projects sourced from existing aquifers.
Escondida Organic Growth Project 1 OGP1, which is the replacement of Antamina the Los Colorados concentrator with a new 152 kt per day plant, In FY2013, Antamina completed execution of its expansion project, is currently in execution.
The project provides additional processing increasing milling capacity by 38 per cent to 130 kt per day.
The capacity and allows access to higher-grade ore.
The OGP1 project project was approved in FY2010 and included a new SAG mill, was approved in February 2012 with budgeted expenditure of a 55-kilometre transmission power line, an expanded truck shop US$3.8 billion US$2.2 billion BHP Billiton share.
Project completion facility and upgrades to the crushing and tailing systems, flotation is targeted for the first half of CY2015.
Work on the OGP1 project circuit and port capacity.
The project was delivered at a total cost was 41 per cent complete at 30 June 2013. of US$1.5 billion US$511 million BHP Billiton share.
The Oxide Leach Area Project OLAP, also in execution, involves Olympic Dam the creation of a new dynamic leaching pad and mineral handling An Identification Phase study is being conducted into the proposed system that will include several overland conveyors.
The new pad expansion of Olympic Dam.
The objective of the study is to identify is expected to maintain oxide leaching capacity at current levels the full range of development path alternatives for Olympic Dam by following the exhaustion of the existing heap leach in CY2014.
investigating all possible mining methods and less capital intensive OLAP was approved in February 2012 with budgeted expenditure designs, including new technologies to substantially improve the of US$721 million US$414 million BHP Billiton share.
Work on the economics of any expansion.
project was 61 per cent complete at 30 June 2013, and is on track Resolution Copper for commissioning in the first half of CY2014.
We hold a 45 per cent interest in the Resolution Copper project in The Escondida Water Supply project EWS was approved by Arizona, United States, operated by Rio Tinto 55 per cent interest.
BHP Billiton in July 2013 and consists of a new 2,500 litre per Resolution Copper is undertaking a pre-feasibility study into second sea water desalination facility.
This project will provide a substantial underground copper mine and processing facility.
an alternative water supply to Escondida, as water usage increases upon completion of the 152 kt per day OGP1 copper concentrator.
In FY2013, Resolution Copper continued to advance the sinking Construction of the new desalination facility commenced in July of the No.
10 Shaft in order to gain access to the ore deposit for 2013 and will include the development of two pipelines, four characterisation work of mineralisation and geotechnical conditions.
high-pressure pump stations, a reservoir at the mine site and Work is continuing towards gaining approval from the US Congress high-voltage infrastructure to support the system.
The new facility for a federal land exchange to access the ore deposit and advance is expected to be commissioned in 2017 at a cost of US$3.4 billion the project.
US$2.0 billion BHP Billiton share.
Prior to completion of the EWS 30 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
2 Copper Business continued Along with the other joint venture participants, we have entered into marketing agreements in the form of joint ventures with certain Yeelirrie customers.
These customer joint ventures, JW4, Wheelarra and On 27 August 2012, we announced we had signed an agreement to POSMAC, involve subleases of part of WAIOs existing mineral leases, sell our wholly owned Yeelirrie uranium deposit in Western Australia with ore being sold to the existing joint ventures with contractual to Cameco Corporation for US$430 million.
The sale was settled on terms applying to the customers share.
As a consequence, 19 December 2012. we are entitled to 85 per cent of production from these subleases 2.2.
3 Iron Ore Business and the customer joint ventures are accounted for as marketing arrangements rather than as jointly controlled assets.
Our Iron Ore Business is one of the leading iron ore producers in the world.
We sell lump and fines products produced in Australia We have been expanding our WAIO operations in response to and pellets from our operations in Brazil.
increasing demand for iron ore.
Since 2001, we have completed six expansion projects and are undertaking a further two projects Our two assets consist of the following: to increase our mine, rail and port capacity from 67 million tonnes Western Australia Iron Ore per annum Mtpa to an expected minimum capacity of 220 Mtpa Operations at Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO involve an 100 per cent basis.
Our share of FY2013 production was 158.9 Mt integrated system of mines and more than 1,000 kilometres of ore. We now have additional projects in various stages of the of rail infrastructure and port facilities in the Pilbara region of project life cycle including construction to further increase system northern Western Australia, with the headquarters located in Perth.
capacity see Development projects below.
Our strategy is to maximise output utilising available infrastructure Our Pilbara reserve base is relatively concentrated, allowing us at our disposal.
Our priorities are to continue our growth projects to plan our development around a series of integrated mining hubs currently in execution, as well as maintaining our options for joined to the orebodies by conveyors or spur lines.
enables us to maximise the value of installed infrastructure by Our WAIO operations consist of four joint ventures: Mt Newman, using the same processing plant and rail infrastructure for a number Yandi, Mt Goldsworthy and Jimblebar.
Our interest in Mt Newman, of orebodies.
Yandi and Mt Goldsworthy Joint Ventures is 85 per cent.
Mitsui and The reserve life of our Western Australia mines is 17 years.
ITOCHU own the remaining 15 per cent.
On 10 July 2013, our ownership in Jimblebar Joint Venture reduced to 85 per cent WAIO Mineral Reserves reported in FY2013 have been changed following the issuing of equity in a subsidiary company, for to a Pilbara basis by ore type, to align with our future strategy for which BHP Billiton received total consideration of US$1.5 billion, a Pilbara lump product.
This also reflects our single logistics chain in shares and loans of the subsidiary.
The Mt Newman Joint Venture JV consists of a number of ore Samarco bodies joined by conveyors and spur lines to a mining hub at We are a 5050 joint venture partner with Vale at the Samarco Mt Whaleback.
Ore is crushed, beneficiated where necessary operation in Brazil.
Samarco is currently comprised of a mine and and blended to create the Mt Newman blend for lump and fines.
two concentrators, located in the state of Minas Gerais, and three The ore is then transported to port using Mt Newman JV-owned pellet plants and a port, located in the state of Espirito Santo.
Ore produced by Yandi JV is processed at the Two 396-kilometre pipelines connect the mine site to the Yandi mine and transported by rail on the Newman main line.
The Mt Goldsworthy JV consists of the Area C mine in the Samarcos main product is iron ore pellets.
Extraction and central Pilbara and Yarrie mine in northern Pilbara.
beneficiation of iron ore is conducted at the Germano facilities All ore is transported by rail on the Mt Newman and Mt Goldsworthy in the municipalities of Mariana and Ouro Preto.
Conveyor rail lines to port facilities.
A typical train configuration consists of systems are used to extract the ore and convey it from the mines.
two locomotives per 124 ore cars, called a rake, with two rakes per Ore beneficiation then occurs in concentrators, where crushing, train.
Each individual ore car carries approximately 128 tonnes milling, desliming and flotation processes produce iron concentrate.
of iron ore. Our rail operations are controlled from Perth via our The concentrate leaves the concentrators as slurry and is pumped integrated remote operations centre which co-locates rail control, through the slurry pipelines from the Germano facilities to the pellet port production control, mine dispatch control and mine fixed plants in Ubu, where the slurry is processed into pellets.
ore pellets are then heat treated.
Our port facilities are located on both sides of the harbour at Port The pellet output is stored in a stockpile yard before being shipped Hedland, consisting of Nelson Point owned by the Mt Newman JV, out of the Samarco-owned Port of Ubu in Anchieta.
Pellets are and Finucane Island, owned by the Mt Goldsworthy JV.
The port independently marketed by Samarco and sold to steelmakers in facilities include five ore car dumpers, three screening plants, nine 25 countries in the Americas, Asia, Africa, the Middle East and stackers, five reclaimers, stock and blending yards, and eight ship Europe, with prices generally linked to market indices.
Vessels depart the harbour via a dredged channel, which In FY2013, our share of production was 11 Mt of pellets.
The reserve is approximately 45 kilometres long and has a width of 300 metres.
Lump and fines products are sold to steel mills in China, South Korea, Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Switzerland and Australia, under long-term and short-term contracts.
Contract prices are generally linked to market indices.
After the acquisition of HWE Mining Subsidiaries from Leighton Holdings on 30 September 2011, we now operate all mines except for Wheelarra and Orebody 18, as noted in the table below.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 31 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Iron Ore mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source & condition Iron ore Mt Newman Joint Venture Open-cut Alinta Dewaps Newman Hub: Pilbara region, Private road BHP Billiton 85% BHP Billiton: Mining lease Production began Newman primary and Western Mt under the Iron Ore at Mt Whaleback Iron ore Mitsui ITOCHU Bedded ore types gas-fired power secondary crushing Australia Whaleback Mt Newman orebody 1969 transported by Iron 10% classified as per station via and screening plants Orebodies Agreement Act Mt Whaleback Mt Newman ITOCHU Minerals Production from host Archaean Mt Newman nominal capacity 23, 24, 25, 1964 expires Orebodies JV-owned rail to and Energy of Orebodies 18, 23, or Proterozoic iron JV-owned 60 Mtpa : heavy 29 and 30 2030 with right to 18, 23, 24, 25, Port Hedland Australia 5% 24, 25, 29 and formation, which power lines media beneficiation successive renewals 29 and 30 427km Independent 30 complements are Brockman and plant, stockyard of 21 years contractors: production from Marra Mamba blending facility, Orebody 18 Mt Whaleback single cell rotary First ore from car dumper, Newman Hub train-loading facility as part of RGP4 Orebody 23 25: construction primary and delivered 2009 secondary crushing and screening plant nominal capacity 10 Mtpa Yandi Joint Venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP Billiton 85% BHP Billiton Mining lease under Development Open-cut Alinta Dewaps 3 processing plants, Western the Iron Ore began 1991 Newman primary crusher and Mitsui Iron Ore Channel Iron Iron ore Australia Marillana Creek gas-fired power overland conveyor Corporation 7% First shipment Deposits are transported Agreement Act station via nominal capacity ITOCHU Minerals 1992 Cainozoic fluvial by Mt Newman 1991 expires Mt Newman 75 Mtpa JV-owned rail and Energy of sediments Capacity 2033 with one JV-owned to Port Hedland Australia 8% Ore delivered to expanded renewal right to power lines 316km 2 train-loading between a further 21 years facilities Yandi JVs railway 19942013 spur links Yandi mine to Newman main line JW4 Joint Venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP Billiton 68% BHP Billiton Sublease over part Operations began Open-cut Alinta Dewaps Mine site Western of the mining lease April 2006 Newman Iron ore on-sold ITOCHU Minerals Channel Iron Australia under the Iron Ore gas-fired power to Yandi JV, then and Energy of Ore currently Deposits are Marillana Creek station via transported via Australia 6.4% being produced Cainozoic fluvial Agreement Act Mt Newman rail to Finucane Mitsui Iron Ore is sold to Yandi sediments 1991 expires JV-owned Island and Nelson Corporation 5.6% JV and blended 2033 with one power lines Point shipping JFE Steel with Yandi ore renewal right for facilities at Australia 20% a further 21 years Port Hedland Sublease agreement over JW4 deposit Jimblebar Joint Venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Mining lease Production at Open-cut Alinta Dewaps Primary and Western 100% of the under the Iron Ore Jimblebar began Newman secondary crusher, Bedded ore types Australia Jimblebar lease McCameys March 1989 gas-fired power ore handling plant, classified as per at 30 June 2013 Monster Agreement station via stockyards and From 2004, host Archaean or Authorisation Mt Newman supporting mining BHP Billiton share production was Proterozoic banded Act 1972 expires JV-owned hub infrastructure reduced to 85% transferred to iron formation, 2030 with rights power lines are in the on 10 July Wheelarra as part which are to successive commissioning 2013 following of the Wheelarra Brockman and renewals of 21 years phase nominal an issue of equity sublease Marra Mamba capacity 35 Mtpa agreement ITOCHU Minerals at full capacity in and Energy New mine under FY2014 of Australia 8%, construction is Mitsui Iron Ore both inside and Corporation 7% outside of the Wheelarra sublease 32 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Iron Ore mining operations continued Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source & condition Iron ore continued Wheelarra Joint Venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP Billiton 51% Operated by Sublease agreement Wheelarra JV Open-cut Alinta Dewaps Wheelarra: Primary Western over the Wheelarra produces iron ore Newman crushing plant Iron ore ITOCHU Minerals independent Bedded ore types Australia deposit of Jimblebar from Wheelarra gas-fired power nominal capacity transported and Energy of contractors classified as per lease with ITOCHU deposit of station via 13.9 Mtpa by Mt Newman Australia 4.8% host Archaean or Minerals and Energy Jimblebar lease Mt Newman JV owned rail Mitsui Iron Ore Proterozoic banded of Australia, Mitsui JV owned to Port Hedland Corporation 4.2% Ore currently iron formation, Iron Ore and four power lines via 32 km spur being produced which is Brockman Maanshan separate subsidiaries line linking is sold to Mt Iron & Steel of Chinese to Newman Newman JV and Australia 10% steelmakers main line blended with ore Shagang This arrangement, produced from Australia 10% entitles us to 85% Mt Whaleback Hebei Iron & Steel of production from and satellite Australia 10% the Wheelarra Orebodies 18, Wugang sublease consistent 23, 24 and 25 Australia 10% with BHP Billiton to create Sublease ownership in Mt Newman agreement Mt Newman JV blend over Wheelarra deposit Mt Goldsworthy Joint Venture Pilbara region, Private road BHP Billiton 85% BHP Billiton 4 mineral leases Operations Area C, Yarrie Yarrie and Area C: ore Western under the Iron Ore commenced and Nimingarra Nimingarra: processing plant, Yarrie and Mitsui Iron Ore Australia Mt Goldsworthy Mt Goldsworthy all open-cut Alinta Dewaps primary crusher and Nimingarra Corporation 7% Agreement Act 1966, at Shay Port Hedland overland conveyor Area C iron ore ITOCHU Minerals Bedded ore types 1964 and the Iron Gap 1973 gas-fired power nominal capacity: Yarrie transported by and Energy of classified as per Ore Goldsworthy station under 50 Mtpa Nimingarra Mt Goldsworthy Australia 8% Original host Archaean Nimingarra long-term JV-owned rail Goldsworthy or Proterozoic iron Yarrie: mobile in-pit Agreement Act 1972, contracts to Port Hedland mine closed 1982 formation, which crushing plant expire between Area C: Alinta 218 km are Brockman, Associated Shay nominal capacity: 2014 and 2028, with Dewaps Marra Mamba Area C iron ore Gap mine closed 2 Mtpa rights to successive Newman and Nimingarra transported 1993 Primary crushers renewals of 21 years gas-fired power by Mt Newman Mining at at Yarrie and station under A number of smaller JV-owned rail Nimingarra mine Nimingarra in care long-term mining leases to Port Hedland ceased 2007, has and maintenance contracts granted under 360 km since continued the Mining Act from adjacent Mt Goldsworthy 1978 expire in 2026 Yarrie area JV railway spur links Area C Opened Area C mine to Yandi mine 2003 railway spur POSMAC Joint Venture Operations Open-cut Alinta Dewaps Mine site Pilbara Region, Private road BHP Billiton 65% BHP Billiton Sublease over commenced Newman Western part of mineral Iron ore ITOCHU Minerals Bedded ore types lease held by October 2003 gas-fired power Australia on-sold to and Energy of classified as per Mt Goldsworthy JV station under Mt Goldsworthy Australia 8% Iron ore currently host Archaean under the Iron Ore long-term JV, it is then Mitsui Iron Ore being produced or Proterozoic iron Mt Goldsworthy contracts transported via Corporation 7% is sold to formation, which Agreement Act Mt Goldsworthy Mt Goldsworthy are Brockman and POSCO 20% 1964 with rights to JV-owned rail JV and blended Marra Mamba Sublease successive renewals and Mt Newman with Area C ore agreement over of 21 years JV-owned rail POSMAC deposit to Port Hedland Samarco Southeast Public road BHP Billiton 50% Samarco Mining concessions Production began Open-cut Samarco holds Facilities with Brazil of Samarco granted by Brazilian at Germano interests in capacity to process Conveyor belts Itabirites Minerao SA Government as long mine 1977, 2 hydroelectric and pump 24 Mtpa transport iron ore metamorphic as Alegria complex at Alegria power plants ore concentrate and to beneficiation Vale 50% quartz-hematite mined according complex 1992 which supply produce and ship plant rock and friable to agreed plan 20.3% of its 22.3 Mtpa pellets Two expansions hematite ores Two slurry electricity 100% basis completed with pipelines a second pellet Power supply transport plant built contract with concentrate 1997 and Cemig Gerao to pellet plants a third pellet e Transmisso on coast plant, second expires 2022 Iron pellets concentrator and exported via second pipeline port facilities built 2008 In April 2011, Samarcos shareholders approved the fourth pellet plant BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 33 2 Information on the Company continued 2.2.
3 Iron Ore Business continued Development projects Western Australia Iron Ore Orebody 24 mine Western Australia Iron Ore In November 2011, we announced approval of a US$822 million BHP Billiton share US$698 million investment for the development In March 2011, we announced approval of an additional of the Orebody 24 mine, located approximately 10 kilometres US$7.4 billion BHP Billiton share US$6.6 billion of capital northeast of Newman, Western Australia.
Orebody 24 is a sustaining expenditure to continue production growth in our WAIO operations.
mine to maintain iron ore production output from the Mt Newman This investment is the final approval of projects initiated in 2010, JV operations.
Orebody 24 is expected to have a capacity of with pre-commitment funding of US$2.3 billion BHP Billiton share 17 Mtpa and will include the construction of an ore crushing US$2.1 billion.
It is expected to deliver an integrated operation with plant, train loadout facility, rail spur and other associated support a minimum capacity of 220 Mtpa 100 per cent basis, with first facilities.
First production was achieved in the December 2012 production expected from Jimblebar in the December 2013 quarter.
quarter and work on the overall project was 88 per cent complete This additional investment includes: at 30 June 2013.
US$3.4 billion BHP Billiton share US$3.3 billion Jimblebar Mine Samarco Expansion project to develop the Jimblebar mine and rail links, During FY2011, Samarco shareholders approved a US$3.5 billion and procure mining equipment and rolling stock to deliver an BHP Billiton share US$1.75 billion expansion project consisting initial capacity of 35 Mtpa, expandable to 55 Mtpa.
Work on of a fourth pellet plant, a new concentrator and a third slurry this project is on schedule for first production in the December pipeline.
The Fourth Pellet Plant Project P4P is expected to expand 2013 quarter and will broadly match mine and port capacity Samarcos iron ore pellet production capacity from 22.3 Mtpa to at 220 Mtpa 100 per cent basis.
The overall project was 30.5 Mtpa.
First pellet production is expected in the first half of 89 per cent complete at 30 June 2013.
The project was 90 per cent complete as at 30 June 2013. amount has been increased by US$354 million BHP Billiton share US$340 million as a result of appreciation of the Exploration activities Australian dollar against the United States dollar.
In addition, Western Australia as a result of the issue of equity by a BHP Billiton subsidiary WAIO has a substantial existing reserve base supported by on 10 July 2013, BHP Billiton share has reduced to US$3.2 billion: considerable additional mineralisation all within a 250-kilometre US$2.3 billion BHP Billiton share US$1.9 billion to further develop radius of our existing infrastructure.
This concentration of orebodies Port Hedland, including two additional berths and ship loaders, also gives WAIO the flexibility to add growth tonnes to existing hub a car dumper, connecting conveyor routes, and associated rail infrastructure and link greenfield developments to our existing works and rolling stock.
The first production was achieved mainline rail and port facilities.
The total area covered by exploration following the commissioning of the fifth car dumper at Finucane and mining tenure amounts to 5,308 square kilometres.
This excludes Island in the December 2012 quarter.
The car dumper is the last miscellaneous and general purpose licences, which are used for major piece of infrastructure required to increase the port capacity infrastructure space and access.
from the December 2012 quarter annualised rate of 188 Mtpa to 220 Mtpa 100 per cent basis.
Work on this project was The majority of deposits are located on five main lease areas held by BHP Billiton and our joint venture partners.
Iron ore 92 per cent complete at 30 June 2013: mineralised materials fall mainly within the Hamersley Ranges US$1.7 billion BHP Billiton share US$1.4 billion for port blending of the Pilbara district, with a minor component of the inventory facilities and rail yards to enable ore blending, expand resource lying within the Pilbara Craton of northwest Western Australia.
life and prepare for the anticipated growth of the business beyond the Inner Harbour.
In FY2013, a decision was made to prioritise There are four main material types for the deposits: capital efficient growth in the Inner Harbour.
This resulted in the Brockman Iron Formation: construction of port blending and rail yard facilities at the South Marra Mamba: Stockyard being taken out of scope and reduced the project spend Channel Iron Deposits: by US$470 million BHP Billiton share US$400 million.
Work on Nimingarra Iron Formation.
this project is on schedule and budget.
The overall project was 86 per cent complete at 30 June 2013.
In FY2013, exploration activity was completed over multiple project areas and deposits.
The total drilling carried out amounts Port Hedland Harbour Strategy to 453,000 metres, composed of RC reverse circulation In February 2012, we announced approval of US$917 million of 392,000 metres, DD diamond drilling of 43,000 metres BHP Billiton share US$779 million in pre-commitment funding and Hyd hydrology drilling of 18,000 metres, consisting of for the construction of an Outer Harbour facility associated with approximately 4,000 drill holes.
Total exploration expenditure our WAIO operations.
On 24 August 2012, we announced that Western Australias Minister Guinea Iron Ore for Transport and the Port Hedland Port Authority had granted BHP Billiton currently has a 41.3 per cent interest in a joint WAIO the right to develop two additional berths in the Inner Harbour, venture that holds the Nimba Mining Concession and four iron subject to the state approvals processes.
On 20 February 2013, ore prospecting permits in southeast Guinea.
The joint venture is we announced a decision to defer the Outer Harbour development continuing to undertake a pre-feasibility study for the development beyond the five-year planning horizon as our focus has shifted of the concession and associated transport infrastructure.
to maximising our potential capacity from the Inner Harbour and capitalising on infrastructure from previous investment.
Liberia Iron Ore BHP Billiton currently has a 100 per cent interest in a Mineral Development Agreement with the Government of Liberia.
This enables the further exploration and development of our Liberian iron ore mineral leases.
Exploration and development of these leases continues, with drilling conducted on select targets.
34 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
4 Coal Business Metallurgical Coal Our Metallurgical Coal Assets are: Our Coal Business is the worlds largest supplier of seaborne BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance metallurgical coal.
Metallurgical coal, along with iron ore BMA comprises two unincorporated joint ventures Central and manganese, is a key input in the production of steel.
Queensland Coal Associates Joint Venture CQCA and Gregory Joint Total Metallurgical Coal production in FY2013 was 37.7 Mt.
We share 5050 ownership with Mitsubishi Development.
Metallurgical Coal comprises the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA operates the Goonyella Riverside, Peak Downs, Saraji, Norwich BMA and BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal BMC Assets in the Bowen Park production ceased, Blackwater, Broadmeadow, Daunia and Basin in Central Queensland, Australia, and the Illawarra Coal Gregory Crinum open-cut production ceased mines, together with Asset in the Illawarra region of New South Wales, Australia.
the Hay Point Coal terminal.
In May 2012, production ceased at The Bowen Basin is well positioned to supply the seaborne market Norwich Park mine indefinitely, following a review of the mines because of its high-quality metallurgical coals, which are ideally viability.
In October 2012, production also ceased at Gregory suited to efficient blast furnace operations, and its geographical open-cut mine, part of the Gregory Crinum complex.
Production proximity to Asian customers.
We also have access to key commenced at Daunia in March 2013. infrastructure in the Bowen Basin, including a modern, integrated Our share of total production in FY2013 was 22.6 Mt.
Production electric rail network and our own coal loading terminal at Hay figures for BMA include some energy coal less than two per cent.
The reserve lives of our mines range from three years at Gregory The Hay Point terminal currently consists of coal inloading dump Crinum to 39 years at Saraji.
The reserve life for each mine is set stations, stacker reclaimers and two ship loaders, capable out in section 2.13.2. of loading 44 Mtpa of coal.
The terminal is currently undergoing BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal expansion to increase its capacity to 55 Mtpa through the addition BMC is a subsidiary company owned by BHP Billiton 80 per cent of a third shiploader.
This infrastructure enables us to maximise and Mitsui and Co 20 per cent.
BMC operates South Walker Creek throughput and blending of products from multiple mines of and Poitrel mines.
BMA and BMC, to optimise the value of our production and to satisfy customer requirements.
The reserve lives of our mines are 17 years at Poitrel and 21 years at South Walker Creek.
Total production in FY2013 was 7.1 Mt.
Our Metallurgical Coal Assets are comprised of both open-cut and underground mines.
At our open-cut mines, overburden is Illawarra Coal removed after blasting, using either draglines or truck and shovel.
Illawarra Coal owns and operates three underground coal mines, Coal is then extracted using excavators or loaders and loaded onto these being Appin, West Cliff and Dendrobium, in the Illawarra trucks to be taken to stockpiles.
At our underground mines, coal region of New South Wales, Australia, which supply metallurgical is extracted by either longwall or continuous miner.
The coal is then coal to the nearby BlueScope Port Kembla steelworks, and other transported to the surface by conveyor to stockpiles.
Coal from domestic and export markets.
Coal is exported via Port Kembla Coal stockpiles is then crushed, washed and processed through the terminal of which we own a 16.67 per cent share.
Total production in coal preparation plant.
Export coal is transported to the port FY2013 was 7.9 Mt.
The reserve lives of our mines range from three via trucks or trains.
The majority of sales to domestic customers years at West Cliff to 26 years at Appin.
The reserve life for each are transported by truck.
mine is set out in section 2.13.2.
Our export customers are steel producers around the world, Production figures for Illawarra Coal include some energy coal principally in China, India, Japan and Europe.
In FY2013, the majority less than 17 per cent.
of our contracts were based on annual or longer-term volumes, with prices largely negotiated on a monthly, quarterly or spot basis.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 35 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Metallurgical Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The tables should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
2 and reserves tables see section 2.13.2.
Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source & condition Metallurgical coal Central Queensland Coal Associates CQCA Joint Venture All open-cut except Queensland On-site beneficiation Bowen Basin, Public road BHP Billiton 50% BMA Mining leases, Goonyella mine Broadmeadow: electricity grid processing facilities Queensland, including commenced Coal transported Mitsubishi longwall Australia undeveloped 1971, merged by rail to Development Combined nominal underground tenements, with adjoining Goonyella Hay Point and 50% capacity: in excess expire between Riverside Riverside, Gladstone ports Bituminous coal of 58 Mtpa following 20142043, mine 1989 Peak Downs, is mined from the first coal from Daunia Distances renewable for Saraji, Operates Permian Moranbah between the Hay Point Coal further periods Norwich Park, as Goonyella and Rangal mines and port terminal as Queensland Blackwater, Riverside Coal measures are between Government Broadmeadow 160 km and Production Products legislation allows and Daunia 315 km commenced: range from mines Mining is permitted Peak Downs premium-quality, to continue under 1972 low volatile, high the legislation Saraji 1974 vitrinite, hard during the renewal Norwich Park coking coal to application period 1979 medium volatile Blackwater 1967 hard coking coal, to weak coking Broadmeadow coal, some longwall pulverised coal operations 2005 injection PCI coal Daunia 2013 and medium ash thermal coal as a secondary product Gregory Joint Venture Public road BHP Billiton 50% BMA Mining leases, Production Gregory: open-cut Queensland On-site beneficiation Bowen Basin, Queensland, including commenced: electricity grid processing facility Coal transported Mitsubishi Crinum: longwall Australia undeveloped Gregory 1979 by rail to Hay Development underground Nominal capacity: tenements, Gregory and Point and 50% Crinum mine in excess of 5 Mtpa Bituminous coal expire between Crinum mines Gladstone ports longwall 1997 is mined from the 20142027, Distances Production at Permian German renewable for between the Gregory open-cut Creek Coal further periods mines and port mine ceased measures as Queensland are between October 2012 Product is a high Government 310 km and volatile, low ash legislation allows 370 km hard coking coal BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal Bowen Basin, Public road BHP Billiton 80% BMC Mining leases, South Walker Open-cut Queensland South Walker Creek Queensland, including Creek electricity grid coal beneficiated Coal transported Mitsui and Co Bituminous coal Australia undeveloped commenced 1996 on-site by rail to Hay 20% is mined from the tenements South Walker Point port Poitrel Permian Rangal Nominal capacity: expire between Creek and commenced 2006 Coal measures in excess of 4 Mtpa Distances 20142031, and Poitrel mines between the Produces a range Poitrel mine has are renewable mines and port of coking coal, PCI Red Mountain joint for further periods are between coal and thermal venture with as Queensland 135 km and coal products with adjacent Millennium Government 165 km medium to high Coal mine to share legislation allows phosphorus and processing and rail ash properties loading facilities Nominal capacity: 3 Mtpa Illawarra Coal Illawarra, New Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Production Underground New South 2 beneficiation South Wales, expire between commenced: Wales facilities Coal transported Bituminous coal Australia 20162033, Appin 1962 electricity grid by road or rail to is mined from the Nominal capacity: renewable for longwall Dendrobium, BlueScope Steels Permian Illawarra in excess of 9 Mtpa further periods as operations 1969 Appin and West Port Kembla Coal Measures NSW Government Cliff mines steelworks West Cliff 1976 Produces legislation allows or Port Kembla Dendrobium 2005 premium-quality for export hard coking coal Distances and some thermal between the coal from the mines and port Wongawilli and are between Bulli seams 5 km and 55 km 36 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
At our underground mines, coal is extracted by either longwall or continuous miner.
The coal is then transported to the Development projects surface by conveyor to stockpiles.
Coal from stockpiles is crushed and, BMA Expansions for a number of the operations, washed and processed.
Domestic coal In November 2011, approval was given for the development of is then transported to the nearby customer via conveyor, truck or rail.
the Caval Ridge mine project and expansion of the Peak Downs Export coal is loaded onto trains and transported to port.
mine in the Bowen Basin in Central Queensland, Australia, with an Energy Coal South Africa investment of US$2.1 billion BHP Billiton share.
The Caval Ridge Energy Coal South Africa known as BECSA operates four coal mine will be an open-cut dragline and truck and shovel operation, with coal railed to the BMA Hay Point Coal terminal.
mines, being Khutala, Klipspruit, Middelburg and Wolvekrans, in the Witbank region in the province of Mpumalanga, South Africa.
In response to the challenging environment, we have chosen to delay Production in FY2013 was 31.6 Mt.
The Khutala and Klipspruit mines indefinitely the 2.5 Mtpa 100 per cent basis expansion of Peak both have a reserve life of seven years, while Middelburg and Downs that is associated with the Caval Ridge mine development.
Wolvekrans have a reserve life of 24 years and 22 years, respectively.
The revised investment is US$1.9 billion BHP Billiton share for the In FY2013, approximately 56 per cent of BECSAs sales were to Caval Ridge mine project.
The 5.5 Mtpa capacity 100 per cent basis Eskom, the government-owned electricity utility in South Africa.
Caval Ridge mine was 71 per cent complete at 30 June 2013 and remains on schedule to deliver first production in CY2014.
The remaining production was exported predominantly to China and India, via the Richards Bay Coal Terminal RBCT, in which In March 2011, approval was given for three key metallurgical we own a 22 per cent share.
coal projects located in the Bowen Basin, with a total investment The conversion of BECSAs old order mining rights to new order mining of US$2.5 billion BHP Billiton share.
These projects have rights underpins BECSAs licence to operate.
In order to achieve this, contributed 4.9 Mt of annual mine capacity 100 per cent basis during FY2013, BECSA finalised an empowerment transaction with a through development of the Daunia mine and a new mining area Black-owned consortium, led by Pembani Group Proprietary Limited, at Broadmeadow, known as the Broadmeadow Life Extension project.
The third project is the expansion of the BMA Hay Point transferring an eight per cent equity interest in BECSA.
Coal terminal, delivering an additional 11 Mt of annual port The shareholders of BECSA also approved the implementation of capacity 100 per cent basis.
an Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP in which participating employees will hold a beneficial interest of two per cent equity in The new mining area at Broadmeadow was completed in FY2013 BECSA for a vested period.
The ESOP and empowerment transaction with first coal in March 2013.
First coal from Daunia mine also were implemented in January and May 2013, respectively, and occurred in March 2013 and the project was 97 per cent complete reduced our ownership interest in BECSA to 90 per cent.
The project was completed in the September quarter of CY2013.
First shipment from the expanded Hay Point New Mexico Coal Coal terminal was expected in CY2014: however, a review of both We own and operate the Navajo mine, located on Navajo Nation schedule and budget was undertaken during the year.
The investment land in New Mexico, United States, and the nearby San Juan mine has now been revised from US$1.25 billion to US$1.5 billion located in the state of New Mexico.
Each mine transports its BHP Billiton share and first shipment is now expected in CY2015.
production directly to a nearby power station.
The reserve lives The project was 66 per cent complete at 30 June 2013. of our mines are three years at Navajo mine and five years at Appin Area 9 Project San Juan Mine, which is the life of the current customer contracts.
New Mexico Coal produced 13.2 Mt in FY2013.
In June 2012, approval was given to invest US$845 million to sustain operations at Illawarra Coal, in southern New South Wales, New Mexico Coal and the Navajo Nation have entered into a Australia, by establishing a replacement mining area at Appin mine.
Memorandum of Understanding to pursue discussions to transition full The replacement area will have a production capacity of 3.5 Mtpa ownership of the Navajo Coal Company to the Navajo Nation.
Binding and will sustain Illawarra Coals production capacity at 9 Mtpa.
The agreements are expected to be signed during FY2014.
The Navajo Appin Area 9 Project was 44 per cent complete at 30 June 2013 and Nation has formed the Navajo Transitional Energy Company NTEC is expected to be operational in CY2016, whereupon it will replace to acquire Navajo Mine.
A subsidiary of New Mexico Coal and NTEC production at the West Cliff mine.
The project includes roadway expect to enter into a Mine Management Agreement where we expect development, new ventilation infrastructure, new and reconfigured the subsidiary to continue as mine manager until the end of CY2016.
conveyors and other mine services.
New South Wales Energy Coal IndoMet Coal Project New South Wales Energy Coals operating asset is the Mt Arthur IndoMet Coal comprises seven coal contracts of work CCoWs Coal open-cut mine in the Hunter Valley region of New South Wales, covering a large metallurgical coal resource in Kalimantan, Australia.
New South Wales Energy Coal produced 18.0 Mt in Indonesia, which was discovered by BHP Billiton in the 1990s.
FY2013 and has a reserve life of 40 years.
In FY2013, we delivered Following an assessment of the importance of local participation approximately six per cent of Mt Arthurs production to a local in developing the project in FY2010, we sold a 25 per cent interest power station and exported the rest predominantly to Japan and in the project to a subsidiary of PT Adaro Energy TBK.
We retain China, via the port of Newcastle.
75 per cent of the project and hold management responsibility.
We are a 35.5 per cent shareholder in Newcastle Coal Infrastructure Early work on infrastructure development for the project is underway.
Group, a jointly controlled entity that is operating the Newcastle IndoMet remains a valuable future option for our Coal Business.
Third Port export coal loading facility and currently has a project in execution see Development projects below.
We also have a Energy Coal 1.75 per cent interest in Port Waratah Coal Services Limited, which Our Coal Business is one of the worlds largest producers and operates two coal loading facilities at the Port of Newcastle.
marketers of export energy coal also known as thermal or steaming coal and is a domestic supplier to the electricity generation industry Cerrejn in Australia, South Africa and the United States.
Our domestic sales We have a one-third interest in Cerrejn Coal Company, which owns are generally made to nearby power stations under long-term fixed and operates one of the largest open-cut export coal mines in the price or cost plus arrangements.
Our export sales are delivered to world, in the La Guajira province of Colombia.
Cerrejn also owns power generators and some industrial users in Asia, Europe and the and operates integrated rail and port facilities through which the United States, under contracts that are generally index linked.
majority of production is exported to European, Middle Eastern, Energy Coal produced approximately 72.9 Mt in FY2013.
North American and Asian customers.
In FY2013, our share of Cerrejn production was approximately 10.0 Mt.
Cerrejn has Our Energy Coal Assets comprise both open-cut and underground a reserve life of 19 years.
At our open-cut mines, overburden is removed after blasting, using either draglines or truck and shovel.
Coal is then extracted In FY2012, Cerrejn commenced an expansion project P40, which using excavators or loaders and loaded onto trucks to be taken to is expected to increase our share of production from 10.7 Mtpa to 13.3 Mtpa see Development projects below.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 37 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Energy Coal mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
The table should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source & condition Energy coal South Africa Khutala 100 km east of Public road BHP Billiton 90% BHP Billiton BECSA holds a Production Combination Eskom Crushing plant Johannesburg, 100% share of commenced 1984 open-cut and national power for energy coal Domestic coal Newshelf Gauteng Converted Mining underground supplier under transported 1129 Proprietary Open-cut Nominal capacity: Province, Right, granted long-term by overland Limited BEE operations 1996 Produces a medium 18 Mtpa South Africa October 2011. contracts conveyor to SPV 8% rank bituminous Commenced Smaller crusher Kendal Power Mining Right thermal coal Eyami Trust mining thermal to beneficiate Station was amended non-coking Management metallurgical coal metallurgical coal 15 February 2013 Company RF for domestic Nominal capacity: to include Portion 16 Proprietary market 2003 1.5 Mtpa of Zondagsvlei 9 IS Limited ESOP 2% Middelburg Wolvekrans 20 km Public road BHP Billiton 90% BHP Billiton BECSA and Tavistock Production Open-cut Eskom under Beneficiation southeast are joint holders of commenced 1982 long-term facilities: tips and Export coal Newshelf Produces a medium of Witbank, 3 Converted Mining contracts crushing plants, transported 1129 Proprietary Middelburg Mine rank bituminous Mpumalanga Rights in the 2 export wash to RBCT by Limited BEE Services MMS thermal coal, most Province, previous JV ratio plants, middlings third party rail SPV 8% and Duvha of which can be South Africa 84:16 wash plant, 558 km Opencast became beneficiated for the Eyami Trust fide-stone plant BECSA is the 100% one operation European or Asian Domestic coal Management holder of a fourth in 1995 export markets Nominal capacity: transported Company RF Converted Mining 41.4 Mtpa by conveyor to Proprietary DouglasRight Duvha Power Limited Middelburg Station ESOP 2% All 4 Rights comprise Optimisation the Middelburg project Previous JV 1 Mine Complex completed 84:16 with July 2010 Glencore The Converted Xstrata Plc Mining Rights were Mine was split through granted during into Middelburg Tavistock October and and Wolvekrans 2 Collieries Pty December 2011 during FY2011 Limited was amended in February 2008 Klipspruit 30 km west Public road BHP Billiton 90% BHP Billiton BECSA holds a Production Open-cut Eskom, under Beneficiation of Witbank, Converted Mining commenced 2003 long-term facilities: tip and Export coal Newshelf Produces a medium Mpumalanga Right, granted contracts crushing plant, transported 1129 Proprietary Expansion project rank bituminous Province, 11 October 2011 export wash plant to RBCT by Limited BEE completed thermal coal, most South Africa third party rail SPV 8% FY2010, includes of which can be Nominal capacity 611 km 50% share beneficiated for the Phola Coal Eyami Trust in Phola European or Asian Processing Plant: Management Coal Plant export markets 16 Mtpa Company RF Proprietary Run of mine Limited ROM capacity: ESOP 2% 8.0 Mtpa at Phola Coal Plant full ramp-up in JV with Anglo Inyosi Coal 50% Australia Mt Arthur Coal Approximately Public road 100% BHP Billiton Various mining Production Open-cut Local energy Beneficiation 125 km leases and licences commenced 2002 providers facilities: Domestic coal Produces a medium northwest expire 20102032 coal handling, transported Government rank bituminous of Newcastle, preparation, by conveyor Renewal is being approval permits thermal coal washing plants New South to Bayswater sought for expired extraction of non-coking Wales, Power Station mining leases up to 36 Mtpa Nominal capacity: Australia of run of mine in excess of 18 Mtpa Export coal The original coal from transported approvals permit underground by third party mining and other and open-cut rail to activities to continue operations, Newcastle port during renewal with open-cut application extraction limited to 32 Mtpa 1 This includes the Wolvekrans and Middelburg collieries and excludes the portion Tavistock obtained as a result of the amendment of the Douglas-Tavistock JV agreement.
2 JV agreement has been amended so that upon the Department of Mineral Resources amending the Converted Mining Rights, the mining area will be divided into an area wholly owned and operated by Tavistock and an area wholly owned and operated by BECSA as the new Douglas-Middelburg mine.
Applications were made in December 2008 to the Department of Mineral Resources to amend the Converted Mining Rights, but a date for execution has not yet been provided.
Ministerial consent to amend the Mining Rights has been granted.
38 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Energy Coal mining operations continued Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source & condition United States Navajo 30 km Public road 100% BHP Billiton Long-term lease Production Open-cut Four Corners Stackers and southwest from Navajo Nation commenced 1963 Power Plant reclaimers used Coal transported Produces a medium of Farmington, continues for as to size and blend by rail to Four rank bituminous New Mexico, long as coal can coal to contract Corners Power thermal coal US be economically specifications Plant non-coking suitable produced and sold for the domestic Nominal capacity: in paying quantities market only 7.4 Mtpa San Juan 25 km west Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases from Surface mine Underground San Juan Coal sized and of Farmington, federal and state operations Generating blended to contract Coal transported Produces a medium New Mexico, governments commenced 1973 Station specifications using by truck and rank bituminous US stockpiles conveyor to Leases viable as Development thermal coal San Juan long as minimum of underground non-coking suitable Nominal capacity: Generating production criteria mine to replace for the domestic 5.6 Mtpa Station achieved open-cut mine market only approved 2000 Colombia Cerrejn Open-cut Local Beneficiation La Guajira Public road BHP Billiton Cerrejn Mining leases Original mine Colombian facilities: crushing province, 33.33% Coal expire 2034 began producing Coal exported Produces a medium power system plant with capacity Colombia Company in 1976 by companyAnglo American rank bituminous of 32 Mtpa and owned rail to 33.33% BHP Billiton thermal coal washing plant Puerto Bolivar Glencore interest acquired non-coking, 150 km Xstrata 33.33% in 2000 suitable for the Nominal capacity: export market 3 Mtpa Our Aluminium Assets include the following operations: Development projects Boddington Worsley Cerrejn P40 Project On 18 August 2011, we announced a US$437 million BHP Billiton Boddington Worsley is an integrated bauxite mining alumina refining operation located in Western Australia.
The Boddington share investment in the expansion of Cerrejn, known as the P40 Project, which will enable Cerrejns thermal coal production bauxite mine supplies bauxite ore to the Worsley alumina refinery via a 62-kilometre long conveying system.
We own 86 per cent to increase by 8 Mtpa to approximately 40 Mtpa.
The expansion project is expected to increase our share of production from of the mine and the refinery.
It is our sole integrated bauxite, 10.7 Mtpa to 13.3 Mtpa.
Construction commenced in CY2011 with mining alumina refining asset, and one of the largest and completion expected in CY2013.
At 30 June 2013 the project was lowest-cost refineries in the world.
Worsley is near completion 71 per cent complete.
The project scope includes a second berth of a ramp-up of production from the Efficiency and Growth and dual quadrant ship loader at Cerrejns 100 per cent owned project that will increase the capacity of the refinery to 4.6 Mtpa and operated Puerto Bolivar, along with necessary mine, rail and 100 per cent of alumina.
Completion is expected by the end associated supply chain infrastructure.
Our share of Worsleys FY2013 production was 3.7 Mt of alumina.
Worsleys export customers include our own Hillside, Newcastle Port Third Phase Expansion Bayside and Mozal smelters in southern Africa.
Boddington has On 31 August 2011, we announced a US$367 million BHP Billiton a reserve life of 17 years.
share investment in the third stage development of the Newcastle Minerao Rio do Norte Coal Infrastructure Groups coal handling facility in Newcastle, Australia.
The port expansion project is expected to increase total We own a 14.8 per cent investment in Minerao Rio do Norte capacity at the coal terminal from 53 Mtpa to 66 Mtpa.
This is MRN, which owns and operates a large bauxite mine, located expected to increase New South Wales Energy Coals allocation by a at Porto Trombetas in the province of Par, Brazil.
First coal on ship, being the first ship Alumar loading through the new facility, was achieved in June 2013, ahead Alumar is an integrated alumina refinery aluminium smelter.
At 30 June 2013, the project was 76 per cent complete.
36 per cent of the Alumar refinery and 40 per cent of the smelter.
5 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business Alcoa operates both facilities.
The operations, and their integrated port facility, are located at So Lus in the Maranho province of Aluminium Brazil.
Alumar sources the majority of its bauxite from MRN.
During Our Aluminium Business has a portfolio of assets in three stages FY2013, approximately 25 per cent of Alumars alumina production of the aluminium value chain: mining bauxite, refining bauxite into was used to feed the smelter, while the remainder was exported.
alumina and smelting alumina into aluminium metal.
We are a major Our share of Alumars FY2013 saleable production was 1,205 kt producer of aluminium, with total production in FY2013 of 1.2 Mt.
of alumina and 154 kt of aluminium.
We also produced 4.9 Mt of alumina.
Hillside and Bayside During FY2013, we consumed 33 per cent of our alumina production in our aluminium smelters and sold the balance to third party Our wholly owned Hillside and Bayside smelters are located at Richards Bay, South Africa.
Hillside is the largest aluminium smelter smelters.
Our alumina and aluminium customers are located principally in western Europe and Asia.
Our alumina sales are a in the southern hemisphere.
In 2009, Bayside reduced smelting mixture of legacy long-term contract sales at LME-linked prices and, capacity to approximately 97 kilotonnes per annum ktpa in support increasingly, long-term contracts priced from an alumina index or of a national energy conservation scheme.
Hillside imports alumina spot negotiated prices.
Prices for our aluminium sales are generally from our Worsley refinery and Alcoa, while Bayside imports all of its linked to prevailing LME prices.
We have a diversified customer alumina from Worsley.
Both Hillside and Bayside source power from portfolio, with demand driven by end-use consumption in Eskom, the South African state utility, under long-term contracts, transportation, packaging, construction and household items.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 39 2 Information on the Company continued 2.2.
5 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business continued Mozal with prices linked to the LME price of aluminium except for Hillside We own 47.1 per cent of and operate the Mozal aluminium smelter located near Maputo, Mozambique.
Mozal sources power Potline 3, the price of which is linked to the South African and US producer price indices.
Potline capacity at Hillside returned to generated by Hydro Cahora Basa via Motraco, a transmission joint venture between Eskom and the national electricity utilities of normal during FY2013 after a major unplanned outage in the March 2012 quarter.
Production in FY2013 for Hillside was 665 kt and Mozambique and Swaziland.
Our share of Mozals FY2013 production was 264 kt.
Information on Aluminium mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source & condition Bauxite Boddington bauxite mine Boddington, Public road BHP Billiton 86% BHP Billiton Mining leases from Opened 1983 Open-cut JV-owned Crushing plant 123 km Worsley Western Australia powerline Nominal capacity: Ore transported Sojitz Alumina Significantly Surficial southeast of Alumina Government expire connected 19 Mtpa bauxite to Worsley extended 2000 gibbsite-rich 4% Perth, Western Pty Ltd over the period to Worsley alumina refinery lateritic Japan Alumina Australia 20142032, all alumina by a 62 km weathering Associates 10% with 21-year refinery site conveyor of Darling Ownership structure renewal available Range rocks of operator as 2 subleases from per Worsley JV Alcoa of Australia Minerao Rio do Norte Porto Sealed road and BHP Billiton 14.8% MRN Mining rights Production Open-cut On-site fuel oil Crushing facilities, Trombetas, 28 km of rail granted by Brazilian commenced generators conveyors, wash Alcoa and affiliates Lateritic weathering 416 km east of connects mine Government until 1979 plant 18.2% of nepheline Manaus, Brazil area with Porto reserves exhausted Expanded syenite occurring Nominal capacity: Vale 40% Trombetas 2003 primarily as 18 Mtpa washed Rio Tinto Alcan 12% gibbsite in a clay bauxite Votorantim 10% matrix overlain by Hydro 5% clay sediments Information on Aluminium smelters and refineries Smelter, refinery Title, leases Nominal production or processing plant Location Ownership Operator or options Product capacity Power source Aluminium and alumina Hillside Aluminium smelter Richards Bay, 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title Standard 726 ktpa primary Eskom national 200 km north to property, aluminium ingots aluminium power supplier under of Durban, plant, equipment long-term contracts South Africa Leases over Contract prices for harbour facilities Hillside 1 and 2 linked to LME aluminium price Prices for Hillside 3 linked to SA and US producer price indices Bayside 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title Primary 97 ktpa primary Eskom, under Aluminium smelter Richards Bay, 200 km north to property, aluminium, slab aluminium on long-term contract of Durban, plant, equipment products remaining Potline A Contract price linked South Africa to LME aluminium price Mozal Aluminium smelter 17 km from BHP Billiton 47.1% BHP Billiton 50-year Standard 561 ktpa Motraco under Maputo, of Mozal SARL government aluminium ingots long-term contract Mozambique concession Mitsubishi 25% Contract price linked to to use the land Industrial Development SA producer price index Corporation of Renewable South Africa Ltd 24% for 50 years Mozambique Government 3.9% Worsley Alumina refinery 55 km BHP Billiton 86% BHP Billiton 2,480 ha refinery Metallurgical 4.6 Mtpa JV-owned on-site coal northeast Worsley lease from grade alumina power station, third party Sojitz Alumina 4% of Bunbury, Alumina Western Australia on-site gas-fired steam Japan Alumina Western Pty Ltd Government power generation plant, Associates 10% Australia expires 2025 third party leased on-site Ownership structure multifuel co-generation 21-year renewal of operator as steam and power available per Worsley JV generation plant 40 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Information on Aluminium smelters and refineries continued Smelter, refinery Title, leases Nominal production or processing plant Location Ownership Operator or options Product capacity Power source Aluminium and alumina continued Alumar Alumina refinery and So Lus, Aluminium smelter: Alcoa All assets Alumina and Refinery: Electronorte Brazilian aluminium smelter Maranho, BHP Billiton 40% operates held freehold aluminium ingots 3.5 Mtpa alumina public power generation Brazil both facilities concessionaire, under Alcoa 60% Smelter: long-term contract 447 ktpa primary Alumina refinery: aluminium BHP Billiton 36% Alcoa and affiliates 54% Rio Tinto 10% 44.4 per cent in HMM.
The remaining 26 per cent of HMM is owned Development projects under the terms of the South African Black Economic Empowerment Worsley Efficiency and Growth project BEE legislation, which reflects our commitment to economic In May 2008, we announced the Boards approval of an expansion transformation in South Africa.
In Australia, we own 60 per cent project to increase the capacity of the Worsley refinery from of Groote Eylandt Mining Company Pty Ltd GEMCO and we have 3.5 Mtpa of alumina to 4.6 Mtpa 100 per cent capacity through an effective interest of 60 per cent in GEMCOs wholly owned expanded mining operations at Boddington, additional refinery subsidiary, Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company Pty Ltd capacity and upgraded port facilities.
Our Manganese Assets, Manganese Australia and achieved first production in March 2012 and continued to Manganese South Africa, comprise the following: ramp-up throughout FY2013, achieving record production for the asset.
Full production is on track to be achieved by the end Mines of CY2013.
As at 30 June 2013, total capital expenditure was HMM US$3.1 billion.
HMM owns the Mamatwan open-cut mine and the Wessels underground mine.
Manganese high-grade ore from these mines is Guinea Alumina particularly valuable to alloy producers because of the value in use On 9 July 2013, we completed the sale of our one-third interest differential over low-grade ore. Mined ore is processed into a in a joint venture that was undertaking a feasibility study into saleable product through a crushing and wet screening operation, the construction of a 10 Mtpa bauxite mine, an alumina refinery with some ore undergoing further processing in the form of dense with processing capacity exceeding 3.3 Mtpa and associated media separation and sintering.
More than 25 per cent of the ore infrastructure, located approximately 110 kilometres from the mined is beneficiated into alloy at Metalloys, with the rest being port of Kamsar in Guinea.
exported via road and rail through Port Elizabeth approximately Manganese 950 kilometres and Durban approximately 1,100 kilometres.
Our Manganese Business produces a combination of ores and alloys In FY2013, the total manganese ore production was 3,490 kt.
from sites in South Africa and Australia.
We are the worlds largest Wessels has a reserve life of 48 years and Mamatwan has a reserve producer of manganese ore and one of the top global producers life of 20 years.
Manganese alloy is a key input into the GEMCO steelmaking process.
Manganese high-grade ore is particularly As a result of its location, 16 kilometres from our port facilities at valuable to alloy producers because of the value in use differential Milner Bay, and its simple, open-cut mining operation, GEMCO is over low-grade ore.
The value in use differential is the degree one of the worlds lowest-cost manganese ore producers.
These to which high-grade ore is proportionately more efficient than operations, consisting of crushing, screening, washing and dense low-grade ore to process in the production of alloy.
media separation, combined with its high-grade ore and relative Our strategy is to focus on upstream resource assets.
Manganese proximity to Asian export markets, make GEMCO unique among alloy smelters are a key conduit of manganese alloy and ore into the worlds manganese mines.
FY2013 production of manganese steelmaking and enable us to access markets with an optimal mix ore was 5,027 kt.
GEMCO has a reserve life of 12 years.
of ore and alloy, optimise production to best suit market conditions Alloy Plants and give us technical insight into the performance of our ores Metalloys in smelters.
The Samancor Manganese Metalloys alloy plant is one of the largest Approximately 80 per cent of our ore production is sold directly manganese alloy producers in the world.
Due to its size and access to external customers, predominantly located in China, South Korea to high-quality feedstock from HMM operations, it is also one and India, and the remainder is used as feedstock in our alloy of the lowest-cost alloy producers of ferromanganese.
Manganese alloy is sold to steel mills, mainly in Europe and only produces highand medium-carbon ferromanganese, after North America.
Manganese ore and alloy are increasingly sold on silicomanganese production ceased due to the permanent closure short-term or spot contracts, with prices linked to published indices.
of the energy-intensive Metalloys South plant in January 2012.
Neither commodity is exchange traded, and prices are largely The high-carbon ferromanganese furnace M14 at the Metalloys determined by supply and demand balances.
Ore is priced per dry West Plant was completed in March 2013.
This furnace has added metric tonne unit and referenced to a benchmark ore of 43 per cent an additional 130 ktpa capacity of high-carbon ferromanganese, manganese grade cost insurance freight CIF China.
Alloy is priced but replaces the now-closed 120 ktpa silicomanganese South Plant, per tonne, typically on a delivered basis DDP.
Manganese taking Metalloys capacity to 500 ktpa.
The M14 furnace contributes production in FY2013 was 8,517 kt of ore and 608 kt of alloy.
to power efficiency at the Metalloys site as it adds to the sites own We own and manage all of our manganese mining operations and generation capacity, utilising the furnace off-gases.
alloy plants through the Samancor Manganese joint ventures with TEMCO Anglo American.
In South Africa, we own 60 per cent of Samancor TEMCO is a medium-sized producer of high-carbon ferromanganese, Manganese Proprietary Ltd, which operates the Metalloys division.
silicomanganese and sinter using ore shipped from GEMCO, Samancor Manganese owns 74 per cent of Hotazel Manganese primarily using hydroelectric power.
Mines Pty Ltd HMM, which gives us an effective interest of BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 41 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Manganese mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
These tables should be read in conjunction with the production see section 2.3.
Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source use & condition Manganese ore Hotazel Manganese Mines HMM Mamatwan Kalahari Basin, Public road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Existing New Mamatwan Mamatwan: Eskom beneficiation plant: South Africa 44.4% Order Rights commissioned open-cut national power Most ore and primary, secondary valid until 2035 1964 supplier under Mamatwan and sinter products Anglo American Wessels: and tertiary crushing contracts Wessels mines transported 29.6% Wessels underground at regulated with associated by rail commissioned Ntsimbintle 9% Banded iron prices screening plants 1973 Approximately NCAB 7% manganese Dense medium 29% of ore Iziko 5% ore type separator and sinter beneficiated HMM Education plant capacity locally, balance Trust 5% 1 1 Mtpa sinter exported via Port Elizabeth Wessels: primary approximately and secondary 950 km and crushing circuits Durban with associated 1 approximately screening 1,100 km Groote Eylandt Mining Company GEMCO Groote Eylandt, Ore transported BHP Billiton 60% BHP Billiton All leases on Commissioned Open-cut On-site Beneficiation Northern 16 km from Aboriginal land 1965 diesel power process: crushing, Anglo American Sandstone Territory, concentrator by held under generation screening, washing 40% claystone Australia road train Aboriginal Land and dense media sedimentary to port at Rights Northern separation manganese Milner Bay Territory Act 1976 ore type Produces lump Valid until 2031 and fines products Capacity: 4.2 wet Mtpa 1 Capacity: Mamatwan approximately 3.5 Mtpa of ore: Wessels approximately 1 Mtpa of ore. Information on Manganese smelters, refineries and processing plants Smelter, refinery Title, leases Nominal production or processing plant Location Ownership Operator or options Product capacity Power source Manganese alloy Metalloys Manganese alloy plant Meyerton, BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Freehold title over Manganese alloys, 410 ktpa high-carbon Eskom division of Samancor South Africa 60% property, plant including high-carbon ferromanganese 30 MW of internal Manganese Pty Ltd and equipment ferromanganese, including hot metal Anglo American power generated from refined medium- 90 ktpa medium- 40% furnace off-gases carbon ferromanganese carbon ferromanganese alloy Tasmanian Electro Metallurgical Company TEMCO Manganese alloy plant Bell Bay, BHP Billiton BHP Billiton Freehold title over Ferroalloys, including 130 ktpa high-carbon Aurora Energy Tasmania, 60% property, plant high-carbon ferromanganese On-site energy recovery Australia and equipment ferromanganese, 125 ktpa Anglo American unit generates 11 MW silicomanganese silicomanganese 40% for internal use and sinter 350 ktpa sinter Development projects infrastructure required to expand the mine to 1.5 Mtpa.
The first phase of the project is expected to be completed in FY2014 at a GEMCO expansion cost of US$106 million US$63.6 million BHP Billiton share, and will The US$279 million GEMCO Expansion Project GEEP2 comprise the construction of the ventilation shaft and development US$167 million BHP Billiton share, approved in July 2011, is nearing of the associated underground ventilation network.
Phase 2 of the completion and is expected to be commissioned during the latter project is currently undergoing a feasibility study, and will comprise half of CY2013.
GEEP2 is expected to increase GEMCOs capacity the completion of the underground crusher and mobile workshops.
from 4.2 Mtpa to 4.8 Mtpa through the introduction of a dense media circuit by-pass facility.
The expansion is also expected to Metalloys address key infrastructure constraints by increasing road and port The high-carbon M14 furnace at the Metalloys West Plant was capacity to 5.9 Mtpa, creating 1.1 Mtpa of additional capacity for completed in March 2013 with a total cost of US$99 million future expansions.
US$59.4 million BHP Billiton share.
HMM Samancor Gabon Manganese project The central block development project at the Wessels underground During 2013, we withdrew from the Samancor Gabon Manganese mine is being progressed in two phases.
The first phase is to project following the completion of the feasibility study.
ensure key ventilation infrastructure is put in place to maintain current production levels, while the second phase will complete 42 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
5 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business continued Ore from our Mt Keith mine is concentrated at Mt Keith and then transported by road approximately 110 kilometres to Leinster for Nickel drying.
Ore from Cliffs and Leinster mines is concentrated and dried Our Nickel Business primarily supplies customers in the stainless at Leinster.
Dry nickel concentrate is then transported via road steel industry, principally in northern Asia and western Europe.
and rail approximately 375 kilometres to our Kalgoorlie smelter.
Nickel is an important component of the most commonly used types Concentrate from Kambalda is transported via rail approximately of stainless steel.
We also supply nickel to other markets, including 60 kilometres to our Kalgoorlie smelter.
Small volumes of concentrate the specialty alloy, foundry, chemicals and refractory material are sold into the external market: however, the majority of volumes industries.
We are a major producer of nickel with total production are processed into nickel matte, containing approximately in FY2013 of 154 kt of contained nickel.
We sell our nickel products 68 per cent nickel.
In FY2013, we exported approximately at various stages including concentrate, matte and metal under a 34 per cent of our nickel matte production.
The remaining nickel mix of long-term, medium-term and spot volume contracts, with matte is transported, principally by rail, to our Kwinana nickel prices linked to the LME nickel price.
refinery, a distance of approximately 650 kilometres.
The nickel Our Nickel Assets include the following operations: matte is processed into nickel metal in the form of LME grade briquettes and nickel powder, together with a range of saleable Nickel West by-products.
Our wholly owned Western Australian Nickel Asset, Nickel West, consists of an integrated system of mines, concentrators, a smelter Nickel West production in FY2013 was 103 kt of contained nickel.
We mine nickel-bearing sulphide ore at our Mt Keith, Cerro Matoso Leinster and Cliffs Operations north of Kalgoorlie.
We operate Cerro Matoso, our 99.94 per cent owned Nickel Asset in Colombia, concentrator plants at Mt Keith and at Leinster, which also combines a lateritic nickel ore deposit with a ferronickel smelter.
Leinster and Mt Keith have reserve Cerro Matoso is one of the largest producers of ferronickel and lives of eight and 12 years, respectively: both have options for is one of the lowest-cost producers of ferronickel.
Cliffs is a high-grade underground mine with produces high-purity, low-carbon ferronickel granules.
Cerro Matoso a reserve life of four years.
has an estimated reserve life of 28 years.
Production in FY2013 was We also operate the Kambalda concentrator south of Kalgoorlie, 50.8 kt of nickel in ferronickel form.
where we source ore through tolling and concentrate purchase During FY2013, Cerro Matoso successfully extended its mining arrangements with third parties in the Kambalda region.
We also concessions with the Colombian Government until 2029, with have purchase agreements in place for the direct purchase a conditional extension until 2044.
The agreement includes of concentrate, which we re-pulp, dry and blend with other an increase in the royalty rate from 12 per cent to 13 per cent.
The extension of the contract term to 2044 is conditional on Cerro Matoso increasing processing capacity by 50 per cent by 2022.
Information on Nickel mining operations The following table contains additional details of our mining operations.
Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source & condition Nickel Mt Keith 485 km north Private road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Officially Open-cut On-site third Concentration of Kalgoorlie, granted by commissioned party gas-fired plant with a Nickel Disseminated Western Western Australia 1995 by WMC turbines nominal capacity: concentrate textured magmatic Australia Government 11.5 Mtpa of ore transported by Acquired 2005 nickel-sulphide Contracts road to Leinster Key leases expire as part of WMC mineralisation, expire nickel operations 20152034 acquisition associated with January 2014 for drying and a metamorphosed Renewals at Contract on-shipping ultramafic intrusion government renewal discretion negotiations progressing Natural gas sourced and transported under separate long-term contracts Leinster 375 km north Public road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Production Underground On-site third Concentration of Kalgoorlie, granted by commenced 1979 and open-cut party gas-fired plant with a Nickel Western Western Australia turbines nominal capacity: concentrate Acquired 2005 Steeply dipping Australia Government 3 Mtpa of ore shipped by as part of WMC disseminated and Contracts road and rail Key leases expire acquisition massive textured expire to Kalgoorlie 20192034 nickel-sulphide January 2014 nickel smelter mineralisation, Renewals at Contract associated with government renewal metamorphosed discretion negotiations ultramafic lava progressing flows and Natural gas intrusions sourced and transported under separate long-term contracts BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 43 2 Information on the Company continued Information on Nickel mining operations continued Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source & condition Nickel continued Cliffs 481 km north Private road 100% BHP Billiton Mining leases Production Underground Supplied from Mine site of Kalgoorlie, granted by commenced 2008 Mt Keith Nickel ore Steeply dipping Western Western Australia transported by Acquired 2005 massive textured Australia Government road to Leinster as part of WMC nickel-sulphide nickel operations Key leases expire acquisition mineralisation, for further 20252028 associated with processing metamorphosed Renewals at ultramafic government lava flows discretion Cerro Matoso Montelibano, Public road BHP Billiton BHP Billiton New terms agreed Mining Open-cut National Ferronickel Crdoba, 99.94% effective 1 October commenced 1980 electricity grid smelter and Nickel-laterite Colombia 2012 until 2029 under contracts refinery integrated Employees and Nickel production mineralisation with conditional expiring with the mine former employees started 1982 formed from extension to 2044 December 2014 0.06% residual weathering Beneficiation plant: Ownership if ore processing of ophiolitic Domestic primary and increased to 53% capacity is increased peridotite natural gas secondary crusher in 1989 and to 50% by 2022 for drier and 99.94% in 2007 Nominal capacity: kiln operation 50 ktpa of nickel Expansion project supplied by in ferronickel form to double pipeline from installed capacity Actual production national grid completed 2001 depends on nickel Gas supply grade from the mine contracts expiring December 2021 Information on Nickel smelters, refineries and processing plants Smelter, refinery Title, leases Nominal production or processing plant Location Ownership Operator or options Product capacity Power source Nickel Kambalda Nickel concentrator 56 km south 100% BHP Billiton Mineral leases Concentrate 1.6 Mtpa ore On-site third party of Kalgoorlie, granted by containing gas-fired turbines Ore sourced through Western Western Australia approximately tolling and concentrate Contracts expire Australia Government 15% nickel purchase arrangements January 2014 Key leases with third parties Contract renewal expire 2028 in Kambalda region negotiations progressing Renewals at Natural gas sourced and government transported under separate discretion long-term contracts Kalgoorlie Nickel smelter Kalgoorlie, 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title over Matte containing 111 ktpa nickel matte On-site third party Western the property approximately gas-fired turbines Australia 68% nickel Contracts expire January 2014 Contract renewal negotiations progressing Natural gas sourced and transported under separate long-term contracts Kwinana Nickel refinery 30 km south 100% BHP Billiton Freehold title LME grade 65 ktpa nickel metal A combination of power of Perth, over the property nickel briquettes, generated by Southern Western nickel powder Cross Energy and Australia distributed via Western Also intermediate Powers network and products, including power sourced from copper sulphide, other generators on the , Western Power network ammonium-sulphate Development projects The Nickel Business had no active development projects in FY2013.
44 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.2.
6 Divested businesses In FY2012, sales from EKATI 100 per cent terms represented approximately two per cent of current world rough diamond During FY2013, we sold our interests in the diamonds business supply by weight and approximately six per cent by value.
During and the titanium minerals business and exited these industries.
FY2013, up until the date of sale, EKATI produced approximately Diamonds 972 thousand carats of rough diamonds BHP Billiton share.
Our diamonds business comprised the EKATI Diamond Mine in the Titanium minerals Northwest Territories of Canada.
Our interest in EKATI consisted of Our interest in titanium minerals consisted of a 37.76 per cent an 80 per cent operated interest in the Core Zone Joint Venture, non-operated interest in Richards Bay Minerals RBM.
RBM is comprising existing operations and a 58.8 per cent interest in the a major producer of titania slag, high-purity pig iron, rutile and Buffer Zone Joint Venture, that primarily focused on exploration zircon from mineral sands.
On 10 April 2013 we sold our 80 per cent operated interest in EKATI to the Dominion Diamond Corporation for US$553 million In February 2012, we announced that we had exercised an option after adjustments.
to sell our non-operated interest in RBM to the operator of RBM, Rio Tinto.
The sale was completed on 7 September 2012, for proceeds of US$1.7 billion after adjustments.
Information on the diamonds and titanium minerals mining operations The following table contains additional details of mining operations.
Mine type & Mine & Means Title, leases mineralisation Facilities, use location of access Ownership Operator or options History style Power source & condition Diamonds EKATI Diamond Mine 310 km Aircraft Core Zone JV BHP Billiton Mining leases Production began Fox: open-cut JV-owned and Crushers, washers northeast of granted by 1997 Koala and Koala operated diesel scrubber and grinder Ice road open BHP Billiton 80% Yellowknife, Canadian North: underground power station and heavy media approximately Mine and Buffer Zone JV Northwest Government separator 10 weeks per year processing Eocene age BHP Billiton Territories, until 2022 plant began kimberlite pipes Magnetics and 58.8% Canada operating 1998 dominantly X-ray sorters for Remaining volcaniclastic infill diamond recovery Ownership interest held increased with Fuel storage by 2 individuals acquisition Entire interest of Dia Met in Core Zone and Minerals in 2001 Buffer Zone sold on 10 April 2013 Titanium minerals Richards Bay Minerals 1050 km north Public road BHP Billiton Rio Tinto Long-term RBM formed 1976 Dune sand Eskom 4 dune sand of Richards Bay, 37.76% economic renewable dredging national dredge mines, Product Fifth mine KwaZulu-Natal, interest through mineral leases utility minor transported by added 2000 Quaternary age South Africa 50% interest from South African company supplementary public rail to port coastal dune One mining plant in the 2 legal Government subject dry mining deposits heavy decommissioned entities that to South African mineral sands Gravity separation in 2008 comprise RBM, Mining Charter concentrated produces heavy Richards Bay by wave and mineral concentrate Mining Pty Ltd wind action which is trucked and Richards Bay to central processing Titanium Pty Ltd plant to produce RBM functions rutile, zircon as a single and ilmenite economic entity Nominal titanium 1 Entire interest slag capacity sold on 1.05 Mtpa 7 September 2012 1 Smelter processes ilmenite to produce titanium dioxide slag and high-purity iron.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 45 2 Information on the Company continued 2.3 Production 2.3.
1 Petroleum The table below details Petroleums historical net crude oil and condensate, natural gas and natural gas liquids production, primarily by geographic segment, for each of the three years ended 30 June 2013, 2012 and 2011.
We have shown volumes of marketable production after deduction of applicable royalties, fuel and flare.
We have included in the table average production costs per unit of production and average sales prices for oil and condensate and natural gas for each of those periods.
BHP Billiton Group share of production Year ended 30 June 2013 2012 2011 Production volumes Crude oil and condensate 000 of barrels Australia 25,922 31,145 40,447 United States 38,724 30,824 30,157 5 Other 7,866 9,232 9,987 Total crude oil and condensate 72,512 71,201 80,591 Natural gas billion cubic feet Australia 276.13 249.97 274.74 United States 489.03 456.69 49.09 5 Other 109.11 115.60 81.23 Total natural gas 874.27 822.26 405.06 1 Natural Gas Liquids 000 of barrels Australia 7,927 7,943 7,962 United States 9,575 5,744 1,980 5 Other 37 398 1,341 1 Total NGL 17,539 14,085 11,283 2 Total production of petroleum products million barrels of oil equivalent Australia 79.87 80.75 94.20 United States 129.80 112.69 40.32 5 Other 26.09 28.90 24.86 2 Total production of petroleum products million barrels of oil equivalent 235.76 222.34 159.38 Average sales price Crude oil and condensate US$ per barrel Australia 110.83 114.33 96.32 United States 102.33 106.22 90.01 5 Other 107.46 113.26 90.69 Total crude oil and condensate 105.91 110.66 93.29 Natural gas US$ per thousand cubic feet Australia 4.73 4.62 4.21 United States 3.29 2.82 3.48 5 Other 4.42 4.13 3.92 Total natural gas 3.76 3.40 4.00 Natural Gas Liquids US$ per barrel Australia 63.13 61.61 58.05 United States 30.41 45.72 49.79 5 Other 28.61 55.06 59.54 Total NGL 45.70 54.85 56.77 3 4 Total Average production cost US$ per barrel of oil equivalent Australia 8.23 7.95 5.75 United States 6.27 5.91 6.45 5 Other 8.45 7.84 8.39 3 4 Total Average production cost US$ per barrel of oil equivalent 7.18 6.90 6.34 1 LPG and ethane are reported as Natural Gas Liquids NGL.
2 Total barrels of oil equivalent boe conversion is based on the following: 6,000 scf of natural gas equals one boe.
3 Average production costs include direct and indirect costs relating to the production of hydrocarbons and the foreign exchange effect of translating local currency denominated costs into US dollars, but excludes ad valorem and severance taxes.
4 Total average production costs reported here do not include the costs to transport our produced hydrocarbons to the point of sale.
Total production costs, including transportation costs, were US$10.85 per boe, US$10.00 per boe and US$7.37 per boe for the years ended 30 June 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
5 Other is comprised of Algeria, Pakistan, Trinidad and Tobago, and the United Kingdom.
46 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.3.
2 Minerals The table below details our mineral and derivative product production for all Businesses except Petroleum for the three years ended 30 June 2013, 2012 and 2011.
Production shows our share unless otherwise stated.
For discussion of minerals pricing during the past three years, refer to section 3.4.
BHP Billiton Group share of production BHP Billiton Year ended 30 June Group interest % 2013 2012 2011 Copper Business Copper Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes Escondida, Chile 57.5 478.1 333.8 390.5 Antamina, Peru 33.8 139.7 127.0 97.8 1 Pinto Valley, United States 100 16.6 Total copper concentrate 634.4 460.8 488.3 Copper cathode 000 tonnes Escondida, Chile 57.5 171.3 172.0 179.1 2 Pampa Norte, Chile 100 232.6 263.7 272.2 1 Pinto Valley, United States 100 4.9 5.4 5.7 Olympic Dam, Australia 100 166.2 192.6 194.1 Total copper cathode 575.0 633.7 651.1 Total copper concentrate and cathode 1,209.4 1,094.5 1,139.4 Lead Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes Cannington, Australia 100 213.4 239.1 243.4 Antamina, Peru 33.8 1.0 0.8 1.2 Total lead 214.4 239.9 244.6 Zinc Payable metal in concentrate 000 tonnes Cannington, Australia 100 56.3 54.7 60.7 Antamina, Peru 33.8 71.9 57.5 91.5 Total zinc 128.2 112.2 152.2 Gold Payable metal in concentrate 000 ounces Escondida, Chile 57.5 41.1 50.9 84.7 Olympic Dam, Australia refined gold 100 113.3 117.8 111.4 Total gold 154.4 168.7 196.1 Silver Payable metal in concentrate 000 ounces Escondida, Chile 57.5 1,702 1,921 2,849 Antamina, Peru 33.8 3,952 4,272 3,600 Cannington, Australia 100 31,062 34,208 35,225 Olympic Dam, Australia refined silver 100 880 907 982 Pinto Valley, United States 100 59 Total silver 37,655 41,308 42,656 Uranium oxide Payable metal in concentrate tonnes Olympic Dam, Australia 100 4,102 3,885 4,045 Total uranium oxide 4,102 3,885 4,045 Molybdenum Payable metal in concentrate tonnes Antamina, Peru 33.8 1,561 2,346 1,445 Total molybdenum 1,561 2,346 1,445 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 47 2 Information on the Company continued 2.3.
2 Minerals continued BHP Billiton Group share of production BHP Billiton Year ended 30 June Group interest % 2013 2012 2011 Iron Ore Business 3 WAIO Production 000 tonnes 4 Newman, Australia 85 52,997 51,326 45,245 Mt Goldsworthy Joint Venture Yarrie, Australia 85 1,106 768 1,198 Mt Goldsworthy Joint Venture Area C, Australia 85 44,717 42,425 39,794 Yandi Joint Venture, Australia 85 60,054 53,536 36,460 Total WAIO 158,874 148,055 122,697 Samarco, Brazil 50 10,982 11,423 11,709 Total iron ore 169,856 159,478 134,406 Coal Business Metallurgical coal 5 Production 000 tonnes Blackwater, Australia 50 5,432 4,435 4,589 6 Goonyella Riverside, Australia 50 6,221 5,003 5,359 Peak Downs, Australia 50 4,545 3,534 3,402 Saraji, Australia 50 3,449 3,053 2,779 7 Norwich Park, Australia 50 1,175 1,055 8 Gregory joint venture, Australia 50 2,523 1,411 2,717 9 Daunia, Australia 50 475 Total BMA 22,645 18,611 19,901 South Walker Creek, Australia 80 4,351 4,081 3,134 Poitrel, Australia 80 2,712 2,612 2,759 10 Total BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal 7,063 6,693 5,893 Total Queensland Coal 29,708 25,304 25,794 Illawarra Coal, Australia 100 7,942 7,926 6,884 Total metallurgical coal 37,650 33,230 32,678 Energy coal Production 000 tonnes Navajo, United States 100 6,544 7,004 7,472 San Juan, United States 100 6,694 2,408 4,140 Total New Mexico Coal 100 13,238 9,412 11,612 Middelburg Wolvekrans, South Africa 90 14,669 14,848 14,328 Khutala, South Africa 90 9,554 10,863 12,928 Klipspruit, South Africa 90 7,404 7,568 7,072 11 Total Energy Coal South Africa 100 31,627 33,279 34,328 Mt Arthur Coal, Australia 100 18,010 16,757 13,671 Cerrejn, Colombia 33.3 10,017 11,663 9,889 Total energy coal 72,892 71,111 69,500 48 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.3.
2 Minerals continued BHP Billiton Group share of production BHP Billiton Year ended 30 June Group interest % 2013 2012 2011 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business Alumina Saleable production 000 tonnes Worsley, Australia 86 3,675 2,917 2,902 Alumar, Brazil 36 1,205 1,235 1,108 Total alumina 4,880 4,152 4,010 Aluminium Production 000 tonnes Hillside, South Africa 100 665 621 711 Bayside, South Africa 100 96 98 97 Alumar, Brazil 40 154 170 174 Mozal, Mozambique 47 264 264 264 Total aluminium 1,179 1,153 1,246 Manganese ores Saleable production 000 tonnes Hotazel Manganese Mines, South Africa 44.4 3,490 3,625 3,007 GEMCO, Australia 60 5,027 4,306 4,086 12 Total manganese ores 8,517 7,931 7,093 Manganese alloys Saleable production 000 tonnes 13 Metalloys, South Africa 60 374 404 486 TEMCO, Australia 60 234 198 267 12 Total manganese alloys 608 602 753 Nickel Saleable production 000 tonnes Cerro Matoso, Colombia 99.9 50.8 48.9 40.0 Nickel West, Australia 100 103.3 109.0 112.7 Total nickel 154.1 157.9 152.7 Divested businesses Diamonds Production 000 carats TM 14 EKATI, Canada 80 972 1,784 2,506 Total diamonds 972 1,784 2,506 15 Titanium minerals Production 000 tonnes Titanium slag Richards Bay Minerals, South Africa 37.76 53 384 366 Rutile Richards Bay Minerals, South Africa 37.76 6 38 32 Zircon Richards Bay Minerals, South Africa 37.76 16 100 83 Total titanium minerals 75 522 481 1 Sulphide mining and milling operations at Pinto Valley recommenced in FY2013.
BHP Billiton interest in saleable production The operations were placed on care and maintenance in January 2009, but is 80 per cent FY2012: 80 per cent: FY2011: 80 per cent.
continued to produce copper cathode through sulphide leaching.
BHP Billiton interest in saleable production 2 Includes Cerro Colorado and Spence.
reduced to 90 per cent during the second half of FY2013.
3 Iron ore production is reported on a wet tonnes basis.
BHP Billiton interest in saleable production 4 Newman includes Mt Newman Joint Venture and Jimblebar.
is 60 per cent, except Hotazel Manganese Mines, which is 44.4 per cent 5 Metallurgical coal production is reported on the basis of saleable product.
Production figures include some energy coal.
6 Goonyella Riverside includes the Broadmeadow underground mine.
14 Our 80 per cent operated interest in EKATI was sold on 10 April 2013.
7 Norwich Park ceased production on 11 May 2012.
15 Our 37.76 per cent non-operated interest in Richards Bay Minerals was sold 8 Gregory open-cut mine ceased production on 10 October 2012. on 7 September 2012.
For FY2011, data was sourced from the TZ Minerals 9 Daunia project achieved first production in the March 2013 quarter.
International Pty Ltd Mineral Sands Annual Review 2012, and amounts represent production for the preceding year ended 31 December 2011.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 49 2 Information on the Company continued Our expenditure on minerals exploration over the last three years was: 2.4 Marketing BHP Billitons Marketing network manages the Groups revenue 2013 2012 2011 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M line and is responsible for: selling our products and managing the Marketing supply chain: Greenfield exploration 179 324 207 purchasing of all major raw materials: Brownfield exploration 472 773 476 managing credit and price risk associated with the revenue line: Total minerals exploration 651 1,097 683 achieving market clearing prices for the Groups products: defining our view of long-term market fundamentals.
2.6 Group Resource and Business Optimisation Our responsibilities require an active presence in the various commodities markets and the global freight market, through which Group Resource and Business Optimisation RBO provides we oversee the management of the supply chain for our various governance and functional leadership for resource planning and products, extending from our assets to markets and, for raw development and Ore Reserve reporting.
RBO is focused on ensuring materials, from suppliers to our assets.
We also work to manage optimal value recovery from our resources.
The team includes credit and price risk by assessing customers for creditworthiness functional experts in mineral resource evaluation, exploration, and ensuring that the Groups revenue is determined predominantly planning, research and development, work management, production on an index or floating price basis.
processes, mine engineering and mineral process engineering.
Our market insight is strengthened by the multi-commodity nature RBO engages directly with assets to deliver guidance and assess of the Group, our proximity to our customers and the easy flow of compliance in resource development and Ore Reserve reporting.
information in our centralised marketing structure.
We study the It provides the Group Management Committee with performance fundamentals of demand and the supply cycles and integrate these reports and portfolio analysis.
RBO also provides functional to form a long-term view of the market, through interaction with expertise to audits and to investment review programs conducted customers, forums and analysts.
This allows us to better assess by other Group Functions.
and respond to shifts in long-term pricing and demand and RBOs accountabilities include governance for all resource and address trends across commodity markets.
reserve estimation and Ore Reserve reporting.
The global hub for our marketing activities for all commodities, except oil and gas, is centralised in Singapore.
The global hub for our marketing activities for oil and gas is centralised in 2.7 Government regulations Houston, United States.
Government regulations touch all aspects of our operations.
During FY2013, the Marketing hub office in The Hague, Netherlands, However, the geographical diversity of our operations reduces was closed and most activities moved to Singapore, reflecting the the risk that any one set of government regulations would have continued predominance of sales in Asia.
a material effect on our business, taken as a whole.
The two marketing hub offices incorporate all the functions The ability to extract minerals, oil and natural gas is fundamental required to manage product marketing and distribution from our to BHP Billiton.
In most jurisdictions, the rights to undeveloped assets to final customers.
In addition, we have marketers located mineral or petroleum deposits are owned by the state.
In those in regional offices in 14 cities around the world.
jurisdictions, we rely upon the rights granted to us by the government that owns the mineral, oil or natural gas.
These rights Within the Singapore Marketing hub, we have a centralised ocean usually take the form of a lease or licence, which gives us the right freight business that manages our in-house freight requirements.
to access the land and extract the product.
The terms of the lease The primary purpose of the freight business is to create a competitive or licence, including the time period for which it is effective, are advantage for our shipments through the procurement and operation specific to the laws of the relevant government.
Generally, we own of quality, cost-effective shipping.
the product we extract and royalties or similar taxes are payable to the government.
2.5 Minerals exploration In certain jurisdictions in which we operate, such as Trinidad Our minerals exploration program is integral to our growth strategy and Tobago, a production sharing contract PSC governs the and is focused on discovering and acquiring operating interests relationship between the government and companies concerning in mineral deposits with the potential to support large, long-life, how much of the oil and gas extracted from the country each will low-cost, expandable upstream assets, diversified by commodity, receive.
In production sharing contracts the government awards geography and market.
rights for the execution of exploration, development and production activities to the company.
The company bears the financial risk Our greenfield new sites activities allow us to explore some of the initiative, and explores, develops and ultimately produces of the most geologically prospective terrains in a number of the field as required.
When successful, the company is permitted countries and operating environments.
Greenfield minerals to use the money from a certain set percentage of produced oil and exploration is focused on advancing targets within Chile and Peru, gas to recover capital and operational expenditures, known as cost and is organised through our Copper Business.
The remaining production is known as profit oil and is split include opportunity identification, application for and acquisition between the government and the company at a rate determined of mineral title, early reconnaissance operations and multi-million by the government and set out in the PSC.
Related to the ability to extract is the ability to process the minerals, In addition to our activities focused on finding new world-class oil or natural gas.
Again, we rely upon the relevant government deposits, several of our Businesses undertake brownfield to grant the rights necessary to transport and treat the extracted developments on existing sites exploration, principally material in order to ready it for sale.
aimed at delineating and categorising mineral deposits near existing operations, and advancing projects through Underlying our business of extracting and processing natural the development pipeline.
resources is the ability to explore for those natural resources.
Typically, the rights to explore for minerals, oil and natural gas are granted to us by the government that owns those natural resources that we wish to explore.
Usually, the right to explore carries with it the obligation to spend a defined amount of money on the exploration or to undertake particular exploration activities.
50 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report ii individuals indicted by the International Criminal Tribunal 2.7 Government regulations continued for the former Yugoslavia: Although onshore oil and gas rights in the United States can be iii entities and individuals linked with the Taliban, Al-Qaeda derived from government state and federal mineral rights, they are and other terrorist organisations.
primarily derived from private ownership of the rights, which is the There are no restrictions under BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association case for our onshore oil and gas rights.
Oil and gas rights primarily or subject to the effect of any sanctions under English law that take the form of a lease, but also can be owned onshore outright limit the right of non-resident or foreign owners to hold or vote in fee.
If the rights granted are by lease, we are afforded the rights BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
to access, explore, extract, produce and market the oil and gas for a period of years and then generally so long thereafter as there is There are certain restrictions on shareholding levels under oil or gas production or operations on the leased lands.
BHP Billiton Plcs Articles of Association described under the heading BHP Billiton Limited below.
Governments also impose obligations on us in respect of environmental protection, land rehabilitation, occupational health BHP Billiton Limited and safety, and native land title with which we must comply in order From time to time, the United Nations Security Council and the to continue to enjoy the right to conduct our operations within that Australian Government impose international sanctions on certain jurisdiction.
These obligations often require us to make substantial countries and organisations.
The countries and organisations expenditures to minimise or remediate the environmental impact that are currently subject to United Nations sanctions are certain of our operations, to ensure the safety of our employees and individuals or entities linked with the Taliban, Al-Qaeda and contractors and the like.
Environmental protection, land rehabilitation associated individuals and entities, other designated individuals and occupational health and safety onshore in the United States and entities associated with terrorism, certain entities and are principally regulated by the government and to a lesser degree, individuals associated with the Democratic Republic of Congo, if applicable, by the lease contract with the landowner.
For further Cote dIvoire, the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea North information on these types of obligations, refer to section 2.8 Korea, Eritrea, Guinea-Bissau, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, of this Annual Report.
The countries currently subject to the Australian Of particular note are the following regulatory regimes: Governments autonomous sanctions are Myanmar, the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea North Korea, Fiji, the former Federal 2.7.
1 Uranium production in Australia Republic of Yugoslavia, Iran, Libya, Syria and Zimbabwe.
The controls To mine, process, transport and sell uranium from within Australia, impose certain approval and reporting requirements on transactions we are required to hold possession and export permissions, which involving such countries, entities and individuals and or assets are also subject to regulation by the Australian Government or controlled or owned by them.
Transfers into or out of Australia bodies that report to the Australian Government.
of amounts greater than A$10,000 in any currency are also subject to reporting requirements.
In addition, under the Australian To possess nuclear material, such as uranium, in Australia, a Permit Banking Foreign Exchange Regulations 1959, the Reserve Bank to Possess Nuclear Materials Possession Permit must be held of Australia may impose restrictions on certain financial transactions pursuant to the Australian Nuclear Non-Proliferation Safeguards and require the consent of the Reserve Bank of Australia for the Act 1987 Non-Proliferation Act.
A Possession Permit is issued by movement of funds into and out of Australia.
No such restrictions the Australian Safeguards and Non-Proliferation Office, an office are currently in place.
established under the Non-Proliferation Act, which administers Australias domestic nuclear safeguards requirements and reports Remittances of any dividends, interest or other payments by to the Australian Government.
BHP Billiton Limited to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Limiteds securities are not restricted by exchange controls or other limitations, To export uranium from Australia, a Permit to Export Natural save that in certain circumstances, BHP Billiton may be required Uranium Export Permit must be held pursuant to the Australian to withhold Australian taxes.
The Export Permit is issued by the Minister for Resources and Energy.
There are no limitations, either under the laws of Australia or under the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited, on the right of non-residents A special transport permit is required under the Non-Proliferation to hold or vote BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares other than as Act by a party that transports nuclear material from one specified set out below.
location to another specified location.
As we engage service providers to transport uranium, those service providers are required to hold The Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 a special transport permit.
the FATA restricts certain acquisitions of interests in shares in BHP Billiton.
Generally, under the FATA, the prior approval 2.7.
2 Exchange controls and shareholding limits of the Australian Treasurer must be obtained for proposals BHP Billiton Plc by a foreign person either alone or together with associates There are no laws or regulations currently in force in the United to acquire control of 15 per cent or more of the voting power Kingdom that restrict the export or import of capital or the or issued shares in BHP Billiton Limited.
remittance of dividends to non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs The FATA also empowers the Treasurer to make certain orders shares, although the Group does operate in some other jurisdictions prohibiting acquisitions by foreign persons in BHP Billiton Limited where remittances of funds could be affected as they are subject and requiring divestiture if the acquisition has occurred where to exchange control approvals.
There are certain sanctions adopted he considers the acquisition to be contrary to the national interest by the UK Government which implement resolutions of the Security and the 15 per cent threshold referred to above would be exceeded Council of the United Nations and sanctions imposed by the European as a result.
Such orders may also be made in respect of acquisitions Union EU against certain countries, entities and individuals and by foreign persons where two or more foreign persons and their may restrict the export or import of capital or the remittance of associates in aggregate already control 40 per cent or more dividends to certain non-resident holders of BHP Billiton Plcs shares.
of the issued shares or voting power in BHP Billiton Limited.
Any enforcement of financial sanctions by the UK Government would be initiated by HM Treasury.
Such sanctions may be in force There are certain other statutory restrictions, and restrictions under from time to time and include those against: BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Articles i certain entities and or individuals associated with Afghanistan, of Association, that apply generally to acquisitions of shares in Belarus, Cote dIvoire, the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea BHP Billiton i. e. the restrictions are not targeted at foreign persons North Korea, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Egypt, only.
These include restrictions on a person and associates Eritrea, the Republic of Guinea, the Republic of Guinea-Bissau, breaching a voting power threshold of: Iran, Lebanon, Liberia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, Zimbabwe 20 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Limited on a stand-alone and the previous regimes of Iraq, Libya and Yugoslavia: basis, i. e. calculated as if there were no Special Voting Share and only counting BHP Billiton Limiteds ordinary shares.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 51 2 Information on the Company continued 2.7.
2 Exchange controls and shareholding limits continued 2.8.
2 Identifying and managing our material risks 30 per cent of BHP Billiton Plc.
This is the threshold for a We identify risks we consider material to our organisation and mandatory offer under Rule 9 of the UK takeover code and this take into consideration the potential health, safety, environmental, threshold applies to all voting rights of BHP Billiton Plc therefore social, reputational, legal and financial impacts.
The severity of any including voting rights attached to the BHP Billiton Plc Special particular risk is assessed according to the degree of harm, injury Voting Share.
or loss from the most severe impact associated with a specific risk.
The objectives of the risk management process are to understand 30 per cent in relation to BHP Billiton Plc on a stand-alone basis, the nature and tolerance of the material risks for the Group and to i. e. calculated as if there were no Special Voting Share and only ensure they are managed through the verification and effectiveness counting BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares.
Information relating to the material risks 20 per cent in relation to the BHP Billiton Group, calculated for the Group, including sustainability risks, is available in section having regard to all the voting power on a joint electorate basis, 1.7 in this Annual Report.
Our risk management processes are i. e. calculated on the aggregate of BHP Billiton Limiteds and consistent with the hierarchy of controls described in Article 6 BHP Billiton Plcs ordinary shares.
of International Labour Organization Safety and Health in Mines Under BHP Billiton Limiteds Constitution and BHP Billiton Plcs Convention, 1995 No.
Articles of Association, sanctions for breach of any of these 2.8.
3 Identifying our sustainability issues thresholds, other than by means of certain permitted acquisitions, include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and compulsory We identified the sustainability issues included in this Annual Report divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder and its associates and the Sustainability Report 2013 through a three-step materiality exceed the relevant threshold.
Step one of the process identified issues by reviewing our internal risk registers, enquiries from our shareholders and investors and daily print media coverage.
Step two involved rating the 2.8 Sustainability significance of these issues from our stakeholders perspective and the potential impact on our organisation as low, medium or high.
Our BHP Billiton Charter value of Sustainability reflects our priority The third step was to review the issues and seek feedback from of putting health and safety first, being environmentally responsible key stakeholders.
A number of material issues are discussed in the and supporting our communities.
following sections: Our ability to operate globally is dependent upon gaining access Operating with integrity and conducting business transparently.
to natural resources and maintaining our licence to operate.
Keeping our people and operations safe.
Sustainable development is core to our strategy: we integrate Focusing on the health and wellbeing of our people.
health, safety, environmental, social and economic factors into our key decision-making.
The sustainability dimensions that we Developing our people.
report on include the health and safety of our people: governance Climate change and energy.
and risk management processes: how we contribute to improved Biodiversity and land management.
standards of living and self-sustaining communities: our impact Water management.
on the environment and approach to resource conservation and Supporting and engaging with our communities.
biodiversity: and how we ensure the broader economic contributions Respecting human rights.
of our operations benefit the regions in which we operate.
Making a positive contribution to society.
The information contained in this section covers assets that Informing our thinking through the Forum have been wholly owned and operated by BHP Billiton or that on Corporate Responsibility have been operated by BHP Billiton in a joint venture operation controlled assets for FY2013.
Additional information relating Established in 1999, the Forum on Corporate Responsibility the to our sustainability performance for FY2013 is available Forum is an advisory body comprising nine highly respected civil in our Sustainability Report 2013 and is available online society leaders who engage with our executive team on the Groups at w w w. bhpbilliton.
The Forum is a key component of our stakeholder engagement program, contributing significant 2.8.
1 Governance and sustainability insight into societys current and future priorities and providing The Sustainability Committee of the Board assists the Board in an opportunity to understand and debate issues from oversight of health, safety, environment and community HSEC multiple viewpoints.
This includes overseeing areas relating to HSEC risk, BHP Billiton representatives benefit from engaging directly with a compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, group of civil society leaders who represent different perspectives and overall HSEC performance of the Group.
on current and emerging sustainability issues.
The Forum helps More specifically, management is accountable for the design and to ensure societal implications are understood and considered implementation of  processes and performance in important Company decisions.
necessary to comply with our suite of HSEC Group Level Documents Our Chief Executive Officer chairs the meetings, which were held GLDs.
GLDs describe the mandatory minimum performance twice during FY2013.
Sustainability topics discussed in the past requirements and accountabilities for definitive business obligations, financial year included emerging global social and environmental processes, functions and activities across BHP Billiton.
They are the trends: climate change scenarios and adaptation: issues facing foundation for developing and implementing management systems Indigenous peoples, including free, prior and informed consent: at our operations.
Internal audits are required to be conducted sustainability reporting: and transparency.
annually to test compliance with the requirements of the HSEC GLDs.
Audit results are used by management to create action plans 2.8.
4 Operating with integrity and conducting where the Businesses have not yet achieved full compliance with the business transparently GLD requirements.
Key findings are reported to senior management: Wherever we operate in the world, we strive to work with integrity and summary reports are considered by the Sustainability Committee doing what is right and doing what we say we will do.
We care of the Board and, where appropriate, by the Risk and Audit as much about how results are achieved as we do about the results Committee of the Board.
We believe that to maintain our position as one of the worlds leading companies, we must commit to high ethical business practices and governance standards in all our dealings.
We strive to foster a culture that values and rewards exemplary ethical standards, personal and corporate integrity and respect for others.
52 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.8.
4 Operating with integrity and conducting Transparently reporting our taxes business transparently continued Through our membership of the ICMM, we support the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI.
The EITI is a global initiative Regardless of the country or culture within which our people to improve governance in resource-rich countries through the work, our Anti-corruption GLD and the BHP Billiton Code of verification and full publication of company payments and government Business Conduct prohibit bribery and corruption in all our revenues from oil, gas and mining.
We are committed to supporting business dealings.
Particulars in relation to the Code of Business and cooperating in the implementation of country-level EITI Work Conduct and anti-corruption are referred to in section 5.16 Plans as our host countries progress the initiative.
Specific discussion on legal proceedings is available in section 8 in this Annual Report.
In line with our support for the EITI, we have reported in the Sustainability Report 2013 payments of taxes and royalties derived Product Stewardship from resource developments on a country-by-country basis.
As our primary activities are in the extraction and, in some cases, We have presented the data as the taxes and royalties that we processing stages of a products life cycle, the majority of the life pay as BHP Billiton such as corporate income taxes and royalties cycles of our products occur after the products have left our control.
and also those that we collect on behalf of employees.
Through our membership of the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM, we commit to implementing the ICMM Sustainable 2.8.
5 Keeping our people and operations safe Development Framework, which requires that we facilitate and The safety and health of our people is core to every aspect encourage responsible design, use, re-use, recycling and disposal of our business.
Having our people return home safe and well of our products along the supply chain.
We recognise there is strong at the end of every working day, and enabling them to end their business merit in implementing product stewardship programs with working life fit and healthy are central to everything we do.
other participants involved in the life cycles of our products.
This is reflected in the processes and controls we have in place In FY2013, we engaged in a number of product stewardship initiatives, throughout our organisation.
related to the International Manganese Institute, Steel Stewardship Our safety performance Forum, International Aluminium Institute, and Australian Petroleum We remain vigilant in our focus on material safety risks, ensuring Production and Exploration Association.
For other commodities, we have the appropriate controls in place to address these risks including copper and nickel, we participate in the stewardship and that our people are appropriately trained.
During FY2013, programs also incorporated within their industry associations.
we increased our focus on assessing the effectiveness of controls For uranium, we practice and follow the product stewardship for material risks, which required us to assess whether the critical principles established by the World Nuclear Association, of which controls were being deployed as designed and to the standard we are a member.
These principles include supporting the safe required.
To monitor the effectiveness of these critical controls, and peaceful use of nuclear technology and promoting sustainable they are established and then tracked through business systems, development for the whole industry.
Product stewardship activities such as 1SAP and internal audit processes.
The ability to monitor involving BHP Billiton range from participation in national and the effectiveness of critical controls prior to a potential event international programs to the transparency of allowing customers occurring provides the organisation with a leading indicator for to physically audit our HSEC activities.
the control of these risks.
A number of our coal operations have also participated in initiatives The FY2013 total recordable injury frequency TRIF performance of relevant to product stewardship, including consideration of 4.6 per million hours worked improved by two per cent compared with international certifications, as well as internal and external 4.7 in FY2012.
While we continue to see year-on-year improvement, audits, with a view to providing transparency of the HSEC we recognise that TRIF is principally an indicator in highlighting activities undertaken by our operations.
broad personal injury trends, and we are reminded by the three work-related fatalities suffered in FY2013 that lower injury rates Many of our products are required to have a specific safety alone will not prevent fatalities.
It also reinforces our efforts to data sheet SDS.
These SDSs outline the relevant health, safety improve the identification and management of material HSEC risks.
and environmental aspects of our products and are available to customers and the transporters of our products.
Total recordable injury frequency Working with our contractors and suppliers Year ended 30 June 2013 2012 2011 Our globally managed contractors and suppliers have requirements Total recordable injury frequency TRIF 4.6 4.7 5.0 in their contracts consistent with Our Charter, Code of Business Conduct, the Anti-corruption GLD and HSEC GLDs.
Additionally, Managing our aviation risks in our Supply Source to Contract GLD, we specify that our Aviation is a significant material safety risk, as we move over suppliers align with our zero tolerance of a number of human 450,000 people each year by chartered aircraft.
We use two key rights infringements, including child labour, inhumane treatment assurance processes for the selection and use of contracted aircraft of employees and forced or compulsory labour.
Contracted suppliers operators: the Basic Aviation Risk Standard BARS audit program are categorised depending on their HSEC and business conduct risk managed by the Flight Safety Foundation FSF to verify design and our level of commercial dependency.
A procedure to engage effectiveness and our own operational reviews to validate operating with each supplier is developed appropriate to the level of risk.
effectiveness, which are undertaken by our aviation specialists.
Closure Planning The continued use of this approach, combined with the review of Closure planning is a key consideration in the planning and BHP Billiton and industry incidents, provides the basis for continued development of our projects and operations.
Operations are required improvement of the control and management of our aviation risks.
to maintain Closure Plans, which describe the proposed methods After experiencing three pressurisation incidents since May 2011, to rehabilitate and remediate following resource development and we worked with the FSF and industry colleagues through the also address closure obligations.
The Closure Plans provide the basis BARS program to increase industry standards.
As an added control, for estimating the closure costs and the associated accounting pressurised aircraft are now required to adopt aural cabin pressure for closure and rehabilitation provisions.
Detailed closure planning warnings when available for the aircraft type to help eliminate requirements, including the issues to be addressed, accuracy of cost incidents related to pressurisation failure.
estimates and risks to be assessed are described in our Corporation Alignment Planning GLD.
Information on our closure and rehabilitation provisions can be found in note 18, Provisions, to the financial statements in this Annual Report.
In addition to our projects and operating assets, we are also responsible for a number of legacy operations that are in various stages of decommissioning, rehabilitation or post-closure care and maintenance.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 53 2 Information on the Company continued 2.8.
5 Keeping our people and operations safe continued in exposures was adversely impacted by an increase in dust exposures at our aluminium operations in South Africa primarily Responsibly undertaking deepwater drilling due to major maintenance work following an unplanned potline Deepwater oil and gas exploration is an important aspect of outage dating from the March 2012 quarter.
Our skilled drilling professionals use comprehensive and proven processes and systems to conduct 2.8.
7 Developing our people deepwater drilling operations in a safe manner that complies with Employing and developing talented and motivated people who share the regulations where we operate and our own strict requirements.
Our Charter values is critical to our long-term success.
Each individual We maintain common worldwide standards, cultivate a culture brings unique skills, experience and perspectives: and we recognise of continuous improvement and focus on reducing risk in all that we are strengthened by diversity.
We are committed to providing of our offshore oil and gas drilling operations.
a work environment in which everyone is treated fairly and with respect and has the opportunity to maximise their potential.
6 Focusing on the health and wellbeing of our people The acute and immediate nature of serious accidents can make Recruitment is managed on a local basis by each area of our them an obvious health and safety focus.
However, the life-altering organisation, and employment is offered on merit.
Every person disabilities that can result from chronic exposure to health risks are applying for a job is evaluated according to their job-related skills, equally serious.
Health risks faced by our people include fatigue and qualifications, abilities, aptitudes and alignment with Our Charter occupational exposure to noise, silica, manganese, diesel exhaust values.
In some jurisdictions, targeted affirmative action through particulate, fluorides, coal tar pitch, nickel and sulphuric acid mist.
programs, such as Indigenous employment and training and Black It is important that our people are fit for work: and we require Economic Empowerment, may be required to address historical our operations to have systems in place to minimise the risk of imbalances and past discrimination.
We are continuously working Additional information relating to diversity and employee policies to reduce the potential for chronic exposure to health risks that and involvement at BHP Billiton is available in sections 5.17 can lead to life-altering disabilities.
and 7.8 in this Annual Report.
Since FY2011, we have seen an increase in the reporting of 2.8.
8 Climate change and energy musculoskeletal illnesses and a decrease in noise induced hearing As a global organisation operating in an energy-intensive industry, loss NIHL case reporting.
This change in reported cases has we are actively managing risks associated with climate change, largely been driven by improved application of the United States which are discussed in section 1.7 of this Annual Report.
Government Occupational Safety and Health Administration reporting guidelines.
Managing the potential impacts of climate change 1 Occupational illness incidence per 10,000 employees Potential physical impacts of climate change on our operations may include changes in precipitation patterns, increased storm Year ended 30 June 2013 2012 2011 intensities and higher average temperatures, which may adversely affect the productivity and financial performance of our operations.
Noise induced hearing loss NIHL 10.2 19.4 20.7 Regulations to control greenhouse gas GHG emissions can impact Musculoskeletal 24.8 20.7 17.4 operational costs, particularly for more GHG-intensive assets, as Other illnesses 12.9 7.0 5.4 well as impacting demand for fossil fuel products such as coal and Total 47.9 47.1 43.5 gas.
In the medium and long term, we are likely to see changes in the costs associated with our GHG-intensive assets as a result 1 Fr om FY2013 onwards, incidence of occupational illness is calculated on the of regulatory requirements in a number of the countries where we average number of employees.
This has been applied retrospectively to prior reporting years.
operate, which may also have implications for our suppliers and customers.
Inconsistency of regulations, particularly between Managing our occupational exposures developed and developing countries, could affect the investment Our priority is to control occupational exposures at their source, attractiveness of assets in different jurisdictions.
and we are focused on improving our occupational exposure controls Engaging in policy development to offer greater protection and further improve our performance.
The issues associated with climate change continue to be a In those situations where we cannot control the source, a range challenge for governments, communities and industries around of measures are employed, including the provision of personal the world: and it seems a global solution to climate change is some protective equipment PPE to safeguard our people.
Until then, nations are likely to continue to pursue their required to establish, understand and maintain an exposure risk domestic GHG emissions reduction efforts to establish low-carbon profile to harmful agents for employees and contractors and to economies, balancing their needs to ensure a reliable energy supply identify the need for exposure controls and medical surveillance and sustainable economic growth.
We establish our own occupational exposure limits OELs when we believe local regulatory limits do not provide adequate We engage with policy makers on climate change policies in the protection for workers health.
If a potential exposure to harmful key regions where we operate, including Australia, South Africa agents exceeds 50 per cent of the OEL, medical surveillance is and South America.
In FY2013, we engaged with Australian policy required to be implemented to identify potential illness or health makers on the implementation of the Australian Governments effects at an early stage and to provide feedback as to whether the carbon price legislation.
exposure controls we have in place are functioning as designed.
Governments globally are considering a variety of legislative and In FY2013, we set a target to reduce potential occupational regulatory options to mitigate GHG emissions.
In our view, assessing exposure to carcinogens and airborne contaminants by 10 per cent these options requires an understanding of their likely effectiveness, by FY2017.
This reduction is for exposures that exceed our baseline scale and cost, as well as their implications for economic growth occupational exposure limits if not for the use of PPE.
In FY2013, we and quality of life.
Our position is that any policy response should had a 5.7 per cent decrease in the number of potential exposures to be broad-based and use a portfolio of complementary measures carcinogens and airborne contaminants data for the divested EKATI to deliver abatement.
We believe the diversity of our portfolio, Diamond Mine Asset was not included.
This decrease was driven combined with actions focused on emissions abatement, will by the successful implementation of exposure reduction initiatives position us well to manage future policy developments.
We have at two of our coal operations.
It was also influenced by a reduction developed six principles to outline what we think any climate in head count at our copper operations and by small reductions change policy should encompass to best tackle carbon emissions in exposures at our nickel operations in Australia.
Exposures could reduction: clear price signal: revenue neutral: trade friendly: therefore rise again if our head count increases or if the small broad-based: predictable and gradual: simple and effective.
changes in nickel exposure are not sustainable.
The overall decrease 54 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.8.
8 Climate change and energy continued Biodiversity, land and our organisation We continue to hold the view that a price on carbon is just one We acknowledge the importance of preserving biodiversity and the challenge this presents to all land users.
Host governments and of the potential policy measures that governments can adopt to address climate change.
Independently, we maintain a Carbon communities are seeking a greater demonstration of effective land stewardship as a critical component in their decision to grant land Pricing Protocol, an internal mechanism for pricing carbon and determining carbon price impacts on our greenfield and brownfield access.
Competition for land is growing, whether it is from mining, agriculture, forestry, water supply or biodiversity conservation.
developments and on mergers and acquisitions.
Our Carbon Pricing Protocol is updated annually to reflect internal and external carbon Consequently, this requires broader consideration of how we manage land use and biodiversity at our operations and how this price modelling and the proposed treatment of carbon permits in countries where we operate.
is balanced with other societal needs.
Obtaining community support is most challenging when there is strong competition for the use Reducing greenhouse gas emissions of the land, such as the competition between resource development We strive to continually improve energy and GHG management.
At our operations where emissions exceed or are anticipated to We draw on the resources of the World Database on Protected Areas exceed 50,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent COe per 2 to identify whether our operations are in or adjacent to protected annum, we require an Energy and GHG Management Plan to be areas.
We also have explicit requirements in our Environment GLD implemented and maintained.
In FY2013, over 90 per cent of our relating to areas of high environmental sensitivity and also in relation operations had emissions above this limit and they were required to threatened species.
This GLD mandates the assessment, planning to identify, evaluate and implement energy efficiency and and management of the potential land and biodiversity impacts of GHG-reduction projects.
our operations throughout their life cycle.
Our operations are We are committed to delivering emissions abatement opportunities required to have Land and Biodiversity Management Plans that and transparent public reporting of our emissions.
In FY2013, we set incorporate baseline and impact assessments, controls designed to an ambitious target to maintain our FY2017 GHG emissions below mitigate impacts on biodiversity, land use and water resources, and FY2006 baseline levels, while we continue to grow our business.
monitoring programs to verify effectiveness of controls.
Commonly The FY2006 baseline is adjusted for material acquisitions and described as a mitigation hierarchy, we aim to avoid land divestments based on asset GHG emissions at the time of transaction.
disturbance and, where this is not possible, to minimise our impacts, In order to achieve our target, we intend to focus on the continued including rehabilitating land both during operations and closure.
implementation of identified abatement opportunities by our Where unacceptable impacts remain, we look to undertake Businesses.
Without this focus, we forecast that our absolute compensatory actions, such as biodiversity offsets.
emissions would exceed the FY2006 baseline as a result of growth Managing land access and rehabilitation across our organisation.
Our approach to land access is undertaken on a case-by-case basis In FY2013, our Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions have increased by and takes into account potential environmental, societal, economic 6.45 million tonnes Mt to 46.7 Mt, predominantly due to increases or cultural impacts.
We consider what land we need and seek to across our Aluminium and Onshore US operations.
Maintenance identify the uses of the land and the stakeholders who may be downtime due to torrential rain caused supply interruptions of affected by our activities.
We then look at our possible short-term hydropower to our Mozal aluminium smelter.
This resulted in a and long-term impacts on that land, including the effects that our GHG emissions increase of 3.6 Mt as the operation switched to use may have on biodiversity, water resources, air and communities.
Continued development of the Onshore US unconventional oil and gas operations increased emissions by 1.3 Mt.
The rehabilitation of land no longer required for our activities continues to be a central part of our approach to managing our We remain in line with our FY2017 target, with emissions lower than our FY2006 baseline.
Of the assets that committed to implementing effects on land.
We are required to rehabilitate disturbed areas consistent with the pre-disturbance land use or alternative land abatement projects in FY2013, 64 per cent did not achieve this due to resource and other constraints.
This was partially offset by strong uses developed in consultation with stakeholders.
performance at three of our Copper operations, which exceeded Enhancing biodiversity and contributing to conservation their GHG abatement targets this year.
In FY2013, we introduced new biodiversity and conservation Supplying, accessing and efficiently using energy targets.
The first target focuses on a core business requirement Accessing a secure supply of energy is necessary for our continued to develop Land and Biodiversity Management Plans that include controls to prevent, minimise, rehabilitate and offset impacts to growth.
Many factors influence our ability to access energy, including increased global demand, issues related to local generation, biodiversity and ecosystem services, which has been achieved by all our operations.
We also introduced a new conservation target transmission of power, and political and regulatory uncertainties.
We are addressing these risks and securing energy supply through to finance the conservation and continuing management of areas of high biodiversity and ecosystem value that are of national and improving the energy efficiency of our operations, negotiating long-term contracts with energy providers and using diverse international conservation significance.
To date, the Five Rivers Conservation Project, in Australia, and the Valdivian Coastal power sources.
Reserve Conservation Project, in Chile, have been established.
Our total energy consumption was up 10.2 per cent on FY2012, largely driven by increased production at our Worsley and Onshore 2.8.
Within Australia, in compliance with the national The sustainability of our operations relies on our ability to obtain Energy Efficiency Opportunities EEO Act 2006, we progressed the appropriate quality and quantity of water and to use this a number of energy efficiency measures.
The results of our resource responsibly.
participation in the EEO program for FY2013 will be available Addressing water risks across our operations online in December 2013 at w w w. bhpbilliton.
The range of potential water-related risks and their possible impacts 2.8.
9 Biodiversity and land management on water resources, biodiversity and communities makes managing Securing access to land and managing it effectively are essential water a complex task for our Businesses.
Water risks and impacts components of our commitment to operate in a responsible and experienced by our operations vary from region to region and sustainable manner.
We depend upon biodiversity and the related from site to site, with some sites facing multiple and varying risks.
benefits derived from ecosystems such as food, air and water.
Some are located in water scarce environments: others have to manage water excess, water quality or water discharge issues.
At the same time, we anticipate climate change is likely to make the patterns and cycles of water flow less predictable, requiring our operations to have adaptive responses.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 55 2 Information on the Company continued 2.8.
10 Water management continued hundreds of metres below the water table, with protective rock between the groundwater aquifers and the shale gas formation.
To address issues related to water availability and stakeholder The hydraulic fracturing process enables hydrocarbons to be released expectations, our operations are required to develop a Water into the wells, which are lined with protective steel casings and Management Plan.
The plan takes into consideration the baseline cemented across the groundwater intervals and water-producing quantity and quality of water potentially affected by our operations formations to form continuous barriers between the well and and requires the operation to quantify the acceptable level of impact any groundwater.
to water resources, taking into account regulatory requirements and stakeholder expectations.
Our operations also consider cumulative We do not drill or conduct hydraulic fracturing operations in an effects on water resources when multiple operations are active withi n area without having confidence that water resources are protected.
Preventive and mitigating controls necessary to achieve the Our goal is to minimise our impact on surface water and groundwater acceptable level of impact are detailed in the plan, and each operation and protect local resources.
We have introduced an initiative is required to implement a monitoring and review program that to reduce water usage across our operations and are evaluating verifies the effectiveness of these controls.
technologies to improve the re-use and recycling of water.
The water produced from the wells, including the hydraulic fracturing fluids, To manage for potential risks, we set a target in FY2013 that required is disposed of in accordance with applicable oil and gas industry operations with water-related material risks, including volume and regulations and BHP Billiton operating standards.
The composition quality considerations, to set targets and to implement projects of hydraulic fracturing fluids, including chemicals, is publicly to reduce their impacts on water resources.
This target recognises disclosed in the hydraulic fracturing Chemical Disclosure Registry, the local and regional context of water, and allows operations FracFocus w w w. fr acfocus.
to annually review and define the necessary projects that will best address their material water risks.
11 Supporting and engaging with our communities 80 projects that were expected to be completed during FY2013, With operations across the globe, we interact with a wide range of which 54 were implemented.
The reasons projects were not of stakeholders who represent our host communities, regions and implemented included a need to defer the project due to changing nations.
We take their views and concerns into account in our business priorities, projects were found to not be viable after initial decision-making and always strive for mutually beneficial outcomes.
investigation or not likely to achieve the original benefits, or they We define stakeholders as those who are potentially affected were replaced with new projects to address the current needs of our Businesses.
by our operations or who have an interest in or influence what we do.
Our operations are required to establish platforms for Water reporting dialogue and to consider stakeholder expectations and concerns Unlike the more established accounting approach to GHG emissions, for activities throughout the life cycle of an operation.
there is no internationally consistent approach to water accounting Effectively engaging with communities and reporting.
However, during FY2013, we aligned our water reporting across our global operations with the Minerals Council We seek to build trust with stakeholders at the earliest possible of Australias Water Accounting Framework.
The framework aims stage of a projects life.
Our Community GLD requires that a to improve data integrity, allow more meaningful analysis on which Stakeholder Engagement Management Plan be in place from to base policy making and deliver improved outcomes for industry the development phase of a project and be reviewed annually.
In adopting the Minerals Council of Australia The plans identify the interests and relationships of stakeholders Water Accounting Framework across our operations globally, and contain a range of culturally and socially inclusive engagement we have refined the way we publicly report our water usage so as activities to encourage open communication.
to incorporate water inputs by source and quality, and water output Engagement activities vary from monthly meetings to open by quality and destination.
public forums, with topics ranging from town amenity and Managing waste housing to impacts of growth and expansion projects, contractor management, security, cultural issues and socio-economic Mining and minerals processing operations produce large quantities development.
Our responses to concerns or complaints are of mineral waste, including waste rock, tailings and slag, which recorded, as are any commitments we may make.
need to be effectively managed.
Our operations are required to implement and maintain Waste Management Plans, which address Our operations are required to measure the effectiveness of their waste minimisation, storage, transportation and disposal in a stakeholder engagement by conducting community perception manner that controls the risk of adverse impacts on the environment surveys every three years.
These surveys provide a valuable external and communities.
perspective on the quality of our engagement and whether our stakeholders believe we are effectively addressing the key concerns Tailings dams are operated, monitored and assessed to manage of their communities.
material risks, including the risk of failure.
We are required to analyse mineral wastes and identify potential impacts arising Addressing community concerns from erosion, acid rock drainage, salinity, radioactivity and metal Our operations are required to have local processes to accept, leaching.
Our Environment GLD prohibits the disposal of tailings assess and resolve community concerns, complaints and grievances or waste rock into river or marine environments.
about the performance or behaviour of BHP Billiton and our Safely managing our unconventional oil and gas resources people.
The processes reflect the country context and associated risks and are transparent, culturally appropriate and readily Following our entry into the onshore shale business in CY2011, accessible to all segments of the community.
As part of the we established our North America Shale Operating principles to resolution process, all complaints and grievances are required guide how we operate.
Public concerns have been raised about risks to be acknowledged, documented and investigated internally.
related to hydraulic fracturing fluids, groundwater contamination, As required, appropriate actions are implemented and complainants seismicity, land resources, GHG emissions and increased vehicular are advised of the outcome.
We work to understand these risks and what can be done to reduce or eliminate any potential impacts associated with our Free Prior and Informed Consent operations.
Our North America Shale Operating Principles highlight We have worked with the ICMM to develop a progressive position our commitment to be the safest company in the industry: protect statement on Indigenous Peoples and Mining.
This statement, the land where we operate: safeguard and manage our water which comes into effect in May 2015, specifically addresses the resources: minimise air emissions from our operations: and to issue of Free Prior and Informed Consent FPIC.
As a member of be a good neighbour to our communities.
ICMM, we will work to incorporate these elements in our internal Producing gas from shale involves injecting water, sand and a standards, engage with government and potentially impacted small amount of chemicals under high pressure into the shale rock.
Indigenous peoples and endeavour to obtain the relevant consent This process is known as hydraulic fracturing.
Typically, this occurs for our new projects in accordance with the statement.
56 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.8.
11 Supporting and engaging with are developed to mitigate identified risks.
The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights VPs assist organisations to maintain our communities continued the safety and security of their operations through the provision The statement describes FPIC as a process based on good faith of an operating framework.
negotiation through which Indigenous peoples can give or withhold their consent using processes consistent with their traditional We use both public and private security providers to protect our decision-making practices.
Supporting commitments address people and assets.
Our Security and Emergency Management GLD understanding their rights and interests, building cross-cultural requires private security providers engaged by BHP Billiton to be understanding, and agreeing on appropriate engagement processes signatories to, or agree in writing to align with, the International and participation in decision-making.
Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers.
In addition to this, written advice is given to security providers outlining our A number of related commitments address how ICMM members commitment to the VPs and our expectations.
Occasionally, should engage where government is responsible for managing it is necessary to provide armed security protection for the safety Indigenous peoples interests and how to move forward when of our people.
Firearms are only deployed under a set of approved differences of opinion arise.
The ICMMs position recognises the rules of engagement and when it can be demonstrated that no right of governments to ultimately make decisions on development other options exist to protect a human life, to carry out stewardship of resources and that, in most countries, neither Indigenous peoples requirements such as injured livestock management or as a means nor other groups have a right to veto projects.
Where consent of last resort when threatened by dangerous wildlife.
Criteria for cannot be reached, a host government may decide to proceed the use of firearms and rules of engagement must comply with the with a project after balancing the rights and interests of Indigenous International Association of Oil and Gas Producers, Firearms and peoples with the wider population.
In these circumstances, it will the Use of Force Report number 320, Revision 2. be up to ICMM member companies to determine whether they remain involved with the project.
13 Making a positive contribution to society Acknowledging customary rights We believe we have an economic and social responsibility to make a positive contribution to the development of communities, At a very early stage in a project, we seek to identify landowners, regions and countries where we operate.
occupiers and users who may be affected by our activities.
Knowing who is connected to and uses the land is critical to establishing Our broad socio-economic contribution an effective community consultation and engagement program.
At a Group level, we are an active participant in industry and It helps to ensure people potentially affected by our operations sustainable development forums, such as the ICMM.
We seek are fully aware of our activities and have an opportunity to express to understand our socio-economic impact on local communities their concerns and aspirations.
Arising from this engagement, and host regions through our participation in the ICMMs Mining: the operational work plan may be amended to reduce potential Partnerships for Development initiative.
This global initiative impacts on landowners and users.
builds on the ICMMs Resource Endowment initiative and seeks to enhance minings contribution to development and poverty Surveys are commissioned to identify the customary owners and how the land is being used to ensure these uses are taken into reduction through multi-stakeholder partnerships.
account in our development plans.
In instances where land may We engage with governments on a range of policy issues and be used for customary purposes and no formal land title has been also play a role in advocating transparent and ethical governance, issued, information is requested from relevant organisations, through our own actions and in discussion with opinion leaders.
including government authorities with responsibilities for customary Nationally and regionally, we contribute taxes and royalties to land uses and Indigenous peoples representative organisations, governments that in turn provide infrastructure and services to such as land and tribal councils.
Further enquiries are also made their constituents.
Additionally, we often develop infrastructure directly with the people in the area to help identify those with that provides local communities and businesses with benefits such connections to the land.
as airports, roads, community childcare centres and medical clinics.
12 Respecting human rights Training and employing local people is important to us.
However, We have a responsibility to understand our potential impacts on our ability to have a significant impact on unemployment is limited human rights and to mitigate or eliminate them.
We are committed by the nature of our operations, as typically we require highly skilled to operating in accordance with the United Nations UN Universal people with relevant industry and technical experience.
We make Declaration of Human Rights, UN Guiding Principles on Business and a broader economic contribution through indirect employment, Human Rights and the UN Global Compact Principles, Our Charter where we focus on building the capacity of local businesses to and Code of Business Conduct, and the performance requirements provide us with a diverse range of services and products.
In FY2013, detailed in our GLDs support this commitment.
63 per cent of our Group spend was with local and regional suppliers.
Local and regional spend, in this context, refers to spend within the Our human rights due diligence process communities in which we operate and the regions, such as states Our human rights due diligence process requires our operations and provinces, where our operations are located.
to identify and document key potential human rights risks by completing a human rights impact assessment HRIA.
We require We voluntarily invest one per cent of our pre-tax profit, calculated on the average of the previous three years pre-tax each HRIA to be verified and validated through an engagement process with stakeholders, and by a qualified specialist every profit, in community programs that aim to have a long-lasting positive impact on peoples quality of life.
This includes three years and must be internally reviewed on an annual basis.
Where a HRIA identifies a material risk, we require that a Human implementing new and supporting existing community projects.
Rights Management Plan be developed and implemented.
Investing in the community Selected employees and contractors receive training on how Our community development programs are focused on improving to comply with BHP Billitons human rights commitments.
the quality of life for people in our host communities.
Each community Security and country risk development project is required to be linked to a Community Our Security and Emergency Management GLD requires all Development Management Plan.
The plans are developed in consultation with local stakeholders and formulated from data our operations to identify security-related material risks to our people and property and engage relevant stakeholders to gathered from an impacts and opportunities assessment and a social baseline study that identifies key quality-of-life indicators.
develop and manage security programs that respect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
The nature and global reach of our We will monitor progress by tracking changes against these indicators every three years.
organisation can result in our people working in countries where there is potential exposure to personal and business risk.
We require an assessment of each country for the degree of risk associated with visiting, exploring and operating within it: and appropriate controls BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 57 2 Information on the Company continued 2.8.
13 Making a positive contribution to society continued By working to Our Charter we align our people around our common purpose and values.
We all use Our Charter as a vital reference Community development projects are selected on the basis of point for how we do business, wherever we are in the world, their capacity to have a positive impact on quality-of-life indicators and whatever work we do.
for the relevant community and to support the Groups licence to operate.
Projects are required to have documented objectives Our organisation is structured in three component parts: our five specifically linked to the achievement of long-term, sustainable core Businesses as of 10 May 2013, Group Functions and Marketing outcomes and improvements in indicators identified in the social each part of the organisation has a clear mandate that sets out baseline study.
Prior to approval, community projects are required the scope of responsibilities and accountabilities.
to be assessed in relation to anti-corruption requirements, and are The average number of employees and contractors over the last implemented in accordance with our Code of Business Conduct.
three financial years is as follows: During FY2013, our voluntary community investment totalled US$245.8 million, comprising US$121 million cash, US$18.8 million Year ended 30 June 2013 2012 2011 for in-kind support and administrative costs, and a US$106 million Employees 49,496 46,370 40,757 contribution to the BHP Billiton Foundation.
The BHP Billiton Contractors 79,330 78,813 64,548 Foundation was established in FY2013 to identify and support large sustainable development projects in countries and regions of Total 128,826 125,183 105,305 interest to BHP Billiton to complement the local programs managed by our assets.
This builds on contributions that have previously The percentages of females in our workforce and of our senior been made to the BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities charitable leaders are as follows: organisation in the United Kingdom.
During FY2013, BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities expenditure was US$17 million, which Year ended 30 June 2013 2012 2011 included major projects, support for disaster relief efforts and Female employees 17% 17% 16% donations to not-for-profit organisations as part of the Companys Senior leaders 366 406 364 Matched Giving Program.
At the end of June 2013, BHP Billiton Female senior leaders 11% 10% 10% Sustainable Communities and the BHP Billiton Foundation had a total of US$277.4 million in funds available for future sustainable For further information about our employees and our approach development projects.
to diversity, refer to sections 2.8.
7, 5.17 and 7.8 of this Community investment Annual Report.
The table below provides a breakdown of the average number of Year ended 30 June 2013 2012 2011 employees, in accordance with our International Financial Reporting 1 Community investment US$M 245.8 214.1 195.5 Standards IFRS reporting requirements, which includes our proportionate share of jointly controlled entities employees, 1 The expenditure represents BHP Billitons equity share for both operated the Executive Director and 100 per cent of employees of subsidiary and non-operated joint venture operations.
companies, by Business for each of the past three financial years.
The US$121 million cash component of our investment supported Part-time employees are included on a full-time equivalent basis.
community programs, the Groups charitable foundations excluding Employees of businesses acquired or disposed of during a particular the BHP Billiton Foundation and the enterprise development and year are included for the period of ownership.
Contractors are not socio-economic development components of our broad-based included in the figures below.
Black Economic Empowerment programs in South Africa.
Of the Year ended 30 June 2013 2012 2011 US$121 million in cash expenditure during FY2013, 37 per cent was invested in local communities, 41 per cent was invested Petroleum and Potash 3,838 3,273 2,430 regionally and the remaining 22 per cent was invested in national Copper 9,648 8,775 7,602 or international programs in countries where we operate.
Iron Ore 8,140 5,784 4,047 Supporting employee contributions through matched giving Coal 14,225 13,512 12,771 In addition to the social programs directly supported by the Group, Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel 11,115 11,388 10,437 many of our employees make a valuable contribution to their local Group and unallocated 2,530 3,638 3,470 communities by giving donations and their personal time and expertise to a range of activities.
One of the most significant ways Total 49,496 46,370 40,757 we support the efforts of our employees engaged in community activities is through our global Matched Giving Program, whereby The increase in employees during FY2013 is primarily due to the employee volunteering hours and donation contributions are increase in Iron Ore as a result of the expansion of Jimblebar.
The program aims to strengthen local communities For further information regarding the expansion of Jimblebar, by supporting and encouraging employees who volunteer or donate refer to section 2.2.
In FY2013, more than 5,700 employees The table below provides a breakdown of our average number participated in the Matched Giving Program, volunteering a total of employees by geographic location for each of the past three of approximately 56,800 hours of their own time to community financial years.
Employee contributions benefited more than 1,500 not-for-profit organisations, which received Year ended 30 June 2013 2012 2011 US$7.5 million as part of the program.
Africa 9,280 10,311 10,061 Asia 1,183 1,114 970 2.9 Employees Australasia 21,953 19,330 16,222 People are the foundation of our organisation and underpin our Europe 289 532 560 success.
We value our people and encourage the development North America 5,158 4,166 3,168 of talented and motivated employees to support the continued South America 11,633 10,917 9,776 performance and growth of our diverse operations.
We strive to build a sense of purpose and achievement among all our people Total 49,496 46,370 40,757 in the work we do.
58 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report the economic and voting interests attached to each 2.10 Organisational structure BHP Billiton Limited share and each BHP Billiton Plc share are 2.10.1 General the same, since the Equalisation Ratio is 1:1.
The Equalisation Ratio would change if either BHP Billiton Limited or The BHP Billiton Group consists of the BHP Billiton Limited Group and the BHP Billiton Plc Group as a combined enterprise, BHP Billiton Plc returned value to only its shareholders and no matching action was taken.
following the completion of the DLC merger in June 2001.
Refer to note 26 Subsidiaries to the financial statements for a list of This means that the amount of any cash dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc significant subsidiaries.
BHP Billiton Limited in respect of each BHP Billiton Limited share is normally matched by an equivalent cash dividend by The BHP Billiton DLC merger was designed to place shareholders of both companies in a position where they effectively have an BHP Billiton Plc in respect of each BHP Billiton Plc share, and vice versa.
If one company has insufficient profits or is otherwise interest in a single group that combines the assets, and is subject to the liabilities, of both companies.
BHP Billiton Limited and unable to pay the agreed dividend, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc will, as far as practicable, enter into such BHP Billiton Plc have each retained their separate corporate identities and maintain separate stock exchange listings, but they transactions as are necessary to enable both companies to pay the agreed amount of pre-tax dividends per share.
are operated and managed as if they are a single unified economic entity, with their boards and senior executive management Joint Electorate Actions comprising the same people.
Under the terms of the DLC agreements, the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association have 2.10.2 DLC structure implemented special voting arrangements so that the shareholders The principles of the BHP Billiton DLC are reflected in the of both companies vote together as a single decision-making body BHP Billiton Sharing Agreement and include the following: on matters affecting the shareholders of each company in similar the two companies are to operate as if they are a single unified ways such matters are referred to as Joint Electorate Actions.
economic entity, through Boards of Directors that comprise the For so long as the Equalisation Ratio remains 1:1, each same individuals and a unified senior executive management: BHP Billiton Limited share will effectively have the same voting the Directors of both companies will, in addition to their duties rights as each BHP Billiton Plc share on Joint Electorate Actions.
to the company concerned, have regard to the interests of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders A Joint Electorate Action requires approval by ordinary resolution or special resolution if required by statute, regulation, applicable as if the two companies were a single unified economic entity and, for that purpose, the Directors of each company take into account listing rules or other applicable requirements of BHP Billiton Limited and also of BHP Billiton Plc.
Both the BHP Billiton Limited ordinary in the exercise of their powers the interests of the shareholders of the other: shareholders and the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share vote as a single class and, in the case of BHP Billiton certain DLC equalisation principles must be observed.
These are Plc, the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shareholders and the holder of the designed to ensure that for so long as the Equalisation Ratio BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share vote as a single class.
between a BHP Billiton Limited share and a BHP Billiton Plc share is 1:1, the economic and voting interests in the combined Class Rights Actions BHP Billiton Group resulting from the holding of one In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies BHP Billiton Limited share are equivalent to that resulting from of shareholders may have divergent interests referred to as Class one BHP Billiton Plc share.
Further details are set out in the Rights Actions, the company wishing to carry out the Class Rights sub-section Equalisation of economic and voting rights below.
Action requires the prior approval of the shareholders in the other Additional documents that affect the DLC include: company voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval of its own shareholders voting separately.
Depending on the type BHP Billiton Limited Constitution of Class Rights Action undertaken, the approval required is either BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association an ordinary or special resolution of the relevant company.
BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed These voting arrangements are secured through the constitutional BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee documents of the two companies, the BHP Billiton Sharing BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
Agreement, the BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed and rights Australian Foreign Investment Review Board FIRB conditions attaching to a specially created Special Voting Share issued by The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject to each company and held in each case by a Special Voting Company.
certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that, among The shares in the Special Voting Companies are held legally and other things, BHP Billiton Limited continues to: beneficially by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
be an Australian company, which is managed from Australia: Cross guarantees ultimately manage and control the companies conducting the BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each executed a business that was conducted by it at the time of the merger for Deed Poll Guarantee, pursuant to which creditors entitled to the as long as those businesses form part of the BHP Billiton Group.
benefit of the BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee and the BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee will, to the extent possible, The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment be placed in the same position as if the relevant debts were of the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 owed by both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc on a or any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer of Australia.
If BHP Billiton Limited no longer wishes to comply with these conditions, it must obtain the prior approval of the Treasurer.
Restrictions on takeovers of one company only Failure to comply with the conditions attracts substantial The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles penalties under the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975. of Association have been drafted to ensure that, except with the Equalisation of economic and voting rights consent of the Board, a person cannot gain control of one company without having made an equivalent offer to the shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc both companies on equivalent terms.
Sanctions for breach of these shareholders have economic and voting interests in the combined provisions would include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions BHP Billiton Group.
The economic and voting interests represented and the compulsory divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder by a share in one company relative to the economic and voting and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
interests of a share in the other company are determined by reference to a ratio known as the Equalisation Ratio.
Presently, BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 59 2 Information on the Company continued authorising such a situation.
Where the Board gives such 2.11 Material contracts authorisation, the Board may prohibit, or may establish regulations DLC agreements which prohibit, the relevant Director from voting on any matter On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited relating to the conflict.
The Board has adopted procedures and BHP Billiton Plc then known as Billiton Plc merged by way of a to manage these voting restrictions.
To effect the DLC, BHP Limited and Billiton Plc as they Subject to applicable laws, a Director is entitled to vote, and were then known entered into the following agreements designed be counted in the quorum, in respect of any resolution concerning to place the shareholders of both companies in a position where any of the following matters, namely where the material they effectively have an interest in a single group that combines personal interest: the assets, and is subject to all the liabilities, of both companies: arises because the Director is a shareholder of BHP Billiton and BHP Billiton Sharing Agreement is held in common with the other shareholders of BHP Billiton: BHP Billiton Special Voting Shares Deed arises in relation to the Directors remuneration as a Director BHP Billiton Limited Deed Poll Guarantee of BHP Billiton: BHP Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantee.
relates to a contract BHP Billiton is proposing to enter into that is subject to approval by the shareholders and will not impose any The effect of each of these agreements and the manner in which they operate are described in section 2.10 of this Annual Report.
obligation on BHP Billiton if it is not approved by the shareholders: arises merely because the Director is a guarantor or has given an indemnity or security for all or part of a loan, or proposed 2.12 Constitution loan, to BHP Billiton: The following text summarises the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited arises merely because the Director has a right of subrogation and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc.
The effect of the in relation to a guarantee or indemnity referred to above: Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association relates to a contract that insures, or would insure, the Director of BHP Billiton Plc is, so far as possible, identical.
Where the against liabilities the Director incurs as an officer of BHP Billiton, term BHP Billiton is used in this description of the Constitution but only if the contract does not make BHP Billiton or a related and Articles of Association, it can be read to mean either body corporate the insurer: BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc.
relates to any payment by BHP Billiton or a related body corporate in respect of an indemnity permitted by law, or any contract Certain provisions of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc can only be amended relating to such an indemnity: or where such amendment is approved by special resolution either: is in a contract, or proposed contract with, or for the benefit by approval as a Class Rights Action, where the amendment of, or on behalf of, a related body corporate and arises merely because the Director is a director of a related body corporate.
results in a change to an Entrenched Provision: or otherwise, as a Joint Electorate Action.
2.12.4 Loans by Directors A description of Joint Electorate Actions and Class Rights Actions Any Director may lend money to BHP Billiton at interest with or is contained under the heading Equalisation of economic and voting without security or may, for a commission or profit, guarantee the rights in section 2.10.2 of this Annual Report.
repayment of any money borrowed by BHP Billiton and underwrite or guarantee the subscription of shares or securities of BHP Billiton 2.12.1 Directors or of any corporation in which BHP Billiton may be interested The management and control of the business and affairs of without being disqualified as a Director and without being liable BHP Billiton are vested in the Board of Directors, which may exercise to account to BHP Billiton for any commission or profit.
all powers of BHP Billiton, other than those which are required to be exercised or done by BHP Billiton in a general meeting.
2.12.5 Retirement of Directors In 2011, the Board adopted a policy consistent with the 2.12.2 Power to issue securities UK Corporate Governance Code, under which all Directors must, BHP Billiton may, pursuant to the Constitution and Articles of if they wish to remain on the Board, seek re-election by shareholders Association, issue any shares or other securities including redeemable annually.
This policy took effect at the 2011 Annual General Meetings, shares with preferred, deferred or other special rights, obligations and replaced the previous system, as set out in the Constitution or restrictions as and when the Directors may determine and on and Articles of Association, under which Directors were required any other terms the Directors consider appropriate, provided that: to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election at least any such issue does not affect any special rights conferred every three years.
on the holders of any shares: 2.12.6 Rights attaching to shares any such issue is subject to the provisions regarding shareholder Dividend rights approval in the Constitution and Articles of Association: Under English law, dividends on shares may only be paid out the rights attaching to a class other than ordinary shares of profits available for distribution.
Under Australian law, dividends are expressed at the date of issue.
on shares may only be paid out of net assets, provided that the 2.12.3 Restrictions on voting by Directors payment is fair and reasonable to the companys shareholders A Director may not vote in respect of any contract or arrangement as a whole and the payment of the dividend does not materially or any other proposal in which he or she has a material personal prejudice the companys ability to pay its creditors.
A Director shall not be counted in the quorum at a meeting and Articles of Association provide that payment of any dividend in relation to any resolution on which he or she is not entitled may be made in any manner, by any means and in any currency to vote.
In addition, under the UK Companies Act 2006, a Director has All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have by the Board for the benefit of whichever of BHP Billiton Limited a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or may conflict with the or BHP Billiton Plc declared that dividend, until claimed or, in interests of the company.
The duty is not infringed, if among other the case of BHP Billiton Limited, otherwise disposed of according things, the situation is authorised by non-interested Directors.
In the case of BHP Billiton Plc, any dividend unclaimed The Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc enable the Board to after a period of 12 years from the date on which such dividend authorise a matter that might otherwise involve a Director breaching was declared or became due for payment shall be forfeited and his or her duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
An interested Director shall revert to BHP Billiton Plc.
may not vote or be counted towards a quorum for a resolution 60 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.12.6 Rights attaching to shares continued Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs profits Voting rights The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Plc, in relation to the participation in the profits available for distribution, Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Limited shareholders are as follows: can, in the first instance, be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll is demanded by any of the following except in relation The holders of the cumulative preference shares shall be entitled, in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other to the election of a chairman of a meeting or, unless the Chairman otherwise determines, the adjournment of a meeting, or is otherwise class of shares, to be paid a fixed cumulative preferential dividend Preferential Dividend at a rate of 5.5 per cent per annum, to be required as outlined below : paid annually in arrears on 31 July in each year or, if any such date the Chairman: shall be a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday in England, on the any shareholder under the law: or first business day following such date in each year.
Payments of the holder of the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share.
Preferential Dividends shall be made to holders on the register Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc can, in the at any date selected by the Directors up to 42 days prior to the first instance, be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll is relevant fixed dividend date.
demanded by any of the following, except in relation to the election Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference of a chairman of a meeting or, unless the Chairman otherwise shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other determines, the adjournment of a meeting, or is otherwise required classes of shares, the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special as outlined below : Voting Share shall be entitled to be paid a fixed dividend of the Chairman: US$0.01 per annum, payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
not less than five members present in person or by proxy Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference and entitled to vote: shares and the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes of shares, a member or members present in person or by proxy and representing not less than five per cent of the total voting rights the holder of the Equalisation Share shall be entitled to be paid such dividends as the Board may decide to pay thereon.
of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above the holder of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share.
shall be payable to the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary As described under the heading Equalisation of economic and shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share.
voting rights in section 2.10.2 of this Annual Report, certain matters may be decided as Joint Electorate Actions or Class Rights Actions.
2.12.7 Right on a return of assets on liquidation Any matter considered by shareholders at an Annual General On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Limited, the Meeting of BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc constitutes assets of BHP Billiton Limited remaining available for distribution a Joint Electorate Action and shall therefore be decided on a poll.
among shareholders, after giving effect to the payment of all prior Therefore, in practice, generally all items of business at Annual ranking amounts owed to all creditors and holders of preference General Meetings proceed directly to poll.
shares, and to all prior ranking statutory entitlements, shall be applied in paying to the holders of the BHP Billiton Limited Special In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than Voting Share and the Equalisation Share if any an amount of up a procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which to A$2.00 on each such share, on an equal priority with any amount the holder of the relevant BHP Billiton Special Voting Share paid to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares, and is entitled to vote shall be decided on a poll.
any surplus remaining shall be applied in making payments solely For the purposes of determining which shareholders are to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares in accordance entitled to attend or vote at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or with their entitlements.
BHP Billiton Limited, and how many votes such shareholder may On a return of assets on liquidation of BHP Billiton Plc, subject to cast, the relevant company will specify in any notice of meeting the payment of all prior ranking amounts owed to the creditors of a time, not more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the BHP Billiton Plc and to all prior ranking statutory entitlements, the meeting, by which a shareholder must be entered on the Register assets of BHP Billiton Plc to be distributed on a winding up shall be of Shareholders in order to have the right to attend or vote at distributed to the holders of shares in the following order of priority: the relevant meeting.
To the holders of the cumulative preference shares, the repayment Shareholders who wish to appoint a proxy to attend, vote of a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid or speak at a meeting of BHP Billiton Plc or BHP Billiton Limited up on the cumulative preference shares held by them and accrual, as appropriate on their behalf, must deposit the relevant form if any, of the Preferential Dividend, whether such dividend appointing a proxy in accordance with the instructions contained has been earned or declared or not, calculated up to the date in any notice of meeting, so as to be received in the specified of commencement of the winding-up.
manner not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for To the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc ordinary shares and to holding the meeting to which the appointment of a proxy relates.
the holders of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the Rights to share in BHP Billiton Limiteds profits Equalisation Share, the payment out of surplus, if any, remaining The rights attached to the shares of BHP Billiton Limited, after the distribution above of an equal amount for each as regards the participation in the profits available for distribution, BHP Billiton Plc ordinary share, the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting are as follows: Share and the Equalisation Share, if issued, subject to a maximum in the case of the BHP Billiton Plc Special Voting Share and the The holders of any preference shares shall be entitled, in priority Equalisation Share of the nominal capital paid up on such shares.
to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other class of shares, to a preferred right to participate as regards dividends up to but not beyond a specified amount in distribution.
Subject to the special rights attaching to any preference shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other classes of shares, the holder of the Equalisation Share if any shall be entitled to be paid such dividends as are declared or paid thereon.
Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions above shall be payable to the holders of BHP Billiton Limited ordinary shares and the BHP Billiton Limited Special Voting Share in equal amounts per share.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 61 2 Information on the Company continued 2.12.8 Redemption of preference shares General meetings can also be cancelled, postponed or adjourned, where permitted by law or the Constitution or Articles of If BHP Billiton Limited at any time proposes to create and issue Association.
Notice of a general meeting must be given to each any preference shares, the preference shares may be issued on shareholder entitled to vote at the meeting and such notice of the terms that they are to be redeemed or, at the option of either meeting must be given in the form and manner in which the Board or both BHP Billiton Limited and the holder, are liable to be thinks fit.
Five shareholders of the relevant company present in redeemed, whether out of share capital, profits or otherwise.
person or by proxy constitute a quorum for a meeting.
A shareholder The preference shares confer on the holders the right to convert who is entitled to attend and cast a vote at a general meeting the preference shares into ordinary shares if, and on the basis, of BHP Billiton may appoint a person as a proxy to attend and the Board determines at the time of issue of the preference shares.
vote for the shareholder in accordance with the law.
The preference shares are to confer on the holders: 2.12.13 Limitations on rights to own securities the right on redemption and on a winding up to payment in Neither the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited nor the Articles cash in priority to any other class of shares of i the amount of Association of BHP Billiton Plc impose any limitations on the paid or agreed to be considered as paid on each of the preference rights to own securities other than restrictions that reflect the shares: ii the amount, if any, equal to the aggregate of any takeovers codes under relevant Australian and UK law.
In addition, dividends accrued but unpaid and of any arrears of dividends: and the Australian Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 the right, in priority to any payment of dividend on any other imposes a number of conditions that restrict foreign ownership class of shares, to the preferential dividend.
There is no equivalent provision in the Articles of Association Share control limits imposed by the Constitution and the Articles of BHP Billiton Plc although as noted in section 2.12.2 above, of Association, as well as relevant laws, are described in sections BHP Billiton can issue preference shares which are subject to 2.7.
2 and 2.10.2 of this Annual Report.
a right of redemption on terms the Board considers appropriate.
2.12.14 Documents on display 2.12.9 Capital calls You can consult reports and other information about Subject to the terms on which any shares may have been issued, BHP Billiton Limited that it has filed pursuant to the rules of the the Board may make calls on the shareholders in respect of all Australian Securities Exchange ASX at w w w. asx.
You can monies unpaid on their shares.
BHP Billiton has a lien on every consult reports and other information filed for publication by partly paid share for all amounts payable in respect of that share.
BHP Billiton Plc pursuant to the rules of the UK Listing Authority Each shareholder is liable to pay the amount of each call in the at the Authoritys document viewing facility the National Storage manner, at the time and at the place specified by the Board subject Mechanism at w w w. morningstar.
Information filed to receiving at least 14 days notice specifying the time and place on the ASX or pursuant to the rules of the UK Listing Authority is for payment.
A call is considered to have been made at the time not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.
The documents when the resolution of the Board authorising the call was passed.
referred to in this Annual Report as being available on our website, w w w. bhpbilliton.
com, are not incorporated by reference and do not 2.12.10 Borrowing powers form part of this Annual Report.
Subject to relevant law, the Directors may exercise all powers of BHP Billiton to borrow money, and to mortgage or charge its BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc both file annual and special undertaking, property, assets both present and future and all reports and other information with the US Securities and Exchange uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and to issue debentures Commission SEC.
These filings are available on the SEC website at and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for w w w. sec.
go v. You may also read and copy any document that either any debt, liability or obligation of BHP Billiton or of any third party.
BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc files at the SECs public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
2.12.11 Changes to rights of shareholders Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 or access the SEC website at Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either w w w. sec.
go v for further information on the public reference room.
BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied whether as a Joint Electorate Action or a Class Rights Action where such 2.13 Reserves and resources variation is approved both: by the Company that issued the relevant shares, as a 2.13.1 Petroleum reserves special resolution: and Reserves and production by the holders of the issued shares of the affected class, either by BHP Billiton Petroleum proved reserves are estimated and reported a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of according to SEC standards.
For FY2013, proved oil and gas reserves the issued shares of the class affected, or with the written consent have been determined in accordance with SEC Rule 4-10 a of of members with at least 75 per cent of the votes of that class.
Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities 2.12.12 Conditions governing general meetings of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids NGL, which, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data can be estimated All provisions relating to general meetings apply with any necessary with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from modifications to any special meeting of any class of shareholders a given date forward from known reservoirs, and under existing that may be held.
Therefore, the following information relates economic conditions, operating methods, operating contracts and equally to general meetings and any special meeting of any class government regulations.
Unless evidence indicates that renewal of shareholders.
of existing operating contracts is reasonably certain, estimates of The Board may and shall on requisition in accordance with economically producible reserves reflect only the period before the applicable laws call a general meeting of the shareholders contracts expire.
The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have at the time and place or places and in the manner determined commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will by the Board.
No shareholder may convene a general meeting of commence within a reasonable time.
Developed oil and gas reserves BHP Billiton except where entitled under law to do so.
Any Director are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing may convene a general meeting whenever the Director thinks fit.
wells with existing equipment and operating methods, and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserve estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well.
As specified in Rule 4-10 a of Regulation S-X, oil and gas prices are taken as the unweighted average of the corresponding first day of the month prices for the 12 months prior to the ending date of the period covered.
62 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.13.1 Petroleum reserves continued Petroleums reserves are estimated as of 30 June 2013.
Reserve assessments for all Petroleum properties were conducted by Estimates of oil and gas reserves are inherently imprecise, require technical staff within the operating organisation.
These individuals the application of judgement and are subject to future revision.
meet the professional qualifications outlined by the Society of Accordingly, financial and accounting measures such as the Petroleum Engineers, are trained in the fundamentals of SEC standardised measure of discounted cash flows, depreciation, reserves reporting and the reserves processes and are endorsed depletion and amortisation charges, the assessment of impairments by the PRG.
Each reserve assessment is reviewed annually by the and the assessment of valuation allowances against deferred PRG to ensure technical quality, adherence to internally published tax assets that are based on reserve estimates are also subject Petroleum business guidelines and compliance with SEC reporting to change.
Once endorsed by the PRG, all reserves receive Proved reserves were estimated by reference to available well and final endorsement by senior management and the Risk and Audit reservoir information, including but not limited to well logs, well test Committee prior to public reporting.
Our internal Group Risk data, core data, production and pressure data, geologic data, seismic Assessment and Assurance provides secondary assurance of the data and, in some cases, to similar data from analogous, producing oil and gas reserve reporting processes through annual audits.
A wide range of engineering and geoscience methods, 1 Production for FY2013 totalled 236 million barrels of oil equivalent including performance analysis, well analogues and geologic studies MMboe in sales, which is an increase of 14 MMboe over FY2012.
were used to estimate high confidence proved developed and There was an additional 5 MMboe in non-sales production, primarily undeveloped reserves in accordance with SEC regulations.
For our for fuel consumed in our Petroleum operations.
During FY2013, conventional assets, performance of producing wells was based on Petroleum added a total of 246 MMboe of proved oil and rate and pressure decline methods, including material balance, and gas reserves.
was supplemented by reservoir simulation where appropriate.
In our Excluding net purchases and sales of negative 2 MMboe, proved Onshore US shale assets, performance of producing wells was based on rate decline and pressure normalised decline curve analysis additions of 248 MMboe replaced 103 per cent of production sales through extensions, discoveries, revisions and improved recovery.
For wells that lacked sufficient production history, reserves were estimated using performance-based type curves and offset At 30 June 2013, approximately 48 per cent of our proved reserves were in conventional assets, while approximately 52 per cent were location analogues with similar geologic and reservoir characteristics.
When assessing proved undeveloped locations, a combination of in unconventional assets.
geologic and engineering data, and where appropriate, statistical New additions from extensions and discoveries totalled 501 MMboe, analysis was used to support the assignment of proved undeveloped primarily for new liquids-focused development projects in the Eagle reserves.
Performance data, along with log and core data, was used Ford area located onshore in the United States.
Improved recovery to delineate consistent, continuous reservoir characteristics in core additions were 14 MMboe and are associated with a water injection areas of the development.
Proved undeveloped locations were project at the Shenzi field in the Gulf of Mexico.
Revisions were included in core areas between known data and adjacent to negative 267 MMboe and are primarily related to deferral of productive wells.
Locations where a high degree of certainty could drilling in undeveloped areas of the Eagle Ford, Haynesville not be demonstrated using the above technologies and techniques, and Fayetteville areas that contain relatively dry gas with little were not categorised as proved.
Proved reserve estimates were attributed to future development Our proved reserves for conventional assets decreased by 7 MMboe projects only where there is a significant commitment to project in FY2013.
The Mad Dog Phase 2 project accounted for 65 MMboe funding and execution, and for which applicable government and of this reduction and was due to a partial sale of interest 2 MMboe regulatory approvals have been secured or are reasonably certain and the decision to send the project back to the study phase in view to be secured.
Furthermore, estimates of proved reserves include of higher projected costs for the originally approved development.
only volumes for which access to market is assured with reasonable Partially offsetting this were the noted Shenzi improved recovery certainty.
All proved reserve estimates are subject to revision, additions, extensions of 6 MMboe in fields in the North West Shelf either upward or downward, based on new information, such area of Australia and Atlantis in the Gulf of Mexico along with as from development drilling and production activities, or from 38 MMboe of revisions in several other fields.
changes in economic factors, including product prices, contract In the North American shale fields, proved reserves increased terms or development plans.
Net developed reserve extensions due to drilling The Petroleum Reserves Group PRG is a dedicated group that were 144 MMboe while conversions from undeveloped to developed provides oversight of the reserves assessment and reporting reserves totalled 44 MMboe.
Field performance added an additional processes.
It is independent of the various asset teams directly 28 MMboe to proved reserves.
During FY2013, forward drilling plans responsible for development and production activities.
The PRG were directed towards liquids-focused areas having higher value, is staffed by individuals averaging over 30 years experience in the and allowed 350 MMboe of proved undeveloped reserves to be oil and gas industry.
The manager of the PRG is a full-time employee added as extensions.
Proved undeveloped well locations that are of BHP Billiton and is the individual responsible for overseeing the now planned to be drilled in more than five years time, as a result preparation of the reserve estimates and compiling the information of refocused drilling plans, have been reclassified out of proved for inclusion in this Annual Report.
He has an advanced degree in undeveloped and resulted in a reduction of 269 MMboe.
engineering and over 30 years of diversified industry experience in These results are summarised in the tables below, which detail reservoir engineering, reserves assessment, field development and estimated oil, condensate, NGL and natural gas reserves at 30 June technical management and is a 30-year member of the Society of 2013, 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2011, with a reconciliation of the Petroleum Engineers SPE.
He has also served on the Society of changes in each year.
Reserves have been calculated using the Petroleum Engineers Oil and Gas Reserves Committee.
The PRG economic interest method and represent net interest volumes after manager has reviewed and agrees with the information included deduction of applicable royalty.
Reserves of 66 MMboe are in two in section 2.13.1 of this Annual Report.
No part of the individual production and risk-sharing arrangements that involve the Group compensation for members of the PRG is dependent on in upstream risks and rewards without transfer of ownership of reported reserves.
At 30 June 2013, approximately two per cent of the proved reserves are attributable to those arrangements.
1 Total boe conversion is based on the following: 6000 scf of natural gas equals 1 boe.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 63 2 Information on the Company continued 2.13.1 Petroleum reserves continued c Millions of barrels Australia United States Other Total a b Proved developed and undeveloped oil and condensate reserves Reserves at 30 June 2010 207.2 262.7 46.7 516.6 Improved recovery 0.4 21.2 21.6 Revisions of previous estimates 1.3 2.5 3.9 7.7 Extensions and discoveries 2.8 1.6 0.2 4.6 Purchase sales of reserves b Production 40.4 30.2 10.0 80.6 Total changes 36.0 4.8 5.9 46.7 Reserves at 30 June 2011 171.2 257.9 40.8 469.9 Improved recovery 33.2 33.2 Revisions of previous estimates 8.7 120.6 5.1 134.4 Extensions and discoveries 8.8 2.9 11.7 Purchase sales of reserves 32.0 32.0 b Production 31.2 30.8 9.2 71.2 Total changes 13.6 157.8 4.1 140.1 Reserves at 30 June 2012 157.6 415.7 36.6 610.0 Improved recovery 12.6 0.1 12.7 Revisions of previous estimates 13.7 65.7 1.1 50.9 Extensions and discoveries 0.2 137.5 0.2 137.9 Purchase sales of reserves 1.9 1.9 b Production 25.9 38.7 7.9 72.5 Total changes 12.0 43.8 6.5 25.4 Reserves at 30 June 2013 145.7 459.6 30.1 635.4 Developed Proved developed oil and condensate reserves as of 30 June 2010 150.1 104.5 42.2 296.8 as of 30 June 2011 116.0 92.2 38.5 246.7 as of 30 June 2012 101.5 148.6 36.5 286.6 Developed Reserves as of 30 June 2013 105.0 209.5 27.7 342.2 Undeveloped Proved undeveloped oil and condensate reserves as of 30 June 2010 57.1 158.2 4.5 219.8 as of 30 June 2011 55.2 165.7 2.2 223.1 as of 30 June 2012 56.2 267.1 0.1 323.4 Undeveloped Reserves as of 30 June 2013 40.6 250.1 2.5 293.2 a Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
b Production for reserves reconciliation differs slightly from marketable production due to timing of sales and corrections to previous estimates.
c Other is comprised of Algeria, Pakistan, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
64 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.13.1 Petroleum reserves continued c Millions of barrels Australia United States Other Total a Proved developed and undeveloped NGL reserves Reserves at 30 June 2010 109.5 11.7 2.2 123.4 Improved recovery 0.3 0.9 1.2 Revisions of previous estimates 0.7 1.0 0.2 0.5 Extensions and discoveries 0.4 0.4 Purchase sales of reserves b Production 8.0 2.0 1.3 11.3 Total changes 6.5 2.2 1.5 10.2 Reserves at 30 June 2011 102.9 9.6 0.7 113.2 Improved recovery 0.9 0.9 Revisions of previous estimates 0.2 49.7 0.1 49.9 Extensions and discoveries 2.1 2.1 Purchase sales of reserves 41.9 41.9 b Production 7.9 5.7 0.4 14.1 Total changes 7.7 89.0 0.5 80.8 Reserves at 30 June 2012 95.2 98.6 0.2 194.0 Improved recovery 1.0 1.0 Revisions of previous estimates 3.5 23.3 19.8 Extensions and discoveries 0.1 82.2 82.3 Purchase sales of reserves 0.0 b Production 7.9 9.6 17.5 Total changes 4.3 50.3 45.9 Reserves at 30 June 2013 90.9 148.9 0.2 239.9 Developed Proved developed NGL reserves as of 30 June 2010 67.0 4.4 2.2 73.6 as of 30 June 2011 60.3 2.6 0.7 63.6 as of 30 June 2012 53.9 22.5 0.2 76.6 Developed Reserves as of 30 June 2013 54.7 54.1 0.2 108.9 Undeveloped Proved undeveloped NGL reserves as of 30 June 2010 42.5 7.3 49.8 as of 30 June 2011 42.6 7.0 0.1 49.7 as of 30 June 2012 41.3 76.1 117.4 Undeveloped Reserves as of 30 June 2013 36.2 94.8 131.0 a Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
Production for reserves reconciliation differs slightly from marketable production due to timing of sales and corrections to previous estimates.
b Production for Australia includes gas sold as LNG.
c Production for reserves reconciliation differs slightly from marketable production due to timing of sales and corrections to previous estimates.
d Reserves at 30 June 2010 do not include volumes expected to be consumed by operations.
e Production includes volumes consumed by operations.
f Other is comprised of Algeria, Pakistan, Trinidad and Tobago and the United Kingdom.
66 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 2.13.1 Petroleum reserves continued a f Millions of barrels of oil equivalent Australia United States Other Total Proved developed and undeveloped oil, b condensate, natural gas and NGL reserves d Reserves at 30 June 2010 927.7 288.8 177.7 1,394.3 Improved recovery 0.7 22.6 23.3 Revisions of previous estimates 99.1 34.5 5.9 139.5 Extensions and discoveries 13.9 1.6 5.4 20.9 Purchase sales of reserves 415.1 415.1 c Production 94.2 40.3 24.9 159.4 Total changes 19.5 433.5 13.6 439.4 Reserves at 30 June 2011 947.2 722.4 164.1 1,833.7 Improved recovery 34.7 34.7 Revisions of previous estimates 23.9 225.0 9.9 258.8 Extensions and discoveries 9.9 26.4 36.3 Purchase sales of reserves 623.5 623.5 c e Production 85.1 113.0 30.1 228.2 Total changes 51.3 796.6 20.2 725.2 Reserves at 30 June 2012 895.9 1,519.0 143.9 2,558.8 Improved recovery 14.2 14.2 Revisions of previous estimates 23.0 282.3 8.1 267.3 Extensions and discoveries 1.8 498.9 0.2 500.9 Purchase sales of reserves 2.0 2.0 c e Production 83.7 130.2 27.3 241.2 Total changes 59.0 98.7 35.1 4.7 Reserves at 30 June 2013 837 1,617.7 108.8 2,563.5 Developed Proved developed oil, condensate, natural gas and NGL reserves d as of 30 June 2010 504.6 114 83.9 702.4 as of 30 June 2011 468.6 281.9 159.2 909.7 as of 30 June 2012 425.1 628.2 142.5 1,195.8 Developed Reserves as of 30 June 2013 605.5 779.2 106.3 1,491.0 Undeveloped Proved developed oil, condensate, natural gas and NGL reserves d as of 30 June 2010 423.2 174.9 93.8 691.9 as of 30 June 2011 478.6 440.5 4.9 924.0 as of 30 June 2012 470.8 890.8 1.4 1,363.0 Undeveloped Reserves as of 30 June 2013 231.5 838.5 2.5 1,072.5 a Barrel oil equivalent conversion based on 6,000 scf of natural gas equals 1 boe.
b Small differences are due to rounding to first decimal place.
f Other is comprised of Algeria, Pakistan, Trinidad and Tobago, and the United Kingdom.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 67 2 Information on the Company continued 2.13.1 Petroleum reserves continued 2.13.2 Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves Proved undeveloped reserves The statement of Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves including Coal Resources and Coal Reserves presented in this Annual Report At 30 June 2013, Petroleum had 1,072 MMboe of proved has been produced in accordance with the Australian Securities undeveloped reserves, as compared to 1,363 MMboe at 30 June Exchange ASX Listing Rules Chapter 5 and the Australasian Code 2012.
The successful completion of development activities and for Reporting of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore commissioning of both the North Rankin B compression platform Reserves, December 2012 the JORC Code.
Mineral Resources and and the Macedon gas project on the North West Shelf in Australia Ore Reserves reported as at 30 June 2012 for properties that were converted approximately 242 MMboe of proved undeveloped to divested prior to 30 June 2013 were prepared and disclosed under developed reserves and was the primary reason for the reduction the JORC Code 2004.
The information has not been updated since from FY2012.
to comply with the JORC Code 2012 on the basis that the properties Proved undeveloped reserves were removed from Mad Dog have been divested.
Commodity prices and exchange rates used Phase 2 as previously noted.
The 343 MMboe of proved undeveloped to estimate the economic viability of reserves are based on reserves in the conventional fields are located in large offshore asset-defined or BHP Billiton long-term forecasts.
These reserves require significant capital expenditures tabulated are held within existing, permitted mining tenements.
and multi-year lead times before initial production can be achieved.
The Groups mineral leases are of sufficient duration or convey Based on the current project schedule, 99 per cent of the 1,072 MMboe a legal right to renew for sufficient duration to enable all reserves currently classified as undeveloped is in currently producing fields or on the leased properties to be mined in accordance with current fields being actively pursued, which are scheduled to start producing production schedules.
Our Ore Reserves may include areas where within the next five years.
In currently producing fields, the proved some additional approvals remain outstanding, but where, based undeveloped reserves will be developed and brought on stream on the technical investigations we carry out as part of our planning in a phased manner to best optimise the use of production facilities process, and our knowledge and experience of the approvals and to meet long-term gas supply contracts.
process, we expect that such approvals will be obtained as part of the normal course of business and within the time frame required The majority of proved undeveloped reserves at 30 June 2013 were in the North American shale fields, accounting for 729 MMboe.
In these fields, approximately half of this volume is in the Eagle Ford The information in this Annual Report relating to Mineral Resources area, which is where we are increasing the focus of our drilling to and Ore Reserves is based on information compiled by Competent develop and produce higher value, liquids-rich gas.
Management Persons as defined in the JORC Code.
All Competent Persons have, plans anticipate drilling all of these proved undeveloped reserves at the time of reporting, sufficient experience relevant to the style in the North American shale fields in the next five years.
None of of mineralisation and type of deposit under consideration and to the these proved undeveloped reserves will be more than five years activity they are undertaking to qualify as a Competent Person as old at the time they are drilled.
At the reporting date, each Competent Petroleum has an established track record of progressing large Person listed in this Annual Report is a full-time employee of proved undeveloped reserves to developed, as evidenced by the BHP Billiton or a company in which BHP Billiton has a controlling conversion of 301 MMboe to developed in FY2013.
Over the past interest or has joint control, unless otherwise noted.
Each Competent three years the conversion of proved undeveloped to developed Person consents to the inclusion in this Annual Report of the has averaged 153 MMboe per year.
This is twice the average matters based on their information in the form and context in conversion rate reported in FY2012.
During FY2013, Petroleum which it appears.
spent US$7.2 billion progressing development of undeveloped All of the Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve figures presented reserves worldwide.
are reported in 100 per cent terms and represent estimates at 30 June 2013 unless otherwise stated.
All tonnes are reported as dry metric tonnes unless otherwise stated.
All tonnes and grade information has been rounded, hence small differences may be present in the totals.
All of the Mineral Resource information is inclusive of Mineral Resources that have been converted to Ore Reserves i. e. Mineral Resources are not additional to Ore Reserves.
The information contained herein differs in certain respects from that reported to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, which is prepared with reference to the SECs Industry Guide 7.
BHP Billiton applies governance arrangements and internal controls to verify the estimates and estimation process for Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves: these include: standard company procedures for public reporting aligned with current regulatory requirements: independent audits of new and materially changed estimates: annual reconciliation performance metrics to validate reserves estimates for operating mines: internal technical audits of resources and reserves estimates for each asset conducted every two years.
Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are presented in the accompanying tables.
68 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Competent Persons Copper Business Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business Mineral Resources Mineral Resources Escondida, Pampa Escondida and Pinta Verde: L Soto MAusIMM, Worsley: D Djotaroeno MAusIMM M Cortes MAusIMM both employed by Minera Escondida Limitada MRN: R Aglinskas MAusIMM, employed by Minerao Rio do Norte Chimborazo: R Turner MAusIMM, employed by Golder Associates GAC Project: P Schultz MAusIMM, employed by Probe Mining Cerro Colorado and Spence: M Tapia MAusIMM GEMCO: D Hope MAusIMM Pinto Valley and Pinto Valley Miami unit: J Cespedes MAusIMM Wessels and Mamatwan: E P Ferreira SACNASP Olympic Dam: S OConnell MAusIMM Beniomi and Bordeaux: E P W Swindell SACNASP Antamina: L Canchis MAusIMM, employed by Minera Antamina SA Cerro Matoso: C Rodriguez MAusIMM Cannington: A J Edwards MAusIMM Leinster and Cliffs: M Menicheli MAusIMM, P Soodishoar MAusIMM Mt Keith and Yakabindie: M Menicheli MAusIMM, R Otadoy MAusIMM Ore Reserves Jericho: R Otadoy MAusIMM Escondida: A Zuzunaga MAusIMM, employed by Minera Escondida Limitada Venus: M Menicheli MAusIMM Cerro Colorado and Spence: J Carvajal MAusIMM Ore Reserves Pinto Valley: B Baird MAusIMM Olympic Dam: D Grant FAusIMM Worsley: G Burnham MAusIMM Antamina: M Maulen MAusIMM, employed by Minera Antamina SA MRN: J P fide Melo Franco MAusIMM, employed by Minerao Rio do Norte Cannington: M Dowdell MAusIMM GEMCO: M Bryant MAusIMM, employed by Bryant Mining Pty Ltd Wessels and Mamatwan: D Mathebula SAIMM Cerro Matoso: F Fuentes MAusIMM Iron Ore Business Leinster: D Bhardwaj MAusIMM, M Gray MAusIMM Mineral Resources Mt Keith: D Bhardwaj MAusIMM, S Church MAusIMM WAIO: P Whitehouse MAusIMM Cliffs: D Bhardwaj MAusIMM, A Torres MAusIMM Mt Newman JV: M Lowry MAusIMM, M Smith MAusIMM, J Ridley MAusIMM Jimblebar: M Lowry MAusIMM, M Smith MAusIMM Petroleum and Potash Business Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern: P Whitehouse MAusIMM Mineral Resources Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C: J Ridley MAusIMM, M Smith MAusIMM, D Stephens MAIG Jansen: J McElroy MAusIMM, B Nemeth MAusIMM Yandi JV: P Whitehouse MAusIMM EKATI Core Zone: R Woodward NAPEG, employed by Dominion Diamond BHP Billiton Iron Ore Exploration: D Stephens MAIG, P Whitehouse MAusIMM, Corporation, S Harrison MAusIMM M Smith MAusIMM EKATI Buffer Zone: S Harrison MAusIMM Samarco JV: L Bonfioli MAusIMM, J P da Silva MAusIMM, L Goncalves fide Richards Bay Minerals: J Nel SACNASP, employed by Richards Bay Minerals Rezende MAusIMM all employed by Samarco Minerao SA Ore Reserves Ore Reserves EKATI Core Zone: N Barros MAusIMM WAIO: T Cockerill MAusIMM Richards Bay Minerals: C Ware SACNASP, employed by Richards Bay Minerals Mt Newman JV: T Cockerill MAusIMM, A Neville MAusIMM Jimblebar: A Neville MAusIMM Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern: B Hall MAusIMM Mt Goldsworthy JV Area C: T Cockerill MAusIMM Yandi JV: B Hall MAusIMM Samarco JV: L Goncalves fide Rezende MAusIMM, J P da Silva MAusIMM, D Nunes MAusIMM all employed by Samarco Minerao SA Coal Business Mineral Resources Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow, Saraji, Red Hill and Saraji East: S Martinez MAusIMM Peak Downs and Peak Downs East: J Centofanti MAusIMM Norwich Park: G Lawson MAusIMM Blackwater, Daunia, Gregory Crinum and Liskeard: R Macpherson MAIG South Walker Creek, Poitrel-Winchester, Nebo West and Bee Creek: P Handley MAusIMM Wards Well: S Groenland MAusIMM Appin, West Cliff, Dendrobium and Cordeaux: H Kaag MAusIMM Haju, Luon, Bumbun and Juloi Northwest: D Broome MAIG, employed by JB Mining Services Pty Ltd Lampunut: N Ikhsan MAusIMM San Juan: D Rawson Soc.
MME SME regd Navajo: K Bahe Soc.
MME SME regd Khutala: G Gemmell SACNASP, J H Marais GSSA Wolvekrans and Middelburg: L Visser SACNASP, J H Marais GSSA Klipspruit: P Maseko SACNASP, J H Marais GSSA Leandra North, Naudesbank, Weltevreden and Leandra South: N Haniff SACNASP, J H Marais GSSA Theunissen, T-Project, Davel and Remainder Block IV: J H Marais GSSA Mt Arthur Coal: P Wakeling MAusIMM Togara South and Cerrejn: D Lawrence SACNASP, self employed Ore Reserves Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow: D Patzel MAusIMM, J Hanson MAusIMM Peak Downs: S fide la Cruz MAusIMM Blackwater: P Gupta MAusIMM Saraji, Norwich Park and Daunia: G Clarete MAusIMM Gregory Crinum: J Field MAusIMM, N Bordia MAusIMM South Walker Creek and Poitrel-Winchester: D Storey MAusIMM Appin, West Cliff and Dendrobium: M Rose MAusIMM San Juan: D Rawson Soc.
Concentrator V COG mine plans optimised considering financial and technical parameters in order to maximise Net Present Value.
cost factors and includes metallurgical recovery Mineralisation at the US$0 hr limit averages 0.25%Cu, 7g tAg, see footnote 10 for averages.
Mineralisation 53ppmMo and 5,720t hr mill throughput.
at the US$6,000 hr limit averages 0.24%Cu, 6g tAg, 69ppmMo and 5,800t hr mill throughput.
Net value cut-off incorporating all material revenue and cost factors Net value incorporating all material revenue and Sulphide Cu-Zn and includes metallurgical recovery see footnote 10 for averages.
cost factors and includes metallurgical recovery Mineralisation at the US$0 hr limit averages 0.10%Cu, 0.79%Zn, see footnote 10 for averages.
Mineralisation 8g tAg and 5,500t hr mill throughput.
at the US$6,000 hr limit averages 0.09%Cu, 0.93%Zn, 9g tAg and 5,430t hr mill throughput.
Cannington OC Sulphide Net value incorporating material revenue and cost factors and includes metallurgical recovery see footnote 10 for averages.
Mineralisation at A$45 t averages 19g tAg, 0.60%Pb and 0.86%Zn.
UG Sulphide Net value incorporating material revenue and cost factors and Net value cut-off incorporating material revenue and includes metallurgical recovery see footnote 10 for averages.
cost factors and includes metallurgical recovery see Mineralisation at A$90 t averages 42g tAg, 1.05%Pb and 1.85%Zn.
Mineralisation at A$145 t averages 79g tAg, 3.54%Pb and 2.85%Zn.
Antamina and Cannington Mineral Resources: All metals used in net value calculations for the Antamina and Cannington Mineral Resources are recovered into concentrate and sold.
2 Pampa Escondida The increase in Mineral Resources was due to the inclusion of 120,000m of additional drill hole data in the resource model.
3 Pinta Verde The increase in Mineral Resources was mostly due to a revised resource estimate that included 42,000m additional drill hole data and additional testwork that provided increased confidence in metallurgical recovery assumptions for low solubility oxide material.
4 Cerro Colorado The decrease in Mineral Resources was due to revised economic assumptions.
5 Pinto Valley Mining resumed in November 2012.
The increase in Mineral Resources was due to revised economic assumptions and mining geometries.
Pinto Valley is being divested, with the transaction completion anticipated in FY2014.
6 Antamina Mineral Resources increased due to an updated resource model with additional drilling, interpretation and revised economic assumptions.
7 Antamina Mo now reported as ppm, previously reported as %.
Deposit Metallurgical Recovery 12 Spence The increase in Ore Reserves was due to a combination of additional Escondida Oxide: 68% drilling information and the addition of mixed Sulphide and Oxide ores and Oxide Low Solubility ores previously considered waste.
Sulphide: 83% 13 Cannington The increase in Ore Reserves was primarily due to increased Sulphide Leach: 29% confidence in the resource estimate to Measured and Indicated categories Cerro Colorado 71% average for TCu which allowed for conversion of Mineral Resources to Ore Reserves.
Wet tonnes are reported for Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO deposits and Samarco JV, including moisture contents: BKM Brockman 3%, MM Marra Mamba 4%, CID Channel Iron Deposits 8%, NIM Nimingarra 3.5%, Samarco JV 6.5%.
2 A single cut-off value was applied per deposit: however, cut-offs range from 5057%Fe across the WAIO resource inventory.
The cut-off grade applied by Samarco JV was 22%Fe.
3 WAIO Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves are reported in FY2013 on a Pilbara basis by ore type to align with our future strategy for a Pilbara lump product.
This also reflects our single logistics chain and associated management system and our equalisation of joint venture equity refer footnote 15.
4 WAIO BHP Billiton interest is reported as Pilbara Mineral Resource tonnes weighted average across all Joint Ventures and BHP Billiton Iron Ore Exploration.
5 BKM Resource increase was due to infill drilling and revised resource models for Orebody 13, Orebody 17, Orebody 18, Orebody 24, Orebody 31, Orebody 41, Wheelarra 4, Packsaddle 1 and Marillana.
8 The Ore Reserve grades listed refer to in situ mass percentage on a dry weight basis.
WAIO tonnages represent wet tonnes based on the following moisture contents: BKM 3%, BKM Bene 3%, MM 4%, CID 8%, NIM 3.5%.
For Samarco JV, the Ore Reserve tonnages also represent wet tonnes based on a moisture content of 6.5% for ROM.
Iron ore is marketed as Lump direct blast furnace feed and Fines sinter plant feed WAIO and as Fines sinter plant feed, direct reduction and blast furnace pellets Samarco JV.
9 Cut-off grades: WAIO 5058%Fe for all material types: Samarco JV Fe 22%, Pc 0.097% phosphorous in concentrate and PPCc 7.7% LOI in concentrate.
10 Ore delivered to process plant.
11 WAIO Ore Reserves are all located on State Agreement mining leases that guarantee the right to mine, except Cattle Gorge and Callawa part of Mt Goldsworthy JV Northern, which reside on standard Western Australian mining leases.
Across WAIO, we are required to obtain certain State Government approvals including environmental and heritage clearances before we commence mining operations in a particular area.
We have included in our Ore Reserves areas where one or more approvals remain outstanding, but where, based on the technical investigations we carry out as part of our mine planning process and our knowledge and experience of the approvals process, we expect that such approvals will be obtained as part of the normal course of business and within the time frame required by the current mine schedule.
12 WAIO Decrease in Reserve Life was due to an increase in nominated production from 170Mtpa in FY2012 to 207Mtpa in FY2013.
13 WAIO Decrease in BKM Bene reserves was due to a revision of economic assumptions used in the mine planning process.
14 WAIO Ore Reserves tonnage increase was due to a revision of economic assumptions used in the mine planning process.
15 Jimblebar JV Following completion of the ITOCHU and Mitsui transaction in July 2013, whereby ITOCHU and Mitsui have agreed to increase capital contributions to the project, BHP Billitons economic interest in the Jimblebar JV was reduced to 85%.
16 Samarco JV Increase in Ore Reserves was due to a model update incorporating additional drilling and a lower cut-off grade.
product on an air-dried basis.
The coal quality for Illawarra Coal is for in situ 4 South Walker Creek Increase in Coal Resources was due to additional quality on an air-dried basis.
Tonnages are at an in situ moisture basis.
drilling and an updated model.
2 The cut-off criteria used were: CQCA JV, Gregory JV, BHP Billiton Mitsui Open 5 Bumbun Increase in Coal Resources was due to additional drilling and Cut mines deposits 0.5m seam thickness: BHP Billiton Mitsui Underground an updated model.
deposits 2.0m seam thickness: Peak Downs East and Saraji East 2.0m 6 Juloi Northwest Increase in Coal Resources was due to additional drilling seam thickness: Liskeard 0.7m seam thickness at depths 60m and 1.5m and an updated model.
seam thickness at depths 60m: Lampunut and Luon 0.3m seam thickness: Illawarra Coal no seam thickness cut-off because the minimum thickness is economic: Haju, Bumbun and Juloi Northwest 0.3m seam thickness at depths 12:1bcm t overburden ratio.
Drill hole spacings vary between seams and geological domains and were determined in conjunction with geostatistical analyses where applicable.
Total Marketable Coal Reserves tonnes Deposit Processing Recovery are the tonnage of coal available, at moisture content 9% CQCA JV, Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow 76% Gregory JV, BHP Billiton Mitsui, Appin, West Cliff: 13.5% Dendrobium Met: 7% Dendrobium Th and air-dried quality, for sale after the beneficiation Peak Downs Peak Downs: 62% of the Total Coal Reserves.
Note that where the coal will not be beneficiated, Caval Ridge: 56% the tonnes of Total Coal Reserves are the tonnes of Total Marketable Coal Reserves, with moisture adjustment where applicable.
Saraji 63% 10 The cut-off criteria applied were: Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow, Peak Norwich Park 71% Downs, Norwich Park, Blackwater and South Walker Creek 0.5m seam thickness: Daunia, Gregory Crinum and Poitrel-Winchester 0.3m seam Blackwater 88% thickness: Saraji 0.3m seam thickness and 20% yield: Appin, West Cliff, Daunia 80% Dendrobium 1.8m seam thickness.
11 Coal delivered to wash plant.
Gregory Crinum 82% 12 Goonyella Riverside Broadmeadow The decrease in Reserve Life was South Walker Creek 72% due to an increased nominated production rate from 21Mtpa in FY2012 to 23Mtpa in FY2013.
Poitrel-Winchester 67% 13 Daunia The increase in Reserve Life was due to a decrease in nominated Appin 84% production rate from 5.6Mtpa in FY2012 to 4.5Mtpa in FY2013.
14 Gregory Crinum Decrease in Coal Reserves was due to revised West Cliff 75% economic parameters.
Dendrobium 67% 15 South Walker Creek A new geological model incorporating additional structural and analytical data resulted in processing recovery being reduced from 75% in FY2012 to 72% in FY2013.
The decrease in Coal Reserves was due to the processing recovery downgrade and economic factors.
16 Poitrel-Winchester A new geological model incorporating additional structural and analytical data resulted in processing recovery being reduced from 74% in FY2012 to 67% in FY2013.
17 Appin Increase in Coal Reserves was due to the inclusion of an additional mining domain that is contiguous with the current operations and is covered by an existing mining tenement.
The decrease in Reserve Life was due to an increase in nominated production rate from 3.9Mtpa in FY2012 to 6.1Mtpa in FY2013.
18 West Cliff Decrease in Coal Reserves was due to exclusion of a thin low quality seam.
19 Dendrobium Decrease in Reserve Life was due to an increased nominated production rate from 3.2Mtpa in FY2012 to 5Mtpa in FY2013.
Qualities are reported on an air-dried 4 South Africa, South Africa Projects, South Africa Miscellaneous BHP Billiton uncontaminated basis.
interest has decreased from 100% to 90% in FY2013 due to the divestment 2 Cut-off criteria: San Juan 3.0m seam thickness, 5,000KCal kg CV: of 8% shareholding in BHP Billiton Energy Coal South Africa BECSA to a Black Navajo 0.3m seam thickness: Khutala 1.0m seam thickness for OC, Economic Empowerment consortium and 2% shareholding to BECSA employees 2.5m seam thickness for UG, 45% ash and 24% dry ash-free volatile through a share ownership plan.
matter: Wolvekrans and Middelburg 1.0m seam thickness, 45% ash, 5 Khutala The increase in Coal Resources was due to an updated resource 17.9% volatile matter: Klipspruit 1.0m seam thickness, 4,300KCal kg model incorporating additional drilling, remnant pillars and a reduced CV: Leandra North and Leandra South 1.8m seam thickness: Naudesbank minimum seam thickness.
varying 0.5m to 0.8m seam thickness, 45% ash, 22% dry ash-free volatile 6 Klipspruit The decrease in Coal Resources and improved resource confidence matter: Weltevreden 0.8m seam thickness, 45% ash: T-Project 1.8m seam was due to additional drilling and remodelling.
thickness, 18% volatile matter: Davel 1.2m seam thickness, 18% volatile 7 Weltevreden The decrease in Coal Resources and improved resource matter: Remainder Block IV varying 1.2m to 1.8m seam thickness, 18% confidence was due to additional drilling and remodelling.
volatile matter: Mt Arthur Coal 0.3m seam thickness: Togara South 1.5m 8 Theunissen Divestment completed in January 2013. seam thickness: Cerrejn 0.65m seam thickness.
9 T-Project Divestment is in progress, with transaction completion anticipated 3 Navajo Divestment is in progress, with binding agreements anticipated in FY2014.
10 Togara South A revision of the geological model to include the faulted boreholes resulted in a decrease in the Coal Resource and improved resource confidence.
The project remains on care and maintenance, with no further exploration seismic work planned.
Deposit Processing Recovery 15 Total moisture is for Total Marketable Coal Reserves product.
San Juan 100% 16 San Juan and Navajo Coal Reserves were reduced to align with current sales contracts.
Navajo 100% 17 Khutala The decrease in Marketable Coal Reserves was due to application Khutala 93% of a crusher recovery factor.
18 Wolvekrans The decrease in Coal Reserves and Marketable Coal Reserves Wolvekrans 65% was due to additional drilling and remodelling, revised extraction factors for Middelburg 65% remaining underground pillar reserves on some coal seams and the exclusion of devolatilised coal.
Klipspruit 87% 19 Middelburg The decrease in Coal Reserves and Marketable Coal Reserves Mt Arthur Coal 70% was due to a lower ash cut-off 58% reduced to 45% as a result of economic constraints, the exclusion of environmentally sensitive areas and losses due Cerrejn 97% to devolatilised coal.
13 Cut-off criteria: San Juan 3.0m seam thickness, 5,000KCal kg CV: Navajo 20 Klipspruit The decrease in Coal Reserves was due to additional drilling 0.6m seam thickness: Khutala 1.0m seam thickness for OC and 3.8m and remodelling.
Devolatilised coal was also excluded around a major seam thickness for UG: Wolvekrans, Middelburg 1.0m seam thickness, intrusive dyke.
45% ash, 17.9% dry ash-free volatile matter: Klipspruit 1.0m seam 21 Mt Arthur Coal The increase in Marketable Coal Reserves was due to thickness, 45% ash: Mt Arthur Coal 0.3m mineable seam thickness, an increase in total moisture content, inclusion of an additional pit in the 26.5% ash, 50% product yield: Cerrejn 0.65m seam thickness.
Life of Asset Plan and increased product yield assumptions.
The decrease in Reserve Life was due to an increase in the nominated production rate from 23.5Mtpa in FY2012 to 26Mtpa in FY2013.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 83 2 Information on the Company continued Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business Aluminium Mineral Resources As at 30 June 2013 As at 30 June 2012 Measured Resources Indicated Resources Inferred Resources Total Resources BHP Billiton Total Resources Commodity Interest 1 Deposit Ore Type Mt %A.
SiO2: MRN 50%TAI O, 10%TSiO, 1m thickness 2 3 2 and 30% recovery on a weight per cent basis: GAC Project: 35%TAI O and 10%TSiO.
2 2 3 2 MRN MRN Washed tonnes and grade represent expected product based on forecast beneficiated yield.
This resource is reported with dilution.
3 GAC Project Divestment transaction completed in July 2013.
4 Ore delivered to process plant.
5 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves were: Deposit Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Worsley Maximum 80m Maximum 160m MRN A bauxite intersection grid of 200m, plus at least ten samples Those areas with a bauxite intersection grid spacing of less reached by search ellipsoid.
Mining and metallurgical than 400m and or a 400m spaced grid with a 200m offset fill in, characterisation test pit bulk sample, plus a reliable suite plus a minimum of seven samples reached by search ellipsoid, of chemical and size distribution data.
plus a reliable suite of chemical and size distribution data.
6 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations were: Deposit Estimated Metallurgical Recovery of A. Al O 2 3 Worsley Worsley Refinery 88% MRN Alumar Refinery 92% 7 MRN The MRN reserves are located on mining leases that provide MRN the right to mine.
Current mining areas have environmental approval to operate: however, there was a decrease in reserves due to an increase in the environmental buffer zone from 10m to 30m.
As further operational licences are obtained, Mineral Resources will be converted to Ore Reserves.
84 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business Aluminium Mineral Resources As at 30 June 2013 As at 30 June 2012 Measured Resources Indicated Resources Inferred Resources Total Resources BHP Billiton Total Resources Commodity Interest 1 Deposit Ore Type Mt %A.
2 GEMCO Mineral Resource ROM and Sands tonnes are stated as in situ, Ore Reserve tonnes are stated as ROM.
Manganese grades are given as per washed ore samples and should be read together with their respective tonnage yields.
Sands tonnes and manganese grade are reported as in situ.
3 GEMCO The increase in resources was due to conversion of Exploration Targets to Mineral Resource as a result of additional drilling.
The improved resource confidence from Inferred to Indicated was due to inclusion of additional drilling information 532 holes to produce a revised GEMCO resource estimate.
4 Wessels and Mamatwan Tonnes are stated as wet tonnes.
5 Divestment of Beniomi and Bordeaux was completed in April 2013.
6 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the reserves were: Deposit Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves GEMCO 60m x 120m and 60m x 60m 120m x 120m Wessels Defined as rim 30m wide around mined-out areas, Defined as all ground beyond 30m supplemented by some economically viable remnant blocks within mined-out areas Mamatwan 80m x 80m 160m x 160m 7 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations were: Deposit Metallurgical Recovery GEMCO See yield in Ore Reserves table Wessels 88% Mamatwan 96% 8 Ore delivered to process plant.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 87 2 Information on the Company continued Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business Nickel Mineral Resources As at 30 June 2013 As at 30 June 2012 Measured Resources Indicated Resources Inferred Resources Total Resources BHP Billiton Total Resources Commodity Interest 1 Deposit Ore Type Mt %Ni Mt %Ni Mt %Ni Mt %Ni % Mt %Ni Nickel Colombia Cerro Matoso Laterite 49 1.2 186 0.9 90 0.8 325 0.9 99.94 319 0.9 SP 48 1.2 48 1.2 43 1.2 MNR Ore 18 0.2 18 0.2 19 0.2 Australia Nickel West Operations 2 Leinster OC 3.8 1.4 1.8 1.3 1.4 1.2 7.0 1.4 100 7.0 1.4 Disseminated Sulphide 67 0.5 106 0.5 173 0.5 OC Disseminated 173 0.52 UG 9.0 2.3 6.5 2.5 3.5 2.3 19 2.4 21 2.4 SP 1.5 1.1 1.5 1.1 1.4 1.0 SP Oxidised 1.9 1.7 1.9 1.7 1.9 1.7 3 Mt Keith OC 100 307 0.52 Disseminated Sulphide 179 0.5 107 0.5 35 0.5 321 0.5 SP 20 0.5 20 0.5 28 0.52 4 UG 100 6.2 2.6 Cliffs Disseminated Sulphide 3.2 1.2 3.2 1.2 Massive Sulphide 0.6 4.5 1.3 3.8 1.1 3.9 3.0 4.0 Australia Nickel West Projects 3 OC 100 439 0.61 Yakabindie Disseminated Sulphide 156 0.6 113 0.6 171 0.6 439 0.6 OC 50 28 0.58 Jericho Disseminated Sulphide 28 0.6 28 0.6 Venus Disseminated Sulphide 2.5 1.9 2.5 1.9 100 Massive Sulphide 1.5 6.0 1.5 6.0 Nickel Ore Reserves As at 30 June 2013 As at 30 June 2012 Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves Reserve BHP Billiton Total Ore Reserves Reserve Commodity Life Interest Life 1 4 5 6 7 Deposit Ore Type Mt %Ni Mt %Ni Mt %Ni years % Mt %Ni years Nickel Colombia 1 8 9 Cerro Matoso Laterite 25 1.4 18 1.0 43 1.2 28 99.94 57 1.2 32 SP 40 1.2 40 1.2 34 1.2 MNR Ore 18 0.2 18 0.2 19 0.2 Australia Nickel West Operations Leinster OC 2.9 1.3 0.2 0.9 3.1 1.3 8 100 3.1 1.3 8 UG 5.1 1.9 4.2 1.8 9.3 1.8 10 1.8 SP 0.1 2.3 0.1 2.3 10 Mt Keith OC 87 0.6 6.0 0.5 93 0.6 12 100 99 0.56 13 SP 11 0.5 9.0 0.5 20 0.5 28 0.52 Cliffs UG 0.4 3.0 1.2 2.7 1.6 2.8 4 100 1.5 3.1 3 88 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business 1 Cut-off grades: Deposit Ore Type Mineral Resources Ore Reserves Cerro Matoso All 0.6%Ni 0.8%Ni Leinster OC 0.6%Ni 0.6%Ni Disseminated Sulphide 0.4%Ni UG 1%Ni 0.9%Ni SP 0.7%Ni 0.9%Ni Mt Keith Disseminated Sulphide, 0.35%Ni 0.35%Ni OC, SP Cliffs Disseminated Sulphide 0.4%Ni Massive Sulphide Stratigraphic UG 1.1%Ni Venus Disseminated Sulphide Stratigraphic Massive Sulphide Yakabindie Disseminated Sulphide 0.4%Ni Jericho Disseminated Sulphide 0.4%Ni 2 Leinster The ore type previously reported as OC Disseminated is now reported as Disseminated Sulphide to reflect the style of mineralisation.
3 Mt Keith, Yakabindie and Jericho The ore type previously reported as OC is now reported as Disseminated Sulphide to reflect the style of mineralisation.
4 Cliffs The ore type previously reported as UG is now reported as Disseminated Sulphide and Massive Sulphide to reflect the styles of mineralisation.
5 Approximate drill hole spacings used to classify the Reserves were: Deposit Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Cerro Matoso 35m or less with three drill holes 35m to 100m with three drill holes Leinster 25m x 25m 25m x 50m Mt Keith 60m x 40m 80m x 80m Cliffs 25m x 25m and development 50m x 50m 6 Metallurgical recoveries for the operations were: Deposit Metallurgical Recovery Cerro Matoso 84% reserves to metal Leinster 86% based on blended plant recovery curves and 13%Ni in concentrate Mt Keith 65% at 21% concentrate grade Cliffs 92% at 11% concentrate grade 7 Ore delivered to process plant.
8 Cerro Matoso Environmental Licence approval required for the mine expansion project has been delayed, but is expected to be granted.
Approval of both the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment and Mining Work Program Plan is an administrative exercise and forms part of the normal course of business.
9 Cerro Matoso The decrease in laterite reserves was due to revised metallurgical parameters, revised economic parameters and an updated geotechnical model.
10 Mt Keith The decrease in Ore Reserves was due to the revision of mining recovery and revised recoveries for long-term stockpiles.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 89 2 Information on the Company continued Petroleum and Potash Business Mineral Resources As at 30 June 2013 As at 30 June 2012 Measured Resources Indicated Resources Inferred Resources Total Resources Total Resources BHP Billiton Commodity Ore Interest Deposit Type Mt Mt Mt Mt % Mt Potash 1 2 Jansen LPL 5,328 25.7 7.1 0.07 1,288 25.7 7.1 0.07 6,616 25.7 7.1 0.07 100 3,451 25.7 7.0 0.08 Diamonds Mt cpt Mt cpt Mt cpt Mt cpt Mt cpt 3 EKATI Core Zone OC 45 0.9 SP 6.9 0.2 UG 34 0.4 3 EKATI Buffer Zone OC 47 2.0 Mineral Sands Mt Mt Mt Mt Mt Richards Bay TiO 26 2 4 Minerals slag Ore Reserves As at 30 June 2013 As at 30 June 2012 Proved Ore Reserves Probable Ore Reserves Total Ore Reserves Reserve BHP Billiton Total Ore Reserves Reserve Commodity Ore Life Interest Life Deposit Type Mt cpt Mt cpt Mt cpt years % Mt cpt years Diamonds 3 EKATI Core Zone OC 13 1.2 3 SP 0.2 0.3 UG 4.2 0.6 Mineral Sands Mt Mt Mt Mt Richards Bay TiO 23 23 2 4 Minerals slag 1 Jansen Significant private mineral rights have been acquired and added to the Resources estimate.
A reclassification from Indicated Resources to Measured Resources has occurred due to an improved estimation methodology.
%MgO is used as a measure of carnallite KCl.
6H O content where per cent carnallite 2 2 equivalent %MgO x 6.3918.
However, in the above statement the main source of the stated %MgO is the soluble portion of the dolomitic clay seams.
The Mineral Resources are stated for the Lower Patience Lake LPL potash unit.
2 A stratigraphic cut-off based on clay seams has been applied.
3 EKATI Core Zone and EKATI Buffer Zone Divestment was completed in April 2013.
4 Divestment of Richards Bay Minerals was completed in September 2012.
90 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 %K O 2 %Insol.
%MgO 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3 Operating and financial review and prospects 3.1 Introduction This section is intended to convey managements perspective on the BHP Billiton Groups recent operational and financial performance.
We intend this disclosure to assist readers to understand and interpret the financial statements prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS included in this Annual Report.
The basis of preparation of the financial statements is set out in note 1 Accounting policies to the financial statements.
The Operating and financial review and prospects should be read in conjunction with the financial statements, together with the accompanying notes.
We are the worlds largest diversified natural resources company, with a combined market capitalisation of approximately US$147.1 billion as at 30 June 2013.
We generated Revenue of US$66.0 billion and Profit attributable to shareholders of US$10.9 billion for FY2013.
We extract and process minerals, oil and gas from our production operations located primarily in Australia, the Americas and southern Africa.
We sell our products globally with sales and marketing taking place principally through our hubs in Singapore and Houston.
The following table shows the revenue by location of our customers.
Revenue by location of customer 2013 2012 2011 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Australia 4,583 5,318 5,487 United Kingdom 1,651 956 1,043 Rest of Europe 6,317 7,419 8,370 China 19,365 21,617 20,261 Japan 7,783 8,920 9,002 Rest of Asia 13,642 15,035 15,805 North America 8,417 8,099 6,167 South America 1,782 2,013 2,592 Southern Africa 1,316 1,437 1,548 Rest of world 1,112 1,412 1,464 Total revenue 65,968 72,226 71,739 During FY2013, we implemented a new organisational structure, removing a layer of management to create a more direct line of communication with our operations.
We consolidated and renamed our previous Customer Sector Groups CSGs into five Businesses.
We now operate these five Businesses aligned with the commodities that we extract and market, reflecting the structure used by management to assess the performance of the Group.
The Group completed the following organisational changes during FY2013: Following the sale of our diamonds business and interests in Richards Bay Minerals, we consolidated our Potash development activity with the Petroleum CSG to form the Petroleum and Potash Business.
In view of the new management structure, this Business is now considered to be a single reportable segment.
There were no inter-segment transactions between the Petroleum CSG and Potash business, and therefore the comparative amounts reported for the new Petroleum and Potash segment for FY2012 and FY2011 are an aggregation of Petroleum and Potash.
The remaining amounts reported previously for the Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG have been included in Group and unallocated items.
The Base Metals CSG was renamed the Copper Business.
We consolidated the Metallurgical Coal and Energy Coal CSGs to form the Coal Business.
There were no inter-segment transactions between the Metallurgical Coal and Energy Coal CSGs, and therefore the comparative amounts reported for the new Coal segment for FY2012 and FY2011 are an aggregation of previously reported amounts.
We consolidated the Aluminium, Manganese and Stainless Steel Materials CSGs to form the Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business.
There were no inter-segment transactions between the Stainless Steel Materials, Aluminium and Manganese CSGs, and therefore the comparative amounts reported for the new Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel segment for FY2012 and FY2011 are an aggregation of previously reported amounts.
Business Principal activities Petroleum and Potash Exploration, development and production of oil and gas Potash development Copper Mining of copper, silver, lead, zinc, molybdenum, uranium and gold Iron Ore Mining of iron ore Coal Mining of metallurgical coal and energy thermal coal Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Mining of bauxite, refining of bauxite into alumina and smelting of alumina into aluminium metal Mining of manganese ore and production of manganese metal and alloys Mining and production of nickel products The work of our Businesses is supported by our Group Functions and Marketing teams.
A discussion of our Businesses is located in section 2.2 Business overview.
A discussion of our Marketing and minerals exploration activities is located in sections 2.4 Marketing and 2.5 Minerals exploration, respectively.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 91 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.2 Our strategy Our strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography and market.
Further information about our strategic drivers can be found in section 1.5 Our strategy and business model and in section 3.4 External factors and trends affecting our results below.
3.3 Key measures Our management and Board monitor a range of financial and operational performance indicators, reported on a monthly basis, to measure performance over time.
Overall financial performance We use several financial measures to monitor the financial performance of our overall strategy.
The two key measures are Profit after taxation attributable to members of the BHP Billiton Group Attributable profit and Underlying EBIT.
Year ended 30 June US$M except where stated 2013 2012 2011 Revenue 65,968 72,226 71,739 Profit from operations 19,225 23,752 31,816 Attributable profit 10,876 15,417 23,648 1 2 Underlying EBIT 21,127 27,238 31,980 3 Net operating cash flow 18,252 24,384 30,080 2 4 Underlying EBIT margin 33.2% 39.4% 47.0% 2 5 Underlying return on capital 13.5% 23.0% 38.5% Gearing 28.8% 26.0% 9.2% Basic earnings per share US cents 204.4 289.6 429.1 1 Underlying EBIT is earnings before net finance costs, taxation and any exceptional items.
Underlying EBIT is included in the FY2013 financial statements as required by IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Our use of Underlying EBIT is explained in section 3.6.
2 Not an IFRS measure and may be defined and used in differing ways by different entities.
We believe that these non-IFRS measures provide useful information, but should not be considered as an indication of or alternative to an IFRS measure of profitability, financial performance or liquidity.
Non-IFRS measures have not been subject to audit or review.
3 Net operating cash flows are after net interest and taxation.
4 Underlying EBIT margin comprises Underlying EBIT, excluding third party EBIT, divided by revenue, excluding third party product revenue.
2013 2012 2011 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Revenue Group production 63,203 68,747 67,903 2 Underlying EBIT 21,127 27,238 31,980 Profit from operations EBIT Third party products 121 126 98 Profit from operations Group production, excluding exceptional items 21,006 27,112 31,882 2 Underlying EBIT margin 33.2% 39.4% 47.0% 5 Underlying return on capital represents net profit after tax, excluding exceptional items and net finance costs after tax, divided by average capital employed.
Capital employed is net assets plus net debt.
2013 2012 2011 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Profit after taxation excluding exceptional items and net finance costs: Profit after taxation 11,075 15,532 23,946 Net exceptional items after taxation 922 1,741 1,964 2 Profit after taxation excluding exceptional items 11,997 17,273 21,982 Net finance costs 1,353 730 561 a Income tax benefit of net finance costs 402 239 153 Net finance costs after taxation 951 491 408 2 Profit after taxation excluding exceptional items and net finance costs 12,948 17,764 22,390 Capital employed: Net assets 72,035 67,085 57,755 b Net debt 29,105 23,607 5,823 Capital employed 101,140 90,692 63,578 Average capital employed 95,916 77,135 58,108 2 Underlying return on capital 13.5% 23.0% 38.5% a Calculated at a nominal tax rate of 30 per cent adjusted for non-deductibility assessability of exchange variations on net debt of US$13 million 2012: US$ 65 million: 2011: US$51 million.
Refer to note 6 Net finance costs to the financial statements.
b Net debt comprising Interest bearing liabilities less Cash and cash equivalents at 30 June 2013 includes Cash and cash equivalents of US$ nil 2012: US$120 million: 2011: US$ nil and Interest bearing liabilities of US$ nil 2012: US$178 million: 2011: US$ nil included in assets and liabilities held for sale.
92 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.3 Key measures continued The following are other measures that assist us to monitor our overall performance.
Production A summary of our actual production volumes for FY2013 and the previous two financial years is shown below.
Further details appear in section 2.3 Production.
Year ended 30 June 2013 2012 2011 Total Petroleum production millions of barrels of oil equivalent 235.8 222.3 159.4 Copper 000 tonnes 1,209.4 1,094.5 1,139.4 Iron ore 000 tonnes 169,856 159,478 134,406 Metallurgical coal 000 tonnes 37,650 33,230 32,678 Energy coal 000 tonnes 72,892 71,111 69,500 Alumina 000 tonnes 4,880 4,152 4,010 Aluminium 000 tonnes 1,179 1,153 1,246 Manganese ores 000 tonnes 8,517 7,931 7,093 Manganese alloys 000 tonnes 608 602 753 Nickel 000 tonnes 154.1 157.9 152.7 Financial strength Financial strength is measured by Attributable profit and Underlying EBIT as overall measures, along with measures of liquidity and capital management.
Our credit rating, gearing and net debt are discussed in section 3.7.
The final dividend declared for FY2013 maintains our progressive dividend policy.
Project pipeline Our project pipeline focuses on commodities that are expected to be high-margin and create significant future value.
The details of our project pipeline are located in sections 3.7.
2 and 2.2 Business overview, with a summary presented below.
1 Year ended 30 June 2013 2012 2011 Major projects Number of projects approved during the year 1 8 11 Number of projects currently under development approved in prior years 17 12 7 2 Number of completed projects 2 6 3 Budgeted capital expenditure for projects approved in the year US$M 520 7,468 12,942 Budgeted capital expenditure for projects under development approved in prior years US$M 20,663 15,323 11,575 Capital expenditure of completed projects US$M 1,388 9,160 1,202 1 Does not include major projects approved after 30 June 2013, including the Escondida desalination facility and expenditure on the Jansen Potash Project refer to section 3.7.
2 Includes Bass Strait Kipper project, which is not yet in production pending completion of the mercury removal project.
3.4 External factors and trends affecting our results The following section describes some of the external factors and trends that have had a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.
We operate our business in a dynamic and changing environment and with information that is rarely complete and exact.
We primarily manage the risks discussed in this section under our portfolio risk management approach, which relies on the effects of diversification, rather than individual risk management programs.
Details of our risk factors may be found in section 1.7.
Details of our financial risk management strategies and financial instruments outstanding at 30 June 2013 may be found in section 1.7.
3 Management of principal risks and in note 29 Financial risk management to the financial statements.
Management monitors particular trends arising from external factors with a view to managing the potential impact on our future financial condition and results of operations.
The following external factors could have a material adverse effect on our business and areas where we make decisions on the basis of information that is incomplete or uncertain.
1 Commodity prices The prices we obtain for our products is a key driver of our business, and fluctuations in these commodity prices affect our results, including cash flows and asset values.
The estimated impact on FY2013 profit after taxation of changes of commodity prices is set out below.
US$M US$1 bbl on oil price 47 US10 MMBtu on US gas price 32 US1 lb on copper price 19 US$1 t on iron ore price 113 US$1 t on metallurgical coal price 24 US$1 t on energy coal price 27 US1 lb on aluminium price 26 US10 dmtu on manganese ore price 21 US$1 t on manganese alloy price 1 US1 lb on nickel price 2 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 93 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.4.
1 Commodity prices continued The following table shows prices of our most significant commodities for FY2013, FY2012 and FY2011.
These prices represent selected quoted prices from the relevant sources as indicated.
These prices differ from the realised prices on the sale of the Groups production due to differences in quotational periods, quality of products, delivery terms and the range of quoted prices that are used for contracting sales in different markets.
2 Platts Gas based on Henry Hub typically applies to gas sales in the US gas market.
3 Platts Liquefied Natural Gas Delivery Ex-Ship DES Japan Korea Marker typically applies to Asian LNG spot sales.
4 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Ethane typically applies to ethane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
5 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Propane typically applies to propane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
6 OPIS Mont Belvieu non-Tet Normal Butane typically applies to butane sales in the US Gulf Coast market.
7 Platts 62 per cent Fe Cost and Freight CFR China used for fines.
8 Platts Low-Vol hard coking coal Index FOB Australia representative of high-quality hard coking coals.
9 GlobalCoal FOB Newcastle 6,000 kcal kg NCV typically applies to coal sales in the Asia Pacific market.
10 2013 and 2012 Platts PAX Free on Board FOB Australia market price assessment of calcined Metallurgical Smelter Grade Alumina.
11 Bulk FerroAlloy high-carbon ferromanganese HCFeMn US ex-warehouse.
12 CRU Cost Insurance Freight CIF China import 43 per cent contained manganese.
During FY2013, commodity markets were impacted by a slower pace Natural gas liquids: A barrel of natural gas liquids consists mainly of growth in China that was balanced in part by increased stability of ethane and liquefied petroleum gas propane and butane.
in European sovereign debt markets and an improved private sector The Mont Belvieu ethane price decreased by 19 per cent in performance in the United States.
In the case of most steelmaking FY2013 due to increases in supply, while Mont Belvieu propane raw materials, demand growth rates outside China decreased, and prices increased by three per cent due to increased exports.
combined with robust supply growth from seaborne sources, resulted Mont Belvieu butane prices decreased by three per cent due in lower raw material prices than the previous year.
The metals to lower gasoline demand.
commodities attracted lower prices than the previous year as a Copper: The London Metal Exchange LME copper cash settlement result of supply growing faster than demand.
For energy commodities, price decreased by 11 per cent during FY2013 driven by supply geopolitical tensions and United States economic improvements growing faster than demand.
Copper mine production recovered provided price support for crude oil, while the US gas prices increased strongly in FY2013 from a constrained level, which was caused by due to increased seasonal demand in the residential and commercial disruptions in FY2012.
Consumption remained flat during the first sector and decreased storage inventories from the previous year.
half of FY2013, but increased in the second half as Chinese end-use The following summarises the pricing trends, based on the year-end demand increased by seven per cent.
prices, of our most significant commodities for FY2013.
Iron ore: The Platts 62 per cent iron ore CFR China price decreased Crude oil: The Platts Dated Brent crude price increased by eight by 14 per cent during FY2013 due to increased iron ore seaborne per cent during FY2013, driven by Chinese demand growth in supply and inventory destocking at Chinese steel mills.
Prices the first half of the year followed by moderate improvements in fluctuated between US$88.5 per dry metric tonne dmt and macroeconomics in the United States in the second half.
Middle East US$160 dmt, as movements in iron ore inventories caused volatility.
political tensions provided price support, which offset negative Seaborne imports to China increased, as Australian supply growth drivers, including ongoing Eurozone concerns and a two per cent more than offset the decrease in Brazilian and Indian exports.
increase in US crude oil inventories.
Global demand for iron ore was primarily driven by Chinas record pig iron production, which recovered strongly in the second half Gas: The Platts US Henry Hub natural gas price increased by of the financial year, after a seasonal decrease in the first half.
The Henry Hub price increase was driven by increased seasonal demand in the residential and commercial Metallurgical coal: The Platts Low-Vol hard coking coal Index sector in the United States.
The Asian liquefied natural gas spot decreased by 41 per cent during FY2013, driven by decreased growth price increased by three per cent during FY2013.
This increase was rates of global pig iron production.
Pig iron production decreased supported by sustained demand from Japan to replace suspended in Europe, which historically accounts for a large share of hard nuclear capacity and growth in emerging Asian markets and coking coal import demand.
Supply increased during the year, Latin America.
particularly from Australia and Canada.
94 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.4.
3 Changes in product demand and supply Energy coal: The Global Coal Newcastle FOB price decreased by Global demand and supply for the commodities we produce is a key 12 per cent during FY2013.
Seaborne demand growth was driven driver of commodity prices, and fluctuations in product demand and by China and India, where volumes reached all-time record levels.
supply affect our results, including cash flows and asset values.
Prices decreased as Indonesian, Australian and US exports Economic conditions over the second half of FY2013 were affected increased simultaneously.
by lower than expected growth in emerging economies.
Weaker Aluminium: The LME aluminium cash settlement price decreased trade and soft manufacturing activity pulled growth rates slightly by six per cent during FY2013.
Demand growth slowed, while below expectations in China.
However, with employment conditions simultaneously new supply continued to be added, which and income growth remaining resilient, the Chinese Government contributed to an increasing market surplus.
During this period, has room to pursue reforms that support its agenda of stable, LME stocks reached record levels, driven by the attractiveness long-term growth.
of warehouse financing deals to investors.
Significant cuts in government spending affected growth in the Alumina: The Platts FOB Australia price increased by four per cent United States: however, this was offset by improved private sector during FY2013, with price support coming from increasing demand demand, leading to modest rates of economic growth overall.
and supply disruptions during the year.
The market remained Housing and stock market prices have also strengthened household balanced, with refinery production continuing to grow in China.
balance sheets over the past year.
As a result, we believe the recovery will continue, although risks remain regarding the unwinding of Manganese: The CRU China ore import price increased by monetary policy stimulus.
Rising ore prices in the second half of FY2013 were supported by record Chinese steel output, while The renewed policy push in Japan is also positive for medium-term supply from South Africa, Australia and Gabon increased to meet growth expectations if the government can achieve its stated the higher demand.
The US spot high-carbon ferromanganese alloy objectives.
Europe remained relatively stable during the period: price decreased 15 per cent during FY2013.
Declining alloy prices however, we do not anticipate a strong or rapid recovery while were driven by oversupply in a weak export market due to lower fundamental structural problems remain.
steel production in the developed economies of Europe and the Overall, we expect more balanced global growth over the long term United States.
as China continues to develop its economy and large developed Nickel: The LME cash settlement nickel price decreased by economies, such as the United States, grow despite fiscal challenges.
Demand for nickel continued to grow, We expect the rebalancing of the Chinese economy to be significant but at a lower rate compared with the previous year.
The price in terms of the nature of domestic demand, as well as the types of decreased as a result of the demand growth being outpaced by goods and services the economy will produce.
These changes will increasing supply tonnages, coming mainly from Chinese nickel take place gradually, particularly in relation to savings behaviour pig iron, as well as new production from greenfield projects.
and levels of fixed asset investment.
We also see India and South East Asia as significant sources of economic growth in the long term.
2 Exchange rates Prices responded to changes in the underlying fundamentals of We are exposed to exchange rate transaction risk on foreign several major commodities during FY2013.
Increased demand in currency sales and purchases, as we believe that active currency the United States supported natural gas markets, while record steel hedging does not provide long-term benefits to our shareholders.
production rates in Asia underpinned strong demand for steelmaking Because a majority of our sales are denominated in US dollars, and raw materials.
However, supply of iron ore, metallurgical coal and the US dollar plays a dominant role in our business, we borrow and copper more than kept pace with increased demand, leading to hold surplus cash predominantly in US dollars to provide a natural a reduction in prices over the period.
Operating costs and costs of locally sourced equipment are influenced by fluctuations in local currencies, primarily the In the short term, increased supply is expected to exert downward Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Chilean peso and South African pressure on prices, although a lower rate of investment growth rand.
Foreign exchange gains and losses reflected in operating across the industry should, in time, lead to more balanced supply costs owing to fluctuations in the local currencies relative to the and demand.
The growth rates for steel demand in Asia are expected US dollar may potentially offset one another.
Volatility increased to moderate, as the Chinese economy gradually rebalances.
This during the year, with a strengthening of the US dollar in the last rebalancing should support growth in demand for other industrial quarter of FY2013.
Overall the Australian dollar, Brazilian real and metals, energy and agricultural products.
South African rand ended the financial year weaker against the We expect overcapacity in the aluminium and nickel industries to US dollar, while the Chilean peso strengthened.
persist, while robust near-term supply in copper and US domestic We are also exposed to exchange rate translation risk in relation gas should, over time, give way to market conditions more influenced to net monetary liabilities, being our foreign currency denominated by resource decline.
monetary assets and liabilities, including debt and other long-term liabilities.
Details of our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations are contained within note 29 Financial risk management to the financial statements.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 95 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.4.
4 Operating costs As the prices for our products are determined by the global commodity markets in which we operate, we do not generally have the ability to offset cost pressures through corresponding price increases: therefore, controlling our operating costs is a key driver of our results.
Operating costs for the last three years are set out below.
2013 2012 2011 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Raw materials and consumables used 9,445 8,483 8,148 Employee benefits expense 7,432 6,663 5,299 1 External services including transportation 12,849 14,716 11,705 Third party commodity purchases 2,642 3,381 3,758 Net foreign exchange gains losses 280 519 1,241 Fair value change on derivatives 79 143 104 Government royalties paid and payable 2,679 3,051 2,887 Depreciation and amortisation expense 6,945 6,408 5,039 Exploration and evaluation expenditure 1,022 1,602 981 2 Impairment of assets 5,595 3,763 74 Operating lease rentals 754 635 451 3 Other operating expenses 1,711 1,340 975 Total expenses 50,873 49,380 40,454 Less exceptional items 5,222 3,786 164 Total expenses excluding exceptional items 45,651 45,594 40,290 1 Includes exceptional items of US$96 million 2012: US$ nil: 2011: US$314 million.
2 Includes exceptional items of US$5,284 million 2012: US$3,663 million: 2011: US$ nil.
3 Includes exceptional items of US$158 million relating to the decrease in the rehabilitation obligations in respect of former operations at the Newcastle steelworks 2012: US$ nil: 2011: US$150 million.
We focus on operating costs excluding exceptional items because they represent a component of Underlying EBIT.
Our operating costs excluding exceptional items have increased at an average rate of 10.7 per cent per annum over the past three years.
During FY2013, total operating costs excluding exceptional items have remained stable, as reductions in various costs were offset by higher non-cash costs and one-off items.
Our focus on curtailing operating costs was demonstrated by a decrease of external services costs of US$1.9 billion, a decrease of third party commodity purchases of US$739 million, reduced government royalties of US$372 million and a reduction of exploration and evaluation expenditure of US$580 million.
These savings were predominantly offset by higher impairment charges of US$1.8 billion, higher depreciation and amortisation charges of US$537 million, lower foreign exchange gains of US$239 million and an unfavourable variance in fair value change on derivatives of US$222 million.
96 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.4.
5 Capital expenditure Capital and exploration expenditure are both important in pursuing our strategy.
Capital and exploration expenditure is disclosed for each Business in the table below presented on an accruals basis.
2013 2012 2011 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M 1 Capital and exploration expenditure Petroleum and Potash 8,494 7,865 2,828 Copper 2,366 2,980 1,670 Iron Ore 6,472 5,921 3,777 Coal 3,929 3,875 2,026 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel 815 1,862 2,342 Group and unallocated items 132 172 207 BHP Billiton Group 22,208 22,675 12,850 1 Capital and exploration expenditure includes accrued capital expenditure and excludes capitalised interest.
Exploration expenditure is capitalised in accordance with our accounting policies, as set out in note 1 Accounting policies in the financial statements.
All other exploration expenditure is expensed in the period.
Capital expenditure encompasses expenditure on major projects, as set out in section 3.7.
2, and capital expenditure on sustaining and other items.
2013 2012 2011 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Capital expenditure Growth 18,401 17,735 9,366 Sustaining and other 2,481 2,488 2,244 Total 20,882 20,223 11,610 Exploration expenditure Petroleum 675 1,355 557 Minerals 651 1,097 683 Total 1,326 2,452 1,240 Total capital and exploration expenditure 22,208 22,675 12,850 Deferred stripping 538 782 469 Total capital and exploration expenditure excluding deferred stripping 21,670 21,893 12,381 Our capital and exploration expenditure increased significantly from FY2011 to FY2012, growing 76.5 per cent from US$12.9 billion to US$22.7 billion.
This reflected increased investment in our project pipeline, particularly in Petroleum, Iron Ore, Coal and Copper.
In FY2013, we focused on controlling capital and exploration expenditure.
Total capital expenditure increased by US$659 million from FY2012 to US$20.9 billion in FY2013, whereas exploration expenditure decreased by US$1.1 billion to US$1.3 billion.
Increases in capital expenditure, primarily in Onshore US increase of US$1.5 billion and Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO increase of US$509 million outweighed decreases, primarily in Copper and Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel.
Exploration expenditure decreased across all Businesses, with the largest decrease of US$811 million in Petroleum and Potash.
No major growth projects and only one major project were approved during FY2013.
At the end of FY2013, we had 18 major projects in execution, of which approximately 70 per cent were expected to deliver first production by the end of the CY2014.
A detailed discussion of our project pipeline including projects approved after 30 June 2013 is located in section 3.7.
We expect our capital and exploration expenditure for FY2014, excluding deferred stripping, to be approximately US$16.2 billion.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 97 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.4.
6 Exploration and development of resources Exploration expense represents that portion of exploration expenditure that is not capitalised in accordance with our accounting policies, as set out in note 1 Accounting policies to the financial statements.
Exploration expense for each Business over the three-year period is set out below.
2013 2012 2011 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M 1 Exploration expense Petroleum and Potash 709 1,038 543 Copper 246 324 266 Iron Ore 74 135 60 Coal 42 174 93 Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel 53 68 77 Group and unallocated items 7 15 BHP Billiton Group 1,124 1,746 1,054 1 Includes US$102 million 2012: US$144 million, 2011: US$73 million exploration expense previously capitalised, written off as impaired.
Exploration expense increased significantly between FY2011 3.4.
8 Health, safety, environment and community and FY2012, growing by US$692 million from US$1,054 million to We are subject to extensive regulation surrounding the health US$1,746 million reflecting increased exploration for oil, gas and and safety of our people and the environment.
Petroleum exploration was focused on offshore Western effort to comply with the regulations and, where less stringent Australia, the Gulf of Mexico, South East Asia and our Onshore than our standards, we aim to exceed applicable legal and other US Asset.
Minerals exploration was focused on greenfield copper requirements.
However, regulatory standards and community targets in South America and iron ore and potash targets globally.
As a result, we may be exposed to increased litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen In FY2013, the quality, scale and diversification of our existing assets environmental rehabilitation expenses, despite our best efforts have allowed us to substantially reduce our exploration.
Total to work with governments, community groups and scientists exploration expense declined by 36 per cent to US$1.1 billion in to keep pace with regulations, law and public expectations.
FY2013, with a sharpened focus on greenfield copper porphyry targets in Chile and Peru, and oil and gas prospects in the Gulf Further information about our compliance with HSEC regulations of Mexico and offshore Western Australia.
can be found in section 2.8 Sustainability.
We expect exploration expenditure for FY2014 to be approximately 3.4.
9 Insurance US$1.0 billion, of which approximately US$600 million is expected During FY2013, we maintained an insurance program encompassing to be for offshore oil and gas, and the balance related primarily property damage, business interruption, sabotage and terrorism, to exploration for copper.
marine cargo, construction, directors and officers liability and public and certain other liabilities.
7 Interest rates a combination of self-insurance via subsidiary captive insurance We are exposed to interest rate risk on our outstanding borrowings companies, industry mutuals and external market reinsurance.
Our policy on interest rate exposure is for interest Mandates are established as to risk retention levels, policy cover on our borrowings to be on a US dollar floating interest rate basis.
and, where applicable, reinsurance counter parties.
As part of Deviation from our policy requires the prior approval of our Financial our portfolio risk management approach, we regularly conduct Risk Management Committee and is managed within our Cash Flow an assessment of maximum foreseeable loss potential, cash flow at Risk CFaR framework, which is described in note 29 Financial at risk, loss experience, claims received and insurance premiums risk management to the financial statements.
When required under paid, and will make adjustments to the balance of self-insurance this strategy, we use interest rate swaps, including cross currency and reinsurance as required.
interest rate swaps, to convert a fixed rate exposure to a floating rate exposure, as well as using swaptions to manage the fixed interest The Group is largely self-insured for losses arising from property rate exposure.
As at 30 June 2013, the Group held US$5.4 billion damage and business interruption, sabotage and terrorism, marine 2012: US$4.3 billion of centrally managed fixed interest rate cargo, construction and primary public liability.
For these risks, borrowings, as well as US$4.4 billion 2012: US$4.0 billion of we internally insure our operations for wholly owned assets and other fixed interest rate borrowings, that have not been swapped for our share of joint venture assets via our captive insurance to floating interest rates, primarily arising from debt raised during companies.
Any losses incurred will consequently impact the FY2012 and FY2013, debt assumed as part of the acquisition financial statements as they arise.
of Petrohawk and debt raised prior to the DLC merger.
Our earnings are sensitive to changes in interest rates on the floating interest rate component of the Groups net borrowings.
Based on the net debt position as at 30 June 2013, taking into account interest rate swaps, cross currency interest rate swaps and swaptions, it is estimated that a one percentage point increase in the US LIBOR interest rate will decrease the Groups equity and profit after taxation by US$136 million 2012: decrease of US$103 million.
This assumes that the change in interest rates is effective from the beginning of the financial year and the fixed floating mix and balances are constant over the year.
However, interest rates and the net debt profile of the Group may not remain constant over the coming financial year and, therefore, such sensitivity analysis should be used with care.
98 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.5 Application of critical accounting policies The preparation of our financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported revenue and expenses during the periods presented therein.
On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgements in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, revenue and expenses.
Management bases its estimates and judgements on historical experience and on various other factors it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions.
We have identified the following critical accounting policies under which significant judgements, estimates and assumptions are made and where actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect financial results or the financial position reported in future periods: reserve estimates: exploration and evaluation expenditure: development expenditure: property, plant and equipment and intangible assets recoverable amount: defined benefit pension schemes: provision for closure and rehabilitation: taxation.
In accordance with IFRS, we are required to include information regarding the nature of the estimates and judgements and potential impacts on our financial results or financial position in the financial statements.
This information can be found in note 1 Accounting policies to the financial statements.
3.6 Operating results The following tables provide a summary of Revenue and Underlying EBIT for FY2013 and the two prior corresponding periods of our Businesses and the Group.
2 Includes the Groups diamonds business divested effective 10 April 2013, interest in titanium minerals divested effective 3 September 2012, non-Potash corporate costs incurred by the former Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG, consolidation adjustments, unallocated items and external sales of freight and fuel via the Groups transport and logistics operations.
3 Underlying EBIT is earnings before net finance costs, taxation and any exceptional items and includes the sale of third party product.
Underlying EBIT is not an IFRS measure of profitability, financial performance or liquidity and may be defined and used in differing ways by different entities.
We believe that Underlying EBIT provides useful information, but should not be considered as an indication of, or alternative to, Attributable profit as an indicator of operating performance.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 99 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
1 Consolidated results Net operating cash flow of US$18.3 billion declined by 25.1 per cent from US$24.4 billion in FY2012: however, despite the challenging Year ended 30 June 2013 compared with year ended 30 June 2012 environment, the Groups Underlying EBIT margin remained in excess Revenue in FY2013 was US$66.0 billion, a decrease of US$6.2 billion, of 30 per cent, while Underlying return on capital was 13.5 per cent, or 8.7 per cent, from US$72.2 billion in the corresponding period.
The revenue decrease was primarily driven by the Iron Ore and Coal Businesses, with decreases of US$2.4 billion and US$2.9 billion, Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 respectively, and the loss of revenue due to the sale of assets In FY2012, revenue was US$72.2 billion, an increase of US$487 million, previously reported in the former Diamonds and Specialty Products or 0.7 per cent, from US$71.7 billion in the corresponding period.
CSG, which represented a reduction of US$879 million.
The revenue increases of US$2.2 billion in both our Petroleum and Potash, and Iron Ore Businesses were partially offset by decreases The decrease in revenue in Iron Ore was primarily due to lower in other Businesses, in particular our Copper and Aluminium, realised prices of US$4.1 billion, partially offset by higher sales Manganese and Nickel Businesses of US$2.6 billion and volumes of US$1.4 billion.
The revenue decrease in Coal also US$1.6 billion, respectively.
reflected lower realised prices of US$3.7 billion, partially offset by higher sales volumes of US$416 million.
The increase in revenue in Iron Ore related primarily to higher sales volumes of US$3.4 billion, offset by lower realised prices of Underlying EBIT in FY2013 declined by 22.4 per cent, or US$6.1 billion, US$1.2 billion.
Revenue increases in Petroleum and Potash related to US$21.1 billion.
A substantial reduction in commodity prices primarily to US$2.2 billion of revenue in Onshore US for FY2012, an reduced Underlying EBIT by US$8.9 billion, which more than increase of US$2.1 billion from FY2011.
The impact of higher realised offset the significant US$2.7 billion reduction in controllable cash prices in Petroleums conventional primarily offshore operations costs achieved during the period.
Consistently strong operating was largely offset by lower sales volumes.
performance across the Group contributed to a US$1.8 billion volume related increase in Underlying EBIT.
The revenue decrease in Copper reflected lower sales volumes of US$861 million and lower realised prices of US$1.5 billion.
Controllable cash cost is not an IFRS measure and is used internally The decrease in revenue in Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel by management to measure performance, in line with our increasing of US$1.6 billion was primarily due to lower realised prices.
focus on controlling our costs commencing in FY2013.
The variance in controllable cash costs comprises changes in costs rate and Further description on the changes in revenue is included in the usage, exploration and business development activity including analysis of Underlying EBIT for the Group in section 3.6.
2 and for capitalised exploration costs but excludes variances in non-cash the Businesses in section 3.6.
6. and one-off items, price-linked costs and fuel and energy costs.
Our Attributable profit of US$15.4 billion in FY2012 represented The reduction in controllable cash costs included US$1,470 million a decrease of 34.8 per cent from US$23.6 billion in the related to exploration and business development costs which corresponding period.
included a decrease in exploration expenditure capitalised of US$546 million and US$1,273 million in relation to other operating Attributable profit in FY2012 included a number of exceptional costs.
A reconciliation of changes in controllable cash costs to the items: an impairment of the Fayetteville United States dry gas changes in Underlying EBIT is set out in section 3.6.
2. assets acquired from Chesapeake Energy in March 2011 of US$1.8 billion US$2.8 billion before tax : an impairment of the Further description of the changes in revenue is included in the Nickel West Australia assets of US$355 million US$449 million analysis of Underlying EBIT for the Group in section 3.6.
2 and before tax and a US$342 million US$452 million before tax charge for the Businesses in section 3.6.
6. for the suspension or early closure of operations and the change Attributable profit excluding exceptional items comprising Profit in status of specific projects, which included an impairment of the after taxation attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group less Olympic Dam Project of US$242 million US$346 million before tax.
exceptional items as described in section 3.6.
5 of US$11.8 billion Other exceptional items included the settlement of insurance claims was negatively affected by an increase in the Groups effective at Queensland Coal Australia which resulted in other income of tax rate from 34.8 per cent to 39.3 per cent excluding exceptional US$199 million US$284 million before tax, while a US$637 million items and financing charges of US$280 million incurred managing non-cash income tax credit was recognised following the passage interest rate exposure on recently issued debt securities.
Exceptional of Australias Minerals Resource Rent Tax MRRT and Petroleum items of US$922 million after tax contributed to the 29.5 per cent Resource Rent Tax PRRT extension into legislation in March 2012. decrease in Attributable profit to US$10.9 billion.
Attributable profit excluding exceptional items of US$17.1 billion Exceptional items during FY2013 included a gain on sale of our wholly represented a decrease of 21.1 per cent from US$21.7 billion in owned Yeelirrie uranium deposit of US$420 million after tax expense, FY2011.
The US$4.6 billion decrease in Attributable profit excluding a gain on sale of our interest in Richards Bay Minerals of US$1.2 billion exceptional items primarily reflects the decrease in Underlying EBIT after tax expense and a gain on sale of our 8.33 per cent interest of US$4.8 billion.
in the East Browse Joint Venture and 20 per cent interest in the West Browse Joint Venture of US$1.4 billion after tax expense.
The decrease in Underlying EBIT from the prior year is a result of weaknesses in the price of, and demand for, commodities and These gains were offset by an impairment charge of US$1.2 billion industry-wide cost pressure.
The rate of cost escalation was most after tax benefit at Nickel West, an impairment charge of severe in those Businesses that experienced disruptions, outages US$1.6 billion after tax benefit at Worsley, an impairment charge or grade-related issues.
The increased revenue for Onshore US, from of US$167 million after tax benefit of assets in the Permian Basin US$107 million in FY2011 to US$2.2 billion in FY2012, did not result United States, an impairment charge of US$237 million after tax in additional EBIT due to the impact of lower realised gas prices expense arising from the sale of our interests in the EKATI Diamond in the United States.
Mine and an impairment charge and other restructuring costs of US$715 million after tax benefit arising from the capital project Net operating cash flow of US$24.4 billion declined by 18.9 per cent, review.
Finally, the Group recognised a decrease of US$158 million while Underlying return on capital was 23.0 per cent.
The value of before tax expense to its rehabilitation obligations in respect the Groups diversified strategy was reflected in the Groups of former operations at the Newcastle steelworks Australia.
Underlying EBIT margin, which remained at a robust 39.4 per cent.
100 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT In discussing the operating results of the Group, we focus on a financial measure we refer to as Underlying EBIT.
Underlying EBIT is the key measure that management uses internally to assess the performance of our Businesses, make decisions on the allocation of resources and assess operational management.
Management uses this measure because financing structures and tax regimes differ across our assets and substantial components of our tax and interest charges are levied at a Group rather than an operational level.
We exclude exceptional items from Underlying EBIT in order to enhance the comparability of the measure from period to period and provide clarity into the underlying performance of our operations.
Our management monitors exceptional items separately.
The following table reconciles Underlying EBIT to Profit from operations.
2013 2012 2011 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Underlying EBIT 21,127 27,238 31,980 Exceptional items before taxation refer section 3.6.
5 1,902 3,486 164 Profit from operations EBIT 19,225 23,752 31,816 The following table describes the approximate impact of the principal factors that affected Underlying EBIT for FY2013 and FY2012.
2013 2012 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M Underlying EBIT as reported in the prior year 27,238 31,980 Change in volumes: Increase in volumes 2,057 2,529 Decrease in volumes 266 2,221 1,791 308 Net price impact: Change in sales prices 8,895 2,213 Price-linked costs 649 253 8,246 1,960 Change in costs: Costs rate and usage 546 3,138 Exchange rates 390 820 Inflation on costs 650 764 286 3,082 Asset sales 66 78 Ceased and sold operations 847 347 New and acquired operations 112 86 Exploration and business development 938 819 Other 145 472 Underlying EBIT 21,127 27,238 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 101 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT continued The method of calculation of the factors that affected Underlying EBIT and the financial statement line items of Revenue, Other income and Expenses excluding net finance costs that are affected by the factors are as follows.
Factor affecting Financial statement Underlying EBIT Method of calculation line item affected Volumes Change in volumes for each operation from the corresponding period to the current period multiplied Revenue and Expenses by prior year Underlying EBIT margin.
Change in sales prices Change in average realised price for each operation from the corresponding period to the current period Revenue multiplied by current period volumes.
Price-linked costs As for change in sales prices.
Expenses Costs rate and usage Change in total costs, other than exchange rates, inflation and those changes included in other categories Expenses below, for each operation from the corresponding period to the current period.
Exchange rates Change in exchange rate multiplied by current period local currency revenue and expenses the majority Revenue and Expenses of the Groups selling prices are denominated in US dollars and so there is little impact of exchange rate changes on Revenue.
Inflation on costs Change in inflation rate applied to expenses, other than depreciation and amortisation, price-linked costs, Expenses exploration and business development expenses, expenses in ceased and sold operations and expenses in new and acquired operations.
Asset sales Profit loss on the sale of assets or operations in the current period minus profit loss on sale in the Other income corresponding period.
Ceased and sold Underlying EBIT for operations that are ceased or sold operations in the current period minus Underlying Revenue, Other income operations EBIT for operations that are ceased or sold in the corresponding period.
and Expenses New and acquired Underlying EBIT for operations that are new or acquired in the current period minus Underlying EBIT for Revenue, Other income operations operations that are new or acquired in the corresponding period.
and Expenses Exploration and Exploration and business development expense in the current period minus exploration and business Expenses business development development expense in the corresponding period.
Other Variances not explained by the above factors.
Expenses The following commentary describes the principal factors outlined Prices in the table above for FY2013 and FY2012.
Substantially lower prices reduced Underlying EBIT by US$8.9 billion in FY2013.
The major contributor to the decline was a 17 per cent Year ended 30 June 2013 compared with year ended 30 June 2012 reduction in the average realised price of iron ore, which reduced Underlying EBIT for FY2013 was US$21.1 billion, compared Underlying EBIT by US$4.1 billion.
The recovery in low-cost supply with US$27.2 billion in the corresponding period, a decrease led to a significant decline in metallurgical coal prices, which, of 22.4 per cent.
together with softer energy coal prices, reduced Underlying EBIT Volumes by a further US$3.7 billion.
Overcapacity in the nickel and aluminium Strong operating performance across the Groups major basins in markets, and concerns of a near-term rebalancing in the copper FY2013 delivered an increase in total production volumes in a number market, also weighed on metals prices and reduced Underlying EBIT of Businesses.
This was underpinned by a thirteenth consecutive by a combined US$1.0 billion.
annual production record at WAIO and a 28 per cent increase in A 17 per cent increase in the average realised price of US natural copper production at Escondida.
This volume growth was supported gas and a four per cent rise in the average realised price of liquefied by a significant recovery in production at Queensland Coal and a natural gas LNG benefited Underlying EBIT during the period: 76 per cent increase in liquids production at our Onshore US Asset.
however, this was largely offset by a four per cent decrease in the This momentum is expected to continue in the medium term.
average realised price of oil.
In this context, stronger sales volumes increased Underlying A reduction in price-linked costs increased Underlying EBIT by EBIT by US$1.8 billion in FY2013.
Increased iron ore, copper and US$649 million during the period and primarily reflected lower metallurgical coal sales were the major contributors and together price-linked royalty charges in our Iron Ore and Metallurgical increased Underlying EBIT by US$2.2 billion.
In contrast, natural Coal Businesses.
field decline at our conventional Australian oil and gas assets contributed to a US$266 million volume related reduction in Petroleums Underlying EBIT.
102 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT continued Asset sales Costs The divestments of Yeelirrie Australia, Richards Bay Minerals South Africa, the East and West Browse Joint Ventures Australia The Groups concentrated effort to reduce operating costs and and our diamonds business were completed during the period.
drive productivity improvements realised tangible results.
The total The gains or losses arising from each sale were reported cost related variance, which excludes exploration and business within exceptional items, and therefore were not included development expenditure, exceptional items, the impacts of in Underlying EBIT.
inflation and exchange rate volatility, increased Underlying EBIT by US$546 million during the period.
The contribution of asset sales to Underlying EBIT declined by US$66 million in FY2013.
The variance was largely attributable The reduction in costs was underpinned by a reduction to a post-closing payment received during FY2012 that of US$1,273 million of controllable operating cash costs.
followed the divestment of our interests in Cascade and Increased labour productivity across the Group, and both a Chinook United States.
change in scope and renegotiation of terms for specific contracts Ceased and sold operations at Queensland Coal, contributed to a US$458 million reduction in controllable cash costs.
A general improvement in the productivity Underlying EBIT from ceased and sold operations declined by US$847 million in FY2013.
The decline largely reflected a reduced of the Groups maintenance activities reduced controllable cash costs by a further US$105 million.
contribution decrease in Underlying EBIT of US$499 million from both Richards Bay Minerals, following the sale of our 37.76 per cent Mining related efficiencies contributed to a US$619 million reduction non-operated effective interest to Rio Tinto, which was completed in controllable cash costs.
This largely reflected productivity gains at on 7 September 2012: and EKATI Canada, following the sale of our Escondida associated with a 12 per cent improvement in concentrator diamonds business to Dominion Diamond Corporation, which was throughput following a major maintenance campaign and a completed on 10 April 2013.
Ceased and sold operations included 24 per cent increase in the ore grade mined during the period.
a further reduction of Underlying EBIT of US$126 million related A number of one-off items offset these savings and reduced to the sale of Pinto Valley mining operation United States and Underlying EBIT by US$568 million, comprising payments associated the associated San Manuel Arizona Railroad Company.
with the finalisation of multi-year collective labour agreements New and acquired operations at each of our South American copper assets, the impairment We classify assets as new and acquired operations until there of project costs associated with the WAIO Tug Harbour and the is a full-year period for comparison.
In FY2012, new and acquired Mad Dog Phase 2 United States projects.
operations comprised the Onshore US Asset Fayetteville acquired A reconciliation of the US$1,273 million reduction of controllable in March 2011 and Petrohawk acquired in August 2011 and HWE operating cash costs to the total cost related variance of Mining acquired in September 2011.
In FY2013, new and acquired US$546 million is presented below: operations comprised the former Petrohawk operations within Onshore US and HWE Mining.
2013 Year ended 30 June US$M New and acquired operations reduced Underlying EBIT by US$112 million in FY2013.
This reflected a further loss on Petrohawk Operating costs variance in Underlying EBIT 546 compared with the corresponding period loss, which included One-off items 568 a one-off gain of US$192 million associated with legacy US gas Increase in fuel and energy costs 114 derivatives.
The increase in revenue in Onshore US from higher Other non-cash items, including depreciation 45 volumes and stronger prices was offset by higher depreciation and the impact of rig termination costs.
A discussion of our Onshore US Total reduction in controllable cash costs Assets results is set out in section 3.6.
6. related to operating costs 1,273 This loss was partially offset by Iron Ore contribution of US$144 million, driven by the favourable contractor mining costs Exchange rates pertaining to the removal of contractor margins included in mining A stronger US dollar against several producer currencies, in particular rates prior to the HWE Mining acquisition.
the South African rand, benefited our cost base during the period and increased Underlying EBIT by US$480 million.
This was partially offset by the revaluation of monetary items in the balance sheet with year-end exchange rates, which reduced Underlying EBIT by US$90 million.
In total, exchange rate volatility increased Underlying EBIT by US$390 million.
Average and closing exchange rates for FY2013 and FY2012 are detailed in note 1 Accounting policies to the financial statements.
Inflation on costs Inflation had an unfavourable impact on all Businesses and reduced Underlying EBIT by US$650 million in FY2013.
This was most notable in Australia and South Africa, which accounted for over 75 per cent of the total variance.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 103 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT continued Prices Exploration and business development Prices for many of BHP Billitons products declined during FY2012 as global economic growth slowed and concerns surrounding the Our increased focus on reducing our cost base in FY2013 and our economic outlook increased.
In total, lower average realised prices confidence in the quality and longevity of our asset base led to a reduced Underlying EBIT by US$2.0 billion in FY2012, net of substantial US$938 million reduction in the Groups exploration and price-linked costs.
The impact was most apparent in our Copper and business development expenditure.
Total exploration expenditure Iron Ore Businesses, where weaker prices reduced Underlying EBIT declined by 46 per cent to US$1.3 billion in FY2013, with a focus on by US$1.6 billion and US$1.3 billion, respectively.
No respite was greenfield copper porphyry targets in Chile and Peru and oil and gas provided for our Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business, prospects in the Gulf of Mexico United States and offshore where lower realised prices reduced Underlying EBIT by a combined Western Australia.
The associated decline in the Groups exploration US$1.2 billion.
expense increased Underlying EBIT by US$594 million.
In Petroleum and Potash, a 19 per cent increase in the average A general reduction in business development expenditure increased realised price of oil and a 29 per cent rise in the average realised Underlying EBIT by a further US$344 million in FY2013, primarily price of liquefied natural gas contributed to a US$1.5 billion increase in Iron Ore for US$102 million and Coal for US$194 million.
In addition, stronger thermal and The sharpened focus on exploration and business development costs metallurgical coal realised prices increased Underlying EBIT by was underpinned by a reduction of US$1,470 million of controllable a combined US$434 million, net of price-linked costs.
exploration and business development cash costs.
Costs A reconciliation of the US$1,470 million reduction in controllable Industry-wide cost pressure resulted in a decline in Underlying EBIT exploration and business development cash costs to the total of US$3.1 billion, particularly in Copper and in Coal, where industrial exploration and business development expenditure cost variance action at Escondida and Queensland Coal created additional of US$938 million is presented below.
2013 Higher costs, excluding the impacts of inflation, exchange rate volatility Year ended 30 June US$M and non-cash items, reduced Underlying EBIT by US$2.7 billion in FY2012.
Labour and contractor cost increases and higher raw Exploration and business development variance material costs accounted for more than half of this increase.
in Underlying EBIT 938 Decrease in exploration expenditure capitalised 546 We were quick to respond to changes in the operating environment and acted decisively by closing energy-intensive silicomanganese Other movements 14 alloy production capacity in South Africa and by temporarily Total reduction in controllable cash costs related closing capacity at TEMCO.
In addition, metallurgical coal to exploration and business development 1,470 production at Norwich Park was suspended following a review of the mines profitability.
Other Non-cash items, which included foreign exchange rate related The largest contributor to a US$145 million increase in Underlying adjustments to the carrying value of inventory and higher EBIT was a non-cash adjustment of our Angostura Trinidad and depreciation associated with the completion of major projects, Tobago Production Sharing Contract.
reduced Underlying EBIT by a further US$435 million in FY2012.
Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 Exchange rates Underlying EBIT for FY2012 was US$27.2 billion, compared The cost related impact of the stronger Australian dollar reduced with US$32.0 billion in the corresponding period, a decrease Underlying EBIT by US$565 million in FY2012.
However, the positive of 14.8 per cent.
restatement of monetary items in the balance sheet that followed Volumes the general strengthening of the US dollar against a basket of currencies at the end of the period resulted in a US$1.1 billion In FY2012, we achieved a twelfth consecutive annual production record at WAIO and record annual production at another nine increase in Underlying EBIT.
In total, exchange rate volatility increased Underlying EBIT by US$820 million.
In aggregate, volumes increased Underlying EBIT by US$308 million in the period.
Average and closing exchange rates for FY2012 and FY2011 are detailed in note 1 Accounting policies to the financial statements.
WAIO shipments rose to a record annualised rate of 179 million tonnes Mt in the June 2012 quarter 100 per cent basis.
Inflation on costs The resultant 23 Mt BHP Billiton share uplift in WAIO shipments Inflationary pressure had an unfavourable impact on all Businesses increased Underlying EBIT by US$2.4 billion in FY2012.
and reduced Underlying EBIT by US$764 million during FY2012.
Downtime at our non-operated facilities in the Gulf of Mexico The pressure was most notable in Australia and South Africa, and the North West Shelf Australia and natural field decline, which accounted for 75 per cent of the total impact.
particularly at Pyrenees Australia, were the major contributors Asset sales to the volume related US$1.1 billion reduction in Underlying EBIT The contribution of asset sales to Underlying EBIT increased for the Petroleum and Potash Business.
The Atlantis and Mad Dog by US$78 million from the corresponding period and primarily both United States facilities resumed production in August 2012. reflected the receipt of a post-closing payment that followed Annual copper production records were set at Antamina and Spence the 2006 divestment of our interests in Cascade and Chinook.
Chile although lower grades and industrial action constrained performance at Escondida.
An overall decline in Copper volumes Ceased and sold operations reduced Underlying EBIT by US$509 million in the period.
A favourable foreign exchange related restatement and partial release of the Newcastle steelworks, Australia, rehabilitation The impact on EBIT arising from the increase in volume relating provision accounted for the majority of the US$347 million to the acquisition of our Onshore US Asset is included under the increase in Underlying EBIT.
heading New and acquired operations.
104 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
2 Consolidated results Underlying EBIT continued 3.6.
4 Taxation expense New and acquired operations Year ended 30 June 2013 compared with year ended 30 June 2012 We classify assets as new and acquired operations until there is Total taxation expense, including royalty-related taxation, a full-year period for comparison.
New and acquired operations exceptional items and exchange rate movements, was US$6.8 billion, reduced Underlying EBIT by US$86 million in FY2012.
Iron Ores representing an effective tax rate of 38.0 per cent 2012: acquisition of the HWE Mining business in Western Australia 32.5 per cent.
increased Underlying EBIT by US$97 million, which was more than Exceptional items decreased taxation expense by US$980 million offset by a decrease in Underlying EBIT for the Onshore US Asset 2012: decrease of US$1.7 billion, predominately due to the of US$183 million being a loss of US$140 million in FY2012 compared income tax benefit on impairments of US$1.4 billion, which with a profit of US$43 million in FY2011.
more than offset the income tax expense associated with The additional revenue of US$2.1 billion for Onshore US in FY2012 divestments of US$376 million, as detailed in section 3.6.
5. did not result in additional EBIT due to the impact of lower realised Excluding exceptional items, the Groups effective tax rate gas prices in the United States.
Exploration and business development Government imposed royalty arrangements calculated by reference to profits are reported as royalty-related taxation.
Royalty-related Exploration expense increased by US$662 million to US$1.7 billion taxation, excluding exceptional items, contributed US$1.2 billion in FY2012.
Within Minerals US$928 million expense, greenfield to taxation expense representing an effective tax rate of 6.0 per cent exploration was focused on copper targets in South America, 2012: US$889 million and 3.4 per cent.
The Minerals Resource nickel and copper targets in Australia, and iron ore and potash Rent Tax MRRT came into effect in Australia on 1 July 2012 and targets globally.
the Group expensed US$454 million of MRRT in FY2013.
This was Petroleum exploration expense was US$818 million and included partially offset by the recognition of deferred tax assets associated a US$144 million impairment of exploration previously capitalised.
with the MRRT, which reduced taxation expense by US$133 million.
Our activities focused on offshore Western Australia, the Gulf of Exchange rate movements increased taxation expense by Mexico, South East Asia and our recently acquired Onshore US Asset.
US$315 million, representing an effective tax rate of 1.6 per cent A general increase in the level of business development expenditure 2012: increase of US$250 million and 0.9 per cent.
reduced Underlying EBIT by a further US$157 million in FY2012.
Excluding the impacts of royalty-related taxation, exceptional Other items and exchange rate movements, taxation expense was The absence of specific provisions and non-cash charges that US$6.3 billion, representing an Underlying effective tax rate were reported in the Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel and of 31.7 per cent 2012: 30.5 per cent.
Underlying effective tax Copper Businesses in FY2011, largely accounted for a rate is not an IFRS measure and comprises total taxation expense US$472 million increase in Underlying EBIT in the period.
excluding royalty-related taxation, exceptional items and exchange rate movements included in taxation expense divided by Profit 3.6.
3 Net finance costs before taxation and exceptional items.
Year ended 30 June 2013 compared with year ended 30 June 2012 Other royalty and excise arrangements, which are not profit Net finance costs increased to US$1.4 billion from US$730 million based, are recognised as operating costs within Profit before in the corresponding period.
This was primarily attributable to an taxation.
These amounted to US$2.7 billion during the period increase in net interest expense on higher net debt and financing 2012: US$3.1 billion.
charges of US$280 million incurred managing interest rate exposure on recently issued debt securities.
The US$280 million was composed Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 of realised fair value losses of US$97 million on non-hedging Total taxation expense, including royalty-related taxation, exceptional derivatives recognised in interest on borrowings and unrealised items and exchange rate movements, was US$7.5 billion, representing fair value losses of US$183 million on similar instruments.
an effective rate of 32.5 per cent 2011: 23.4 per cent.
At 30 June 2013, net debt, comprising interest bearing liabilities Exchange rate movements increased taxation expense by less cash and cash equivalents, was US$29.1 billion, which US$250 million 2011: decrease of US$1.5 billion.
The reduced represented an increase of US$5.5 billion compared with the impact compared with FY2011 was predominantly due to eligible net debt position at 30 June 2012.
Australian entities electing to adopt a US dollar tax functional Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 currency from 1 July 2011.
Net finance costs increased to US$730 million from US$561 million Exceptional items decreased taxation expense by US$1.7 billion in the corresponding period.
This was primarily driven by increased 2011: decrease of US$2.1 billion, predominantly due to the net interest expense on higher net debt, partially offset by exchange recognition of tax benefits of US$1.2 billion arising from the rate variations on net debt.
impairments of goodwill and other assets in relation to the At 30 June 2012, net debt, comprising interest bearing liabilities less Fayetteville shale gas assets, Nickel West and the Olympic Dam cash and cash equivalents, was US$23.6 billion, which represented expansion project, and the recognition of a net income tax benefit an increase of US$17.8 billion compared with the net debt position of US$637 million on enactment of the MRRT and PRRT extension at 30 June 2011. legislation in Australia.
Government imposed royalty arrangements calculated by reference to profits after adjustment for temporary differences are reported as royalty-related taxation.
Royalty-related taxation excluding exceptional items contributed US$889 million to taxation expense, representing an effective tax rate of 3.9 per cent 2011: US$828 million and 2.6 per cent.
Other royalty and excise arrangements that did not have these characteristics are recognised as operating costs within Profit before taxation.
These amounted to US$3.1 billion during the period 2011: US$2.9 billion.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 105 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
5 Exceptional items Year ended 30 June 2013 Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2013 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Sale of Yeelirrie uranium deposit 420 420 Sale of Richards Bay Minerals 1,373 183 1,190 Sale of diamonds business 232 5 237 Sale of East and West Browse Joint Ventures 1,539 188 1,351 Impairment of Nickel West assets 1,698 454 1,244 Impairment of Worsley assets 2,190 559 1,631 Impairment of Permian Basin assets 266 99 167 Other impairments arising from capital project review 1,006 291 715 Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 158 47 111 1,902 980 922 On 27 August 2012, the Group announced the sale of its wholly owned Yeelirrie uranium deposit and the transaction was completed on 19 December 2012.
A gain on sale of US$420 million was recognised in FY2013, while the associated tax expense was offset by the recognition of deferred tax benefits on available tax losses of US$126 million.
On 7 September 2012, the Group announced it had completed the sale of its 37.76 per cent effective interest in Richards Bay Minerals.
A gain on sale of US$1.2 billion after tax expense was recognised in FY2013.
On 13 November 2012, the Group announced the sale of its diamonds business, comprising its interests in the EKATI Diamond Mine and Diamond Marketing operations.
The transaction was completed on 10 April 2013 for an aggregate cash consideration of US$553 million after adjustments.
An impairment charge of US$237 million after tax expense was recognised based on the final consideration.
On 12 December 2012, the Group signed a definitive agreement to sell its 8.33 per cent interest in the East Browse Joint Venture and 20 per cent interest in the West Browse Joint Venture.
A gain on sale of US$1.5 billion was recognised in FY2013.
The associated tax expense of US$462 million was partly offset by the recognition of deferred tax benefits on available tax losses of US$241 million and the derecognition of deferred tax liabilities of US$33 million.
The transaction was completed on 7 June 2013.
As a result of expected continued strength in the Australian dollar and weak nickel prices, the Group recognised an impairment charge of US$1.2 billion after tax benefit at Nickel West in FY2013.
The Group recognised an impairment of assets at Worsley as a result of expected continued strength in the Australian dollar and weak alumina prices.
A total impairment charge of US$1.6 billion after tax benefit was recognised in FY2013.
An impairment charge of US$167 million after tax benefit was recognised as the performance of specific evaluation wells in certain areas of the Permian Basin United States do not support economic development.
In FY2013, WAIO refocused its attention on the capital efficient expansion opportunity that exists within the Port Hedland Inner Harbour, and all early works associated with the Outer Harbour development option were suspended.
This revision to the WAIO development sequence and the change in status of other minor capital projects across the Group resulted in the recognition of impairment charges of US$639 million after tax benefit and other restructuring costs of US$76 million after tax benefit in FY2013, of which US$580 million after tax benefit were related to WAIO.
The Group recognised a decrease of US$158 million before tax expense to its rehabilitation obligations in respect of former operations at the Newcastle steelworks Australia.
This followed the completion of the Hunter River Remediation Project and reaching agreement with the Environment Protection Authority in March 2013 regarding the necessary scope of work to repeal the Environmental Classification at Steel River.
Exceptional items during FY2013 are classified by nature as follows.
Impairment Closure and of goodwill rehabilitation Year ended 30 June 2013 Sale of and other Restructuring provisions US$M assets assets costs released Gross Sale of Yeelirrie uranium deposit 420 420 Sale of Richards Bay Minerals 1,373 1,373 Sale of diamonds business 232 232 Sale of East and West Browse Joint Ventures 1,539 1,539 Impairment of Nickel West assets 1,698 1,698 Impairment of Worsley assets 2,190 2,190 Impairment of Permian Basin assets 266 266 Other impairments arising from capital project review 898 108 1,006 Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 158 158 3,332 5,284 108 158 1,902 Refer to note 3 Exceptional items to the financial statements for more information.
106 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
5 Exceptional items continued Year ended 30 June 2012 Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2012 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Impairment of Fayetteville goodwill and other assets 2,835 996 1,839 Impairment of Nickel West goodwill and other assets 449 94 355 1 Suspension or early closure of operations and the change in status of specific projects 502 108 394 1 Settlement of insurance claims 300 90 210 Recognition of deferred tax assets on enactment of MRRT and PRRT extension legislation in Australia 637 637 3,486 1,745 1,741 1 Includes amounts attributable to non-controlling interests of US$ 34 million US$7 million tax expense.
As a result of the fall in United States domestic gas prices and the Companys decision to adjust its development plans, the Group recognised impairments of goodwill and other assets in relation to its Fayetteville shale gas assets.
A total impairment charge of US$1.8 billion after tax benefit was recognised in FY2012.
The Group recognised impairments of goodwill and other assets at Nickel West as a result of the continued downturn in the nickel price and margin deterioration.
A total impairment charge of US$355 million after tax benefit was recognised in FY2012.
As part of our regular portfolio review, various operations and projects around the Group were either suspended, closed early or changed in status.
These included: the change in status of the Olympic Dam expansion project: the temporary suspension of production at TEMCO and the permanent closure of the Metalloys South Plant in South Africa: the indefinite cessation of production at Norwich Park: and the suspension of other minor capital projects.
As a result, impairment charges of US$338 million after tax benefit, idle capacity costs and inventory write-down of US$28 million after tax benefit and other restructuring costs of US$28 million after tax benefit were recognised in FY2012, of which US$242 million after tax benefit related to Olympic Dam.
During 2008, extreme weather across the central Queensland coalfields affected production from the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance BMA and BHP Billiton Mitsui Coal BMC operations.
The Group settled insurance claims in respect of the lost production and insurance claim income of US$210 million after tax expense was recognised in FY2012.
The Australian MRRT and PRRT extension legislation were enacted in March 2012.
Under the legislation, the Group is entitled to a deduction against future MRRT and PRRT liabilities based on the market value of its Coal, Iron Ore and Petroleum assets.
A deferred tax asset, and an associated net income tax benefit of US$637 million, was recognised in FY2012 to reflect the future deductibility of these market values for MRRT and PRRT purposes, to the extent they were considered recoverable.
Exceptional items during FY2012 are classified by nature as follows.
Idle capacity Impairment of costs and Year ended 30 June 2012 goodwill and inventory Restructuring Insurance US$M other assets write-downs costs recoveries Gross Impairment of Fayetteville goodwill and other assets 2,835 2,835 Impairment of Nickel West goodwill and other assets 406 43 449 Suspension or early closure of operations and the change in status of specific projects 422 40 40 502 Settlement of insurance claims 300 300 3,663 83 40 300 3,486 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 107 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
5 Exceptional items continued Year ended 30 June 2011 Gross Tax Net Year ended 30 June 2011 US$M US$M US$M Exceptional items by category Withdrawn offer for PotashCorp 314 314 Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 150 45 105 Release of income tax provisions 718 718 Reversal of deferred tax liabilities 1,455 1,455 164 2,128 1,964 The Group withdrew its offer for PotashCorp on 15 November 2010, following the Boards conclusion that the condition of the offer relating to receipt of a net benefit, as determined by the Minister of Industry under the Investment Canada Act, could not be satisfied.
The Group incurred fees associated with the US$45 billion debt facility US$240 million, investment bankers, lawyers and accountants fees, printing expenses and other charges US$74 million in progressing this matter during the period up to the withdrawal of the offer, which were expensed as operating costs in the year ended 30 June 2011.
The Group recognised a decrease of US$150 million before tax expense to its rehabilitation obligations in respect of former operations at the Newcastle steelworks Australia following a full review of the progress of the Hunter River Remediation Project and estimated costs to completion.
The Australian Taxation Office ATO issued amended assessments in prior years denying bad debt deductions arising from the investments in Beenup and Boodarie Iron both Australia and the denial of capital allowance claims made on the Boodarie Iron project.
The Group challenged the assessments and was successful on all counts before the Full Federal Court.
The ATO obtained special leave in September 2010 to appeal to the High Court in respect of the denial of capital allowance claims made on the Boodarie Iron project.
The Groups position in respect of the capital allowance claims on the Boodarie Iron project was confirmed by the High Court in June 2011.
As a result of these appeals, US$138 million was released from the Groups income tax provision in September 2010 and US$580 million in June 2011.
Consistent with the functional currency of the Groups operations, eligible Australian entities elected to adopt a US dollar tax functional currency from 1 July 2011.
As a result, the deferred tax liability DTL relating to certain US dollar denominated financial arrangements has been derecognised, resulting in a credit to income tax expense of US$1.5 billion.
Exceptional items during FY2011 are classified by nature as follows.
Closure and rehabilitation Year ended 30 June 2011 External provisions US$M services released Gross Withdrawn offer for PotashCorp 314 314 Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation 150 150 314 150 164 3.6.
6 Business summary The discussion of results for our Businesses is set out below and focuses on Underlying EBIT as defined in section 3.3.
Underlying EBITDA is Underlying EBIT before depreciation, impairments and amortisation.
Underlying EBIT and Underlying EBITDA are not IFRS measures of profitability, financial performance or liquidity and may be defined and used in differing ways by different entities.
We believe that Underlying EBIT and Underlying EBITDA provide useful information, but should not be considered as an indication of, or alternative to, Attributable profit as an indicator of operating performance.
For further information on our Business results, refer note 2 Segment reporting to the financial statements.
108 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
6 Business summary continued Petroleum and Potash Year ended 30 June 2013 compared with year ended 30 June 2012 Petroleum production increased by six per cent in FY2013, to 236 million barrels of oil equivalent MMboe BHP Billiton share and included strong performance from Onshore US, which delivered 99 MMboe BHP Billiton share.
The Eagle Ford area contributed 33 per cent of total Onshore US production to become Petroleums largest producing field at the end of the period.
Petroleum and Potash revenue increased by US$276 million to US$13.2 billion.
Revenue for Onshore US grew by US$818 million to US$3.0 billion, an increase of 37.7 per cent.
The increase in revenue in Onshore US resulted from higher volumes, which grew by 15.9 per cent.
The increase in volume included a 76 per cent increase in higher value liquids production and a seven per cent increase in natural gas production.
Increases in revenue at Mad Dog of US$276 million, with recommencement of operations during the year, and an increase at North West Shelf NWS Australia of US$203 million, due to higher LNG sales, were partially offset by reductions in our other assets, primarily due to natural field decline at our operated Australian oil and gas assets.
The average realised price of natural gas across our portfolio increased by 11 per cent in FY2013 to US$3.76 per thousand standard cubic feet scf.
This included a 17 per cent increase in the average realised price of US natural gas to US$3.29 per thousand scf.
The average realised price of LNG also increased during the period, rising by four per cent to US$14.82 per thousand scf.
These gains were partially offset by a four per cent decrease in the average realised price of oil to US$106 per barrel.
The average realised price of natural gas liquids NGLs was US$45.70 per barrel.
Petroleum and Potash Underlying EBIT for FY2013 declined by US$369 million to US$5.7 billion.
Petroleums Underlying EBIT decreased by US$363 million to US$6.0 billion.
The natural field decline at our Australian assets contributed to a US$266 million volume related reduction in Underlying EBIT.
A series of one-off charges, which included Onshore US drill rig contract termination costs and an impairment that followed the suspension of studies and re-evaluation of alternative development options associated with the Mad Dog Phase 2 project, reduced Underlying EBIT by a further US$160 million.
In contrast, a US$126 million reduction in exploration and business development expense reflected our sharpened focus on high value oil and gas prospects in the Gulf of Mexico and offshore Western Australia.
The Onshore US Underlying EBIT was a loss of US$287 million compared with a loss of US$140 million in FY2012.
The FY2013 loss included a one-off charge for the drill rig termination costs of US$77 million.
The FY2012 loss included a one-off gain of US$192 million associated with legacy US gas derivatives.
Adjusting for the one-off gains and losses, the loss in Underlying EBIT reduced year-over-year.
The reduced loss was primarily due to increased volumes and prices partially offset by higher depreciation and amortisation of US$355 million and higher transportation costs due to higher volumes.
Capital expenditure for our conventional and unconventional operations totalled US$7.1 billion in FY2013.
This included US$4.8 billion in Onshore US drilling and development expenditure, with over 80 per cent of drilling activity directed towards the Eagle Ford and Permian areas, as planned.
While still in its early stages, the Permian evaluation program continues to deliver encouraging results, as demonstrated by the 1 MMboe produced in FY2013.
The contribution of approximately 4 MMboe is expected in FY2014.
Onshore US overview for FY2013 Liquids-focused areas Gas-focused areas Eagle Ford and Haynesville and FY2013 Permian Fayetteville Total Capital expenditure US$ billion 3.9 0.9 4.8 Production MMboe 33.4 65.8 99.2 Product mix Natural gas 42% 100% Natural Gas Liquid 23% Crude and condensate 35% Onshore US capital expenditure is expected to decline to US$3.9 billion in FY2014 as we continue to optimise our drilling program.
This includes a forecast reduction in our operated rig count to an average of 25 for the period.
Approximately 75 per cent of operated drilling activity will be focused on our liquids-rich acreage in the Eagle Ford area.
The remaining activity will occur in the Haynesville and Permian areas, where we are continuing to evaluate our most prospective acreage.
Our operated drilling program in the Fayetteville area has been temporarily suspended: however, we will continue to invest in wells operated by third parties where we see value.
Petroleum exploration expenditure for FY2013 was US$675 million, of which US$522 million was expensed.
A US$600 million exploration program, largely focused on the Gulf of Mexico and Western Australia, is planned for FY2014.
Petroleum production is forecast to increase to 250 MMboe BHP Billiton share in FY2014.
This includes 114 MMboe BHP Billiton share from Onshore US, underpinned by an anticipated 75 per cent increase in liquids production.
Production from the conventional operations is expected to remain stable, with new volumes from Macedon and increased production at Atlantis United States offset by expected natural field decline and planned maintenance.
The Potash Business is not in production and had a loss, in Underlying EBIT terms, for FY2013 of US$334 million, which was largely unchanged from the prior period.
A reduction in our global potash exploration activity was offset by higher costs associated with the establishment of our Potash Business in Saskatchewan Canada.
In August 2013, we announced our decision to invest a further US$2.6 billion, which brings the total approved spending to US$3.8 billion, to finish the excavation and lining of the Jansen Potash Project production and service shafts, and to continue the installation of essential surface infrastructure and utilities.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 109 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
6 Business summary continued Supplementary information for FY2013 and FY2012 for the Petroleum and Potash Business is presented below.
2 Capex in aggregate comprises Petroleum US$6,926 million growth and US$146 million other 2012: US$5,709 million growth and US$121 million other and Potash US$646 million growth and US$12 million other 2012: US$460 million growth and US$ nil other.
3 Includes US$153 million of Petroleum capitalised exploration 2012: US$681 million.
4 Includes US$98 million of Petroleum exploration expenditure previously capitalised, written off as impaired included in depreciation and amortisation 2012: US$144 million.
5 Includes Petrohawk Energy Corporation acquired on 20 August 2011.
The year ended June 2012 includes a gain on hedging activity of US$192 million.
6 Algeria includes ROD and Ohanet.
The Ohanet Risk Sharing Contract expired in October 2011.
7 Includes the following fields Macedon, Pyrenees, Stybarrow, Neptune, Minerva, Angostura, West Cameron 76, Genesis, Starlifter and Pakistan.
West Cameron 76 and Starlifter were divested in May 2012.
8 Includes an unrealised loss of US$84 million related to Angostura embedded derivative 2012: US$99 million unrealised gain.
9 Includes a post-closing payment of US$100 million received in December 2011 relating to the 2006 divestment of BHP Billitons interest in Cascade and Chinook.
110 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
6 Business summary continued Copper Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 Year ended 30 June 2013 compared with year ended 30 June 2012 In combination with our worldwide conventional oil and gas Copper production increased by 10 per cent in FY2013 to 1.2 Mt BHP Billiton share.
Escondida Chile copper production increased operations, the integration of the Eagle Ford, Haynesville and Permian operations from the Petrohawk acquisition strengthened by 28 per cent to 1.1 Mt 100 per cent basis as the average copper grade mined rose to 1.4 per cent and milling rates improved.
Record our operating position in the Onshore US and combined with the Fayetteville field contributed to a 40 per cent increase in Petroleum annual copper production at Antamina Peru also contributed to the strong result having benefited from a full-year contribution from production to 222.3 MMboe for FY2012.
Our total production averaged 608,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This achievement the recently expanded concentrator.
was realised despite extended downtime at our non-operated Copper revenue increased by US$395 million to US$12.0 billion, facilities in the Gulf of Mexico.
largely driven by production increases at Escondida and Antamina, partially offset by a five per cent decrease in average realised Petroleum and Potash Underlying EBIT for FY2012 declined from US$6.2 billion to US$6.0 billion.
Revenue for Escondida increased US$925 million to US$4.9 billion due to the 28 per cent increase in production, Petroleums contribution to Underlying EBIT for FY2012 was driven by higher average copper grades mined and improved milling unchanged from the prior period at US$6.3 billion.
This financial rates partially offset by lower average realised prices.
The increase performance was achieved despite natural field decline at Pyrenees in revenue at Escondida was partially offset by decreases at Pampa and the substantial deferral of production due to extended Norte Chile, Cannington and Olympic Dam both Australia in line downtime in the Gulf of Mexico and the NWS.
Higher prices for with lower production and lower average realised prices.
our offshore production increased Underlying EBIT by US$1.5 billion, largely as a result of a 19 per cent increase in the average realised Underlying EBIT for FY2013 declined by US$343 million to US$3.6 billion.
Increased sales volumes and controllable cash cost price of oil to US$110.66 per barrel and a 29 per cent rise in the average realised price of LNG to US$14.23 per thousand scf.
For US savings associated with productivity gains and broader economies of scale increased Underlying EBIT by US$966 million.
In this context, natural gas, our average realised price in FY2012 was US$2.82 per thousand scf, and for NGLs our average realised price in FY2012 strong production growth and a material reduction in controllable cash costs contributed to a 15 per cent reduction in unit cash costs was US$54.85.
The low natural gas price in the United States resulted in Onshore US having a loss of US$140 million compared at Escondida.
In contrast, the external influences of lower prices, inflation and foreign exchange variations reduced Underlying with a profit of US$43 million in FY2011.
Payments associated with the finalisation Capital expenditure across our offshore and onshore operations of multi-year collective labour agreements at each of our totalled US$5.8 billion in FY2012.
Spending in major capital projects South American assets and major planned maintenance programs across our conventional portfolio was US$2.5 billion and primarily at Escondida, and Olympic Dam, reduced Underlying EBIT by a further included projects in Western Australia and the Gulf of Mexico.
Exploration and development expenditure specifically within our The average realised price of copper for the period declined by Onshore US Asset totalled US$3.7 billion in FY2012 and was five per cent to US$3.41 per pound.
At 30 June 2013, the Group expected to rise to US$4.0 billion in FY2013.
At the end of FY2012, had 283,753 tonnes of outstanding copper sales that were revalued over 80 per cent of the activity of our approximately 40 drilling rigs at a weighted average price of US$3.08 per pound.
The final in the Onshore US Asset was focused on the Eagle Ford and price of these sales will be determined in FY2014.
278,547 tonnes of copper sales from FY2012 were subject to a We achieved success in our conventional exploration program finalisation adjustment in FY2013.
Provisional pricing and finalisation in FY2012, as seven of 12 wells encountered hydrocarbons.
The adjustments decreased Underlying EBIT by US$224 million in associated rise in our level of activity resulted in a US$798 million FY2013 FY2012: US$265 million loss.
increase in gross exploration spend for the period to US$1.4 billion.
Revenue for Olympic Dam decreased by US$273 million to Capitalised exploration costs increased from US$153 million in US$1.9 billion, primarily due to lower prices and reduced FY2011 to US$681 million in FY2012.
Price, grade and smelter availability contributed The strong liquids growth potential of our Onshore US Asset was to the decrease in Underlying EBIT from US$214 million in demonstrated by the 60 per cent increase in LNG production, to FY2012 to an Underlying EBIT loss of US$4 million in FY2013.
more than 40,000 barrels per day over the 10-month period since During the period, we signed a definitive agreement to sell the acquisition of Petrohawk.
our Pinto Valley mining operation and the associated San Manuel Higher potash exploration and business development costs resulted Arizona Railroad Company to Capstone Mining Corp. for an in a loss in FY2012 Underlying EBIT of US$328 million.
aggregate cash consideration of US$650 million.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and other customary conditions, and is expected to be completed in the second half of the CY2013.
Escondida production is forecast to remain steady at approximately 1.1 Mt 100 per cent basis in FY2014, before increasing to approximately 1.3 Mt 100 per cent basis in FY2015.
Copper production for FY2014 is expected to remain largely unchanged at approximately 1.2 Mt BHP Billiton share excluding Pinto Valley production.
Production at Spence is expected to be weighted towards the second half of FY2014, as lower recoveries reduce output in the September 2013 quarter.
At Antamina, mining will transition from a copper to zinc rich ore zone in the second half of FY2014, consistent with the mine plan.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 111 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
6 Business summary continued Supplementary information for FY2013 and FY2012 for the Copper Business is presented below.
2 Includes US$ nil capitalised exploration 2012: US$6 million.
3 Includes Spence and Cerro Colorado.
Depreciation and amortisation includes impairment reversals of US$ nil relating to Pinto Valley 2012: US$71 million.
BHP Billiton has agreed to sell its Pinto Valley mining operation.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approval, and other customary conditions, and is expected to be completed in the second half of CY2013.
Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 We established strong momentum in our Copper Business in the June 2012 quarter.
Escondida copper production increased by 22 per cent from the March 2012 quarter as mining activities progressed towards higher-grade ore, while quarterly material mined, mill throughput and copper production records at Antamina added to the strong finish to the year.
Annual copper production, however, declined marginally in FY2012 as lower grades and industrial action constrained performance at Escondida for the first nine months of the year.
Production from Pampa Norte, Olympic Dam and Cannington during FY2012 was in line with production in FY2011.
Underlying EBIT for FY2012 decreased by US$2.8 billion to US$4.0 billion.
A 14 per cent fall in the average realised price of copper to US$3.58 per pound was the major contributor to the decline and reduced Underlying EBIT by US$1.4 billion.
General cost pressure across the Copper Business portfolio, together with unit cost escalation specifically associated with industrial activity and lower ore grades at Escondida, reduced Underlying EBIT by US$841 million.
At 30 June 2012, the Group had 278,547 tonnes of outstanding copper sales that were revalued at a weighted average price of US$3.49 per pound.
The final price of these sales was determined in FY2013.
In addition, 239,156 tonnes of copper sales from FY2011 were subject to a finalisation adjustment in FY2012.
This finalisation adjustment and the provisional pricing impact as at 30 June 2012 decreased Underlying EBIT by US$265 million for the period.
112 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
6 Business summary continued US$1.2 billion, respectively, remained largely unchanged during FY2013.
Increased depreciation and amortisation charges reduced Iron Ore Underlying EBIT by US$239 million, and reflected the recent Year ended 30 June 2013 compared with year ended 30 June 2012 completion of several major projects and a US$86 million impairment Iron ore production increased by seven per cent in FY2013 to 170 Mt of project costs associated with the WAIO Tug Harbour project.
WAIO production of 187 Mt 100 per cent basis represented a thirteenth consecutive annual production record.
On 10 July 2013, we completed the extension of our long-term WAIO joint venture relationship with ITOCHU Corporation ITOCHU and The delivery of WAIOs capital efficient growth program and continued strong operating performance across the supply chain Mitsui & Co. Ltd. Mitsui.
This transaction has aligned interests across the WAIO supply chain.
Under the terms of the agreement, contributed to this record result.
The three pellet plants at Samarco Brazil continued to operate at capacity during the period.
ITOCHU and Mitsui invested approximately US$822 million and US$720 million, respectively, in shares and loans of BHP Iron Ore revenue decreased by US$2.4 billion to US$20.2 billion Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd, representing an eight per cent and in FY2013.
Revenue for WAIO decreased US$2.0 billion to seven per cent interest in the Jimblebar mining hub and resource.
US$18.5 billion, a decrease of 9.9 per cent.
Record sales volumes The consideration included a share of capital costs associated at WAIO, which increased 9.6 per cent, were more than offset with the Jimblebar Mine Expansion project.
by a 17 per cent fall in the average realised price of iron ore to US$110 per tonne.
Several major milestones were achieved at our WAIO Asset during FY2013, including an increase in port capacity to 220 million tonnes Underlying EBIT for FY2013 declined by US$3.1 billion to per annum Mtpa 100 per cent basis following the successful US$11.1 billion.
The increased sales volumes at WAIO increased installation of all major infrastructure associated with the Port Underlying EBIT by US$1.4 billion.
However, this was more than Hedland Inner Harbour Expansion project.
First production from offset by the fall in the average realised price of iron ore, which the Jimblebar Mine Expansion, which is expected to increase reduced Underlying EBIT by US$3.9 billion, net of price-linked costs.
mine capacity to 220 Mtpa 100 per cent basis, is expected WAIOs export volumes for FY2013 were sold on the basis of shorter in the December 2013 quarter, ahead of schedule.
Longer term, term, market-based prices.
Revenue for the period reflected the the progressive debottlenecking of the supply chain is expected average index price one month prior to the month of shipment, to underpin substantial low-cost growth in our WAIO Asset.
adjusted for product characteristics such as iron and moisture WAIO production is expected to increase by 10 per cent content.
Approximately 65 per cent of shipments were delivered on a Cost and Freight CFR basis.
to approximately 207 Mt 100 per cent basis in FY2014.
The associated productivity gains should benefit unit costs Increased labour and contractor costs reduced Underlying EBIT by in FY2014: however, this is expected to be more than offset US$151 million during the period.
This largely reflected our decision by a temporary increase in strip ratios as the Jimblebar to invest in operating capability prior to the full commissioning and Mine Expansion ramps up production.
Total iron ore production ramp-up of expanded capacity at WAIO.
WAIO unit cash costs, for FY2014, which includes Samarco production, is forecast to including freight and royalty charges of US$856 million and increase by 11 per cent to 188 Mt BHP Billiton share.
Supplementary information for FY2013 and FY2012 for the Iron Ore Business is presented below.
US$ million Underlying Underlying Exploration Exploration 1 2 3 Year ended 30 June 2013 Revenue EBITDA D&A EBIT Capex gross to profit Western Australia Iron Ore 18,452 11,428 1,004 10,424 5,483 Samarco 1,622 811 61 750 772 Other 84 84 Total Iron Ore from Group production 20,074 12,155 1,065 11,090 6,255 4 Third party products 141 31 31 Total Iron Ore 20,215 12,186 1,065 11,121 6,255 217 74 US$ million Underlying Underlying Exploration Exploration 1 2 3 Year ended 30 June 2012 Revenue EBITDA D&A EBIT Capex gross to profit Western Australia Iron Ore 20,480 14,025 763 13,262 4,974 Samarco 1,996 1,106 55 1,051 602 Other 135 8 143 58 Total Iron Ore from Group production 22,476 14,996 826 14,170 5,634 4 Third party products 125 31 31 Total Iron Ore 22,601 15,027 826 14,201 5,634 287 135 1 Includes inter-segment revenue of US$55 million 2012: US$39 million.
2 Capex in aggregate comprises US$6,072 million growth and US$183 million other 2012: US$5,584 million growth and US$50 million other.
3 Includes US$143 million capitalised exploration 2012: US$152 million.
4 Includes Boodarie Iron sales of contracted gas purchases and US$15 million mark-to-market gain on an embedded derivative 2012: US$27 million gain.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 113 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
6 Business summary continued Coal Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 Year ended 30 June 2013 compared with year ended 30 June 2012 Our commitment to invest throughout the economic cycle helped Metallurgical coal production increased by 13 per cent in FY2013 to 38 Mt.
A 19 per cent increase 100 per cent basis in production to deliver a twelfth consecutive annual production record in iron ore. WAIO shipments rose to a record annualised rate of 179 Mt in the at Queensland Coal was underpinned by record annual performance at both Peak Downs and South Walker Creek, and this was achieved June 2012 quarter 100 per cent basis.
Consistently strong operating performance, the ramp-up of Ore Handling Plant 3 at Yandi, dual despite the indefinite closure of Norwich Park and Gregory.
In addition, Illawarra Coal Australia achieved record annual tracking of the Companys rail infrastructure and additional ship loading capacity at Port Hedland contributed to the record result.
The three pellet plants at Samarco continued to operate at capacity Energy coal production increased by three per cent in FY2013 to in the period.
73 Mt, which included record annual production from New South Wales Energy Coal Australia following the successful ramp-up Underlying EBIT for FY2012 increased by US$873 million to of the RX1 project.
The outstanding financial performance was underpinned by record production at WAIO, which increased Coal revenue for FY2013 decreased by US$2.9 billion to Underlying EBIT by US$2.4 billion.
This was partially offset by US$10.7 billion.
Revenue at Queensland Coal decreased US$1.4 billion a seven per cent and five per cent decline in fines and lump prices, to US$4.5 billion, a decrease of 24.2 per cent.
Volume increases at respectively, which reduced Underlying EBIT by US$1.3 billion, Queensland Coal were more than offset by the effect of decreases net of price-linked costs.
While the acquisition of the HWE Mining in average realised prices.
Hard coking coal and weak coking coal subsidiaries in September 2012 eliminated third party contractor prices fell 34 per cent and 31 per cent, respectively.
Revenue at margin, one-off integration costs and an increase in exploration Energy Coal South Africa BECSA and Cerrejn Colombia decreased US$437 million and US$258 million, respectively, reflecting reduced expense more than offset the cost savings achieved during production and decreased thermal coal prices, which fell 18 per cent the period.
Revenue at New South Wales Energy Coal and New Mexico Coal were in line with FY2012, with volume increases offset by reduced thermal coal prices.
Underlying EBIT for FY2013 declined by US$2.1 billion to US$746 million.
The fall in hard coking coal, weak coking coal and thermal coal prices reduced Underlying EBIT by US$3.4 billion, net of price-linked costs.
This was partially offset by increased sales volumes and controllable cash cost savings, which increased Underlying EBIT by US$1.5 billion.
A strong focus on contractor usage and rates and a significant reduction in consumables expenditure contributed to the substantial reduction in operating costs at Queensland Coal, as demonstrated by the 30 per cent decline in mine site unit cash costs at BMA.
During FY2013, the Daunia and Broadmeadow Life Extension projects both Australia delivered first production, ahead of schedule.
First coal was also loaded from the Newcastle Third Port Stage 3 project Australia.
The Caval Ridge Australia, Cerrejn P40 and Appin Area 9 projects remain on schedule and budget.
Following a review of the Hay Point Stage Three Expansion project, we approved a US$255 million increase to the original budget of US$1.25 billion BHP Billiton share.
Shipments from the new facilities are now expected to commence in CY2015.
The revised schedule and budget reflects the impact of significant weather interruptions and associated productivity issues that have affected the marine works.
The schedule delay is not expected to impact the production profile of the Queensland Coal operation.
The continued ramp-up of Daunia and scheduled commissioning of Caval Ridge is expected to increase the capacity of our Queensland Coal operation to 66 Mtpa 100 per cent basis by the end of CY2014.
Metallurgical coal production for FY2014 is expected to increase to approximately 41 Mt BHP Billiton share, while energy coal production is expected to remain steady at 73 Mt BHP Billiton share.
114 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
6 Business summary continued Supplementary information for FY2013 and FY2012 for the Coal Business is presented below.
Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 Higher labour, raw material and other operating costs, primarily at Queensland Coal, contributed to a US$1.2 billion reduction in A modest increase in metallurgical coal production was achieved Underlying EBIT.
The progression of our development pipeline also in FY2012 despite numerous operating challenges.
Production led to an increase in exploration and business development costs at Queensland Coal remained constrained largely as a result of in the period.
industrial action, weather related downtime and geotechnical issues at Gregory Crinum.
Record annual production at Illawarra Coal In July 2012, force majeure was lifted across all BMA sites.
In addition, followed successful commissioning of the West Cliff Coal Preparation BMA and the unions reached a framework agreement that guided Plant upgrade project.
the finalisation of the BMA Enterprise Agreement.
Further work was underway to finalise local mine site details.
Annual production records were achieved in energy coal at two of our export oriented operations, Cerrejn and New South Wales In response to the challenging external environment, the Group Energy Coal.
The RX1 Project at New South Wales Energy Coal chose to delay the 2.5 Mtpa 100 per cent basis expansion of delivered first production during the June 2012 quarter, significantly Peak Downs associated with the Caval Ridge mine development.
This project capitalised on strong demand for Following a review of the Norwich Park mines profitability, high ash coal in our key growth markets.
we also announced the indefinite closure of this operation during the June 2012 quarter and the cessation of mining Coal Underlying EBIT for FY2012 decreased by US$1.0 billion at the Gregory open-cut mine.
Lower production volumes in metallurgical coal, mainly at Queensland Coal, reduced Underlying EBIT by The Group announced approval of the US$845 million Appin Area 9 US$135 million.
This was offset by stronger volumes and a higher Project in the period.
proportion of export sales in energy coal, largely associated with During FY2012, we also approved a further 8 Mtpa 100 per cent improved rail performance at BECSA and the accelerated expansion basis expansion of the Cerrejn mine.
The US$437 million project of New South Wales Energy Coal, which increased Underlying EBIT BHP Billiton share would increase export capacity to approximately by US$152 million in the period.
In addition, the partners approved the In contrast, a six per cent increase in the price of hard coking third phase of expansion of the Newcastle Coal Infrastructure coal and higher average realised prices in energy coal, most Groups NCIG coal handling facility in Newcastle Australia.
notably at Cerrejn, increased Underlying EBIT by US$434 million, net of price-linked costs.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 115 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.6.
6 Business summary continued Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel revenue decreased by 6.4 per cent, or US$633 million, to US$9.3 billion.
The reduction Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel was primarily due to decreases at Nickel West of US$270 million and The Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business represents from sales of third party products of US$392 million.
The decrease in the consolidation of three former Customer Sector Groups under revenue was mainly driven by lower realised prices across all parts a single management structure.
In this context, lower average realised prices for Year ended 30 June 2013 compared with year ended 30 June 2012 aluminium down six per cent to US$2,191 per tonne, alumina Alumina production increased by 18 per cent in FY2013 to a record down nine per cent to US$302 per tonne, nickel down 15 per cent 4.9 Mt BHP Billiton share, underpinned by the ramp-up of the to US$16,319 per tonne and manganese alloy down 10 per cent Efficiency and Growth project at Worsley.
Aluminium production to US$1,051 per tonne were only partially offset by an increase increased by two per cent to 1.2 Mt BHP Billiton share, with in the average realised price of manganese ore up nine per cent improved performance at our southern African smelters.
to US$4.83 per dry metric tonne unit.
Total manganese ore production increased by seven per cent in Underlying EBIT for FY2013 increased by US$188 million to FY2013 to a record 8.5 Mt 100 per cent basis and reflected a US$164 million.
With productivity improvements already well substantial improvement in plant availability at GEMCO Australia.
advanced, consisting principally of the improvement plan at Total manganese alloy volumes were largely unchanged from Worsley, substantial cost savings of US$480 million were achieved FY2012.
The recovery in TEMCO Australia production that followed during the period, while a stronger US dollar increased Underlying the temporary suspension of operations in the prior period was EBIT by a further US$243 million.
In contrast, weaker markets offset by the permanent closure of energy-intensive silicomanganese continued to challenge the Business as lower average realised production at Metalloys South Africa in January 2012. prices contributed to a US$474 million reduction in Underlying EBIT, net of price-linked costs.
Nickel production in FY2013 was largely unchanged from the prior period.
Strong operating performance at Cerro Matoso Colombia The US$167 million BHP Billiton share GEEP2 expansion at was offset by planned maintenance at the Nickel West Kalgoorlie GEMCO delivered first production during the period, ahead smelter and Kwinana refinery.
The project has increased processing capacity from 4.2 to 4.8 Mtpa 100 per cent basis and the ramp-up of the operation is largely complete.
Supplementary information for FY2013 and FY2012 for the Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Business is presented below.
US$ million Underlying Underlying Exploration Exploration 1 2 3 4 5 Year ended 30 June 2013 Revenue EBITDA D&A EBIT Capex gross to profit Alumina 1,422 119 239 120 98 Aluminium 2,620 92 127 35 27 Intra-divisional adjustment 638 3,404 211 366 155 125 Manganese 2,113 580 102 478 322 Nickel West 1,773 100 208 308 263 Cerro Matoso 803 235 79 156 44 Other 45 45 4 Total Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel from Group production 8,093 881 755 126 758 Third party products 1,185 38 38 Total Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel 9,278 919 755 164 758 57 53 US$ million Underlying Underlying Exploration Exploration 1 2 3 4 5 Year ended 30 June 2012 Revenue EBITDA D&A EBIT Capex gross to profit Alumina 1,277 14 190 204 827 Aluminium 2,638 38 126 88 25 Intra-divisional adjustment 636 3,279 24 316 292 852 Manganese 2,136 355 124 231 418 Nickel West 2,043 83 312 229 337 Cerro Matoso 876 414 80 334 105 Other 86 1 87 71 Total Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel from Group production 8,334 790 833 43 1,783 Third party products 1,577 19 19 Total Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel 9,911 809 833 24 1,783 79 68 1 Includes inter-segment revenue of US$20 million 2012: US$14 million.
2 Capex in aggregate comprises US$206 million growth and US$552 million other 2012: US$1,182 million growth and US$601 million other.
3 Capex includes US$4 million of expenditure in relation to centralising offices 2012: US$71 million.
4 Includes US$8 million capitalised exploration 2012: US$11 million.
5 Includes US$4 million exploration expenditure previously capitalised, written off as impaired included in depreciation and amortisation 2012: US$ nil.
116 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.6.
6 Business summary continued At Nickel Wests Mt Keith operation, a reduction in mining activity and the commissioning of the Talc Redesign project delivered Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 tangible cost benefits during the period.
These were offset by cost Record annual production at the Alumar refinery Brazil contributed escalation, which drove significant margin compression over the to a four per cent increase in total alumina production in FY2012.
Higher raw material costs for alumina and aluminium Aluminium production was lower as potline capacity at Hillside inputs, such as coke and caustic soda, led to a further US$337 million South Africa was temporarily curtailed following a major decline in Underlying EBIT.
Costs associated with the Hillside outage unplanned outage in the March 2012 quarter.
Consistently strong operating performance and improved plant The Worsley Efficiency and Growth project delivered first production availability at both GEMCO and Hotazel South Africa underpinned during FY2012.
Construction of the new Kwinana hydrogen plant annual manganese ore production and sales records in FY2012.
Manganese alloy production was substantially lower than the corresponding period following the termination of energy-intensive Group and unallocated items silicomanganese production at Metalloys and the temporary This category includes the Groups diamonds business divested suspension of production at TEMCO.
effective 10 April 2013, our interest in titanium minerals divested effective 3 September 2012, non-Potash corporate costs incurred The successful replacement of the Line 1 furnace at Cerro Matoso by the former Diamonds and Specialty Products CSG, and corporate in the September 2011 quarter led to an increase in annual nickel activities, including Group Treasury, Freight, Transport and production of 3.4 per cent.
Underlying EBIT for FY2012 decreased by US$1.6 billion to a Year ended 30 June 2013 compared with year ended 30 June 2012 loss of US$24 million.
This was driven, in part, by an eight per cent reduction in the average realised price of aluminium to US$2,314 Underlying EBIT declined by US$456 million to a loss of US$177 million.
The decline largely reflected a reduced contribution from Richards per tonne and a three per cent decline in the average realised price of alumina to US$333 per tonne, which reduced Underlying EBIT Bay Minerals and EKATI, following their sale during FY2013.
by US$245 million net of price-linked costs.
A 22 per cent decline Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 in the average realised price of manganese ore and a 10 per cent Underlying EBIT for Group and Unallocated in FY2012 decreased decline in the average realised price of manganese alloy further by US$32 million to US$279 million.
Stronger diamond and titanium reduced Underlying EBIT by US$400 million net of price-linked prices increased Underlying EBIT by US$246 million, but were offset costs.
Finally, a 22 per cent decline in the average realised nickel by the decline in production at EKATI, which reduced Underlying price reduced Underlying EBIT by US$584 million, net of price-linked EBIT by US$357 million.
Higher corporate and information costs.
In contrast, record manganese ore sales increased Underlying technology costs were more than offset by a foreign exchange EBIT by US$64 million.
related restatement and partial release of the Newcastle steelworks rehabilitation provision.
7 Third party sales We differentiate sales of our production from sales of third party products due to the significant difference in profit margin earned on these sales.
The table below shows the breakdown between our production and third party products.
2 Operating profit divided by revenue.
We engage in third party trading for the following reasons: Production variability and occasional shortfalls from our own assets means that we sometimes source third party materials to ensure a steady supply of product to our customers.
To optimise our supply chain outcomes, we may buy physical product from third parties.
In order to support development of more liquid markets, we will sometimes source third party physical product and manage risk through both the physical and financial markets.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 117 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.7 Liquidity and capital resources As a result of our record production volumes and record prices in many of our key commodities over the past several years, we have generated very strong cash flows throughout our operations.
Despite the changing economic and market conditions, our net operating cash flow in FY2013 of US$18.3 billion reflected the strong cash generating capacity of the Group throughout the economic cycle.
These cash flows have been fundamental to the funding of our existing operations, maintaining a pipeline of growth projects and returning capital to shareholders through dividends and, in prior years, share buy-backs.
Our priority for cash is to reinvest in the Company.
In line with our strategy, we have grown our business rapidly and consistently through project developments and acquisitions.
Through a combination of borrowings and payments to shareholders, we manage our balance sheet with the goal of maintaining levels of gearing that we believe optimise our costs of capital and return on capital employed.
Net operating cash flows are our principal source of cash.
We also raise funds from the debt markets to manage our liquidity position and to refinance existing debt.
Our liquidity position is supported by our strong credit rating and committed debt facilities.
1 Cash flow analysis A full consolidated cash flow statement is contained in the financial statements.
The explanatory notes appear in note 23 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement to the financial statements.
A summary table has been presented below to show the key sources and uses of cash.
2013 2012 2011 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M US$M Cash generated from operations 27,649 33,274 37,081 Dividends received and net interest paid 871 563 443 Taxation paid 8,526 8,327 6,558 Net operating cash flows 18,252 24,384 30,080 Purchases of property plant and equipment 21,573 18,385 11,147 Exploration expenditure 1,326 2,452 1,240 Exploration expenditure expensed and included in operating cash flows 1,022 1,602 981 Purchases of intangibles 400 220 211 Investment in financial assets 338 341 238 Investment in subsidiaries, operations and jointly controlled entities 12,556 4,807 Net proceeds from investing activities 4,744 316 198 Net investing cash flows 17,871 32,036 16,464 Net proceeds from repayment of interest bearing liabilities 7,395 8,827 577 Share buy-back 83 9,860 Dividends paid 6,222 5,933 5,144 Other financing activities 351 302 437 Net financing activities 822 2,509 16,018 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 1,203 5,143 2,402 118 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.7.
2 Major projects Year ended 30 June 2013 compared with year ended 30 June 2012 At the end of FY2013, we had 18 major projects, which are largely brownfield, in execution with a combined budget of US$21.2 billion.
Net operating cash flows after interest and tax declined by The majority of these projects are scheduled to deliver first production 25.1 per cent to US$18.3 billion for FY2013.
A US$5.6 billion before the end of CY2014.
This budget does not include an reduction in cash generated from operations after changes in additional US$3.9 billion of capital expenditure that we expect working capital balances was the major contributor to the decline.
to spend in FY2014 on development of our Onshore US Asset.
A US$14.2 billion reduction in net investing cash outflows to The Broadmeadow Life Extension and Bass Strait Kipper projects US$17.9 billion primarily reflected the acquisition of Petrohawk both Australia were completed during FY2013.
In addition, four Energy Corporation in the prior period and a US$4.4 billion increase major projects achieved either first production or shipment in in proceeds from asset sales.
Capital and exploration expenditure the period: namely, WAIO Port Hedland Inner Harbour Expansion, totalled US$22.9 billion in FY2013.
Expenditure on major growth WAIO Orebody 24, Daunia and the Newcastle Third Port Stage 3 projects was US$18.8 billion, including US$6.9 billion on Petroleum project all Australia.
projects and US$11.9 billion on Minerals projects.
Capital expenditure on sustaining and other items was US$2.8 billion.
Exploration The Bass Strait Kipper project will commence production upon expenditure was US$1.3 billion, including US$1.0 billion classified completion of the mercury removal project refer to section 2.2.
1 within net operating cash flows.
The breakdown of capital and for further details.
exploration expenditure by Business is set out in section 3.4.
During FY2013, we approved the US$520 million BHP Billiton share Net financing cash flows included proceeds from borrowings of Longford Gas Conditioning Plant LGCP project as part of the US$10.0 billion and were partially offset by debt repayments of Gippsland Basin Joint Venture Bass Strait, Australia.
The LGCP US$2.6 billion and dividend payments of US$6.2 billion.
Proceeds will add carbon dioxide CO removal capacity which is necessary 2 from borrowings include the issuance of a two tranche Euro bond to condition production from the Bass Strait Turrum project currently of 2.0 billion, a two tranche Sterling bond of 1.75 billion, an in development.
Australian dollar bond of A$1.0 billion, a Euro bond of 750 million On 25 July 2013, we announced an investment of US$2.0 billion and a Canadian dollar bond of C$750 million.
BHP Billiton share to construct a desalination facility, which will Net debt, comprising interest bearing liabilities less cash, was deliver sustainable water supply to Escondida over the long term.
US$29.1 billion, an increase of US$5.5 billion compared to the net On 20 August 2013, we announced an investment of US$2.6 billion debt position at 30 June 2012. to finish the excavation and lining of the Jansen Potash Project Year ended 30 June 2012 compared with year ended 30 June 2011 production and service shafts, and to continue the installation Net operating cash flows after interest and tax decreased by of essential surface infrastructure and utilities.
This investment 18.9 per cent to US$24.4 billion for FY2012.
A US$3.8 billion will be spread over a number of years, with completion of both reduction in cash generated from operations after changes in shafts expected during CY2016, while the associated works program working capital balances was the major contributor to the decline.
Total approved expenditure for Jansen Higher net income tax paid and increased royalty-related taxation has increased to US$3.8 billion, which includes US$3.4 billion payments further reduced net operating cash flows after interest of pre-commitment funding.
and tax by US$1.4 billion and US$408 million, respectively.
The WAIO Jimblebar Mine Expansion, which is set to increase Investing cash flows increased by US$15.6 billion, primarily driven supply chain capacity to 220 Mtpa 100 per cent basis, is expected by investment in subsidiaries and operations of US$12.6 billion in to achieve first production in the December 2013 quarter, ahead of FY2012, the majority of which related to the purchase of Petrohawk, schedule.
As previously announced, the project remains on budget with a resulting cash outflow of US$12.0 billion.
Capital and in local currency terms, although the capital cost in US dollars exploration expenditure, including exploration expenditure expensed is expected to be 10 per cent higher than the original budget.
and included in operating cash flows, totalled US$20.8 billion in This increase was offset by a change in scope and US$400 million FY2012.
Expenditure on major growth projects was US$16.3 billion, reduction in the budget for the WAIO Port Blending and Rail Yard including US$5.1 billion on Petroleum projects and US$11.2 billion Facilities project, which reflects the decision to prioritise capital on Minerals projects.
Capital expenditure on sustaining and other efficient growth in the Inner Harbour.
As a result, WAIO remains items was US$2.0 billion.
well positioned to deliver 220 Mtpa of supply chain capacity ahead of schedule and on budget.
Net financing cash flows include proceeds from borrowings of US$13.3 billion, partially offset by dividend payments of US$5.9 billion Following a review of the Hay Point Stage Three Expansion project and debt repayments of US$4.3 billion.
Proceeds from borrowings Australia, BHP Billiton approved a US$255 million increase to the include the issuance of a three tranche Global Bond of US$3.0 billion, original budget of US$1.25 billion BHP Billiton share.
Shipments a five tranche Global Bond of US$5.25 billion, a two tranche from the new facilities are now expected to commence in CY2015.
Euro Bond of 2.0 billion and proceeds from Commercial Paper The revised schedule and budget reflects the impact of significant of US$995 million.
weather interruptions and associated productivity issues which have affected the marine works.
The schedule delay is not expected to Net debt, comprising interest bearing liabilities less cash and impact the production profile of the Queensland Coal operation.
cash equivalents, was US$23.6 billion, an increase of US$17.8 billion compared with the net debt position at 30 June 2011.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 119 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.7.
2 Major projects continued Projects completed during FY2013 1 2 Capital expenditure US$M Date of initial production 1 3 Business Project Capacity Actual Budget Actual Target 4 4 Petroleum Bass Strait Kipper Australia 10,000 barrels of condensate 905 900 Q3 2012 2012 BHP Billiton 32.5% 50% per day and processing capacity Non-operator of 80 million cubic feet of gas per day MMcf d. Coal Broadmeadow Life Extension Increases productive capacity by 483 450 Q1 2013 2013 Australia 0.4 Mtpa of metallurgical coal and BHP Billiton 50% extends life of the mine by 21 years.
1,388 1,350 Projects in execution at the end of FY2013 1 2 Capital expenditure US$M Date of initial production 1 3 Business Project Capacity Actual Budget Actual Target Projects that delivered first production during FY2013 5 5 Iron Ore WAIO Port Hedland Inner Harbour Increases total Inner Harbour capacity 1,900 1,900 Q4 2012 H2 2012 Expansion Australia to 220 Mtpa.
Debottlenecking BHP Billiton 85% opportunities that would add substantial, low-cost capacity are being evaluated.
WAIO Orebody 24 Australia Maintains iron ore production 698 698 Q4 2012 H2 2012 BHP Billiton 85% output from the Newman Joint Venture operations.
Coal Daunia Australia Greenfield mine development 676 800 Q1 2013 2013 BHP Billiton 50% with 4.5 Mtpa of export metallurgical coal capacity.
Newcastle Third Port Increases total coal terminal 367 367 Q2 2013 2014 Project Stage 3 Australia capacity from 53 Mtpa to 66 Mtpa.
BHP Billiton 35.5% Projects under development approved in prior years Budget Target Petroleum Macedon Australia 200 MMcf d. 1,050 2013 BHP Billiton 71.43% Operator 6 6 7 Bass Strait Turrum Australia 11,000 barrels of condensate 1,350 2013 BHP Billiton 50% per day and processing capacity Non-operator of 200 MMcf d. North West Shelf Greater Western To maintain LNG plant throughput 400 2016 Flank-A Australia from the North West Shelf operations.
BHP Billiton 16.67% Non-operator North West Shelf 2,500 MMcf d. 850 2013 North Rankin B Gas Compression Australia BHP Billiton 16.67% Non-operator Copper Escondida Organic Growth Replaces the Los Colorados 2,207 H1 2015 Project 1 Chile concentrator with a new BHP Billiton 57.5% 152,000 tonnes per day plant.
Escondida Oxide Leach New dynamic leaching pad and 414 H1 2014 Area Project Chile mineral handling system.
Maintains BHP Billiton 57.5% oxide leaching capacity.
5 6 8 6 Iron Ore WAIO Jimblebar Mine Expansion Increases mining and processing 3,220 Q4 2013 Australia capacity to 35 Mtpa with incremental 8 BHP Billiton 85% debottlenecking opportunities to 55 Mtpa.
5 6 9 WAIO Port Blending and Rail Yard Optimises resource and enhances 1,000 H2 2014 Facilities Australia efficiency across the WAIO BHP Billiton 85% supply chain.
Samarco Fourth Increases iron ore pellet production 1,750 H1 2014 Pellet Plant Brazil capacity by 8.3 Mtpa to 30.5 Mtpa.
BHP Billiton 50% 120 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.7.
2 Major projects continued 1 2 Capital expenditure US$M Date of initial production 1 3 Business Project Capacity Actual Budget Actual Target Projects under development approved in prior years continued 5 6 6 Coal Hay Point Stage Increases port capacity from 1,505 2015 Three Expansion Australia 44 Mtpa to 55 Mtpa and reduces BHP Billiton 50% storm vulnerability.
5 Greenfield mine development 1,870 Caval Ridge 2014 Australia to produce an initial 5.5 Mtpa BHP Billiton 50% of export metallurgical coal.
Appin Area 9 Maintains Illawarra Coals production 845 2016 Australia capacity with a replacement mining BHP Billiton 100% domain and capacity to produce 3.5 Mtpa of metallurgical coal.
Cerrejn P40 Project Colombia Increases saleable thermal coal 437 2013 BHP Billiton 33.3% production by eight Mtpa to approximately 40 Mtpa.
Projects under development approved during FY2013 Budget Target Petroleum Bass Strait Longford Gas Conditioning Designed to process approximately 520 2016 Plant 400 MMcf d of high CO gas.
2 Australia BHP Billiton 50% Non-operator 21,183 1 All references to capacity are 100 per cent unless noted otherwise.
All references to capital expenditure are BHP Billitons share unless noted otherwise.
2 References are based on calendar years.
4 Facilities were completed in September 2012 and will be ready for first production once the mercury removal project is complete.
6 As per revised budget and or schedule.
7 Initial pr oduction through the Turrum facilities, scheduled for CY2013, will be low CO gas.
Additional high CO production from the Turrum reservoir will come online 2 2 with completion of the Longford Gas Conditioning Plant in CY2016.
8 P rior to completion of the ITOCHU and Mitsui transaction in July 2013, BHP Billitons economic interest in the Jimblebar Mine Expansion project was 96 per cent and our share of approved capital expenditure was US$3.6 billion.
9 The construction of port blending and r ail yard facilities at the South Stockyard is no longer included in the scope of the WAIO Port Blending and Rail Yard Facilities project.
3 Net debt and sources of liquidity During FY2013, we made the following debt issues: Our policies on debt and treasury management are as follows: In September 2012, we issued a two tranche Euro bond and a two a commitment to a solid A credit rating: tranche Sterling bond.
The Euro bond issue comprised 1.25 billion gearing to be a maximum of 40 per cent: 2.250 per cent bonds due 2020 and 750 million 3.250 per cent diversification of funding sources: bonds due 2027.
The Sterling bond issue comprised 750 million generally to maintain borrowings and excess cash in US dollars.
3.250 per cent bonds due 2024 and 1.0 billion 4.300 per cent Gearing and net debt bonds due 2042.
30 June 2013 compared with 30 June 2012 In October 2012, we issued an A$1.0 billion 3.750 per cent Australian dollar bond due 2017.
Net debt, comprising Interest bearing liabilities less Cash and cash equivalents, was US$29.1 billion, which represented an increase of In April 2013, we issued a 750 million 3.125 per cent Euro US$5.5 billion compared with the net debt position at 30 June 2012. bond due 2033.
Gearing, which is the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net assets, In May 2013, we issued a C$750 million 3.230 per cent was 28.8 per cent at 30 June 2013, compared with 26.0 per cent at Canadian bond due 2023.
The primary reason for the increase in gearing during None of our Group level borrowing facilities are subject to FY2013 was due to the issue of bonds during the period.
Certain specific financing facilities in relation Cash at bank and in hand less overdrafts at 30 June 2013 was to specific Businesses are the subject of financial covenants that US$6.1 billion compared with US$4.9 billion at 30 June 2012. vary from facility to facility, but which would be considered normal Included within this were short-term deposits at 30 June 2013 for such facilities.
of US$3.2 billion compared with US$3.3 billion at 30 June 2012.
30 June 2012 compared with 30 June 2011 Net debt was US$23.6 billion, which represented an increase of US$17.8 billion compared with the net debt position at 30 June 2011.
Gearing was 26.0 per cent at 30 June 2012, compared with 9.2 per cent at 30 June 2011.
The primary reason for the increase in gearing during FY2012 was the purchase of Petrohawk for US$12.0 billion and assumption of net debt of US$3.8 billion.
Cash at bank and in hand less overdrafts at 30 June 2012 was US$4.9 billion compared with US$10.1 billion at 30 June 2011.
Included within this were short-term deposits at 30 June 2012 of US$3.3 billion compared with US$8.7 billion at 30 June 2011.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 121 3 Operating and financial review and prospects continued 3.7.
3 Net debt and sources of liquidity continued Our maturity profile for US dollar bonds, Euro bonds and Australian dollar bonds for the following five years is set out below.
Details of major standby and support arrangements are as follows.
Facility Facility available Used Unused available Used Unused 2013 2013 2013 2012 2012 2012 US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M US$M 1 Commercial paper program 6,000 1,330 4,670 4,000 995 3,005 2 Other facilities 59 59 60 60 Total financing facilities 6,059 1,330 4,729 4,060 995 3,065 1 The Group has a US$6.0 billion commercial paper program backed by US$6.0 billion of revolving credit facilities.
The multi-currency revolving credit facilities consist of US$5.0 billion expiring in December 2015 and US$1.0 billion expiring in December 2013 with the ability to extend to December 2014.
These facilities are used for general corporate purposes and as backup for the commercial paper programs.
The interest rates under these facilities are based on an interbank rate plus a margin.
The applicable margin is typical for a credit facility extended to a company with the Groups credit rating.
The Group had US$1.3 billion outstanding in the US commercial paper market at the end of the financial year 2012: US$995 million.
2 Other bank facilities are arranged with a number of banks with the general terms and conditions agreed on a periodic basis.
Additional information regarding the maturity profile of our debt On 20 June 2013, we announced an extension of our long-term joint obligations and details of our standby and support agreements venture relationship with ITOCHU Corporation ITOCHU and Mitsui is included in note 29 Financial risk management to the & Co. Ltd. Mitsui.
This transaction was completed on 10 July 2013 financial statements.
and has aligned interests across the WAIO supply chain.
Under the terms of the agreement, ITOCHU and Mitsui invested approximately On 21 August 2013, Moodys Investors Service affirmed the Groups US$822 million and US$720 million, respectively, in shares and loans long-term credit rating of A1 the short-term credit rating is P-1.
of BHP Iron Ore Jimblebar Pty Ltd, representing an eight per cent Standard & Poors are currently conducting their annual review and seven per cent interest in the Jimblebar mining hub and of the Groups long-term credit rating of A the short-term credit resource.
The consideration included a share of capital costs rating is A-1.
associated with the Jimblebar Mine Expansion project.
6 Dividend and capital management about market risk The Groups priorities for capital management remain unchanged: We identified our primary market risks in section 3.4.
A description firstly, to invest in high-return growth opportunities throughout the of how we manage our market risks, including both quantitative and economic cycle: secondly, to maintain a solid A credit rating and qualitative information about our market risk sensitive instruments to grow our progressive dividend: and finally, to return excess capital outstanding at 30 June 2013, is contained in note 29 Financial risk to shareholders.
management to the financial statements.
The disciplined application of these priorities within the framework 3.7.
5 Portfolio management of our strategy has not only facilitated strong growth in the business, We continually review our portfolio to identify assets that no longer but has also enabled the Company to return US$59.1 billion to fit our strategy.
Our commitment to simplify our portfolio continued shareholders in the form of dividends and share buy-backs over to deliver value for shareholders, with major transactions totalling the last 10 years.
US$6.5 billion, either announced or completed during the period.
BHP Billiton has a progressive dividend policy.
The aim of this policy We will purchase interests in assets where they fit our strategy.
is to steadily increase or at least maintain our base dividend in On 19 December 2012, we completed the sale of our wholly US dollars at each half-yearly payment.
owned Yeelirrie uranium deposit for a final cash consideration On 20 August 2013, the Board declared a final dividend for the of US$430 million.
year of 59 US cents per share.
Together with the interim dividend On 7 September 2012, we completed the sale of our 37.76 per cent of 57 US cents per share paid to shareholders on 28 March 2013, effective interest in Richards Bay Minerals for a final cash this brought the total dividend declared for the year to 116 US cents consideration of US$1.7 billion.
per share, a 3.6 per cent increase over the previous years full-year dividend of 112 US cents per share.
On 10 April 2013, we completed the sale of our diamonds business, comprising our interests in the EKATI Diamond Mine and Diamond Year ended 30 June 2013 2012 2011 Marketing operations for an aggregate cash consideration of US$553 million after adjustments.
Dividends declared in respect of the period US cents per share On 7 June 2013, we completed the sale of our 8.33 per cent interest Interim dividend 57.0 55.0 46.0 in the East Browse Joint Venture and 20 per cent interest in the Final dividend 59.0 57.0 55.0 West Browse Joint Venture to Petrochina International Investment Australia Pty Ltd for a consideration of US$1.7 billion.
116.0 112.0 101.0 On 29 April 2013, we announced we had signed a definitive agreement to sell our Pinto Valley mining operation and the associated San Manuel Arizona Railroad Company to Capstone Mining Corp for aggregate cash consideration of US$650 million.
122 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 3.8 Off-balance sheet arrangements and contractual commitments Information in relation to our material off-balance sheet arrangements, principally contingent liabilities, commitments for capital expenditure and commitments under leases at 30 June 2013 is provided in note 21 Contingent liabilities and note 22 Commitments to the financial statements.
3.9 Subsidiaries and related party transactions Subsidiary information Information about our significant subsidiaries is included in note 26 Subsidiaries to the financial statements.
Related party transactions Related party transactions are outlined in note 32 Related party transactions to the financial statements.
3.10 Significant changes since the end of the year Other than the matters outlined above or elsewhere in this Annual Report, no matters or circumstances have arisen since the end of the year that have significantly affected, or may significantly affect, the operations, results of operations or state of affairs of the Group in subsequent accounting periods.
