1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 6 42 37 20 10 1 7 43 9 4 3 5 21 26 39 40 32 15 27 14 2 17 11 23 16 22 18 12 29 41 33 25 28 13 30 19 35 38 31 36 24 34 8 27 Petroleum and Potash Copper Iron Ore Coal Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Offices Coal Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel continued Ref Country AssetDescription Ownership Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 18 South Africa Energy Coal Open-cut and underground energy coal 50100% 28 South Africa Manganese Integrated producer of manganese 44.460% South Africa mines and processing operations South Africa ore and alloy 19 Australia New South Wales Open-cut energy coal mine and coal 100% 29 Mozambique Mozal Aluminium smelter near Maputo 47.1% Energy Coal preparation plant in New South Wales 30 Australia Nickel West Integrated sulphide mining, 100% concentrating, smelting and refining 20 US New Mexico Coal Two energy coal mines in New Mexico 100% operation in Western Australia b 21 Colombia Cerrejn Open-cut energy coal mine with 33.3% integrated rail and port operations 31 Australia Worsley Integrated bauxite mine and alumina 86% refinery in Western Australia 22 Australia BHP Billiton Open-cut and underground metallurgical 50% c Mitsubishi coal mines in the Queensland Bowen 32 Brazil Alumar Aluminium refinery and smelter 3640% Alliance Basin and Hay Point Coal terminal 23 Australia BHP Billiton Two open-cut metallurgical coal mines in 80% BHP Billiton principal office locations Mitsui Coal the Bowen Basin, Central Queensland Ref Country Location Office 24 Australia Illawarra Coal Underground metallurgical coal mines in 100% southern New South Wales, with access 33 Australia Brisbane Coal Head Office to rail and port facilities 34 Australia Melbourne Global Headquarters 35 Australia Perth Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Head Office Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel Iron Ore Head Office Ref Country Asset Description Ownership 36 Australia Sydney Corporate Office 25 South Africa Aluminium Two aluminium smelters at Richards Bay 100% 37 Canada Saskatoon Potash Head Office South Africa 38 Chile Santiago Copper Head Office 26 Colombia Cerro Matoso Integrated laterite ferronickel mining and 99.9% 39 Malaysia Kuala Lumpur Global Shared Services Centre smelting complex in northern Colombia 40 Singapore Singapore Marketing Head Office 27 Australia Manganese Producer of manganese ore in the 60% Australia Northern Territory and manganese alloys 41 South Africa Johannesburg Corporate Office in Tasmania 42 UK London Corporate Office 43 US Houston Petroleum Head Office BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 5 1 Key information continued 1.3 Chairmans Review Dear Shareholder and hardship for vulnerable populations: the Royal Flying Doctor Services On the Road initiative for people living, working and In a volatile and uncertain year for global economies, I am travelling in remote areas of Western Australia: the socio-economic pleased to report that your Company continued to perform well.
component of our Black Economic Empowerment programs BHP Billiton reported an Attributable profit, excluding exceptional in South Africa.
items, of US$11.8 billion, and the full-year dividend was increased by four per cent to 116 US cents per share.
These solid financial Our community programs are in addition to the US$11.6 billion results were underpinned by strong operating performance and in taxes and royalties we paid to governments and our broader a key focus on productivity.
economic contribution in terms of jobs, capital investment and support of local businesses.
Over the last decade, industrialisation and urbanisation in emerging economies underpinned strong commodities consumption.
Looking ahead, we expect further volume growth at a lower unit We maintain a positive outlook over the long term as the cost as we continue to invest in our key commodities and major fundamentals of wealth creation, demographics and urbanisation basins that provide the foundations for shareholder value creation.
continue to create demand for commodities across Asia and We also announced a further US$2.6 billion investment in our other markets.
A growing population and improving incomes in emerging economies means the longer-term outlook Increased supply has, however, exerted downward pressure for potash, a fertiliser that improves the yield and quality of on many commodity markets more recently and we expect agricultural production, is strong.
Over many years, the Groups this trend to continue over the short term.
While lower rates strategy has delivered significant value for shareholders, and of investment across the industry will ultimately lead to more we can expect a more productive and capital efficient organisation balanced markets, all resources companies will need to improve to build on that track record.
productivity and be flexible enough to adapt to change in this more challenging environment.
This year, we also announced the retirement of Marius Kloppers and the appointment of Andrew Mackenzie as Chief Executive Against that backdrop, we will continue to focus on two constants Officer of BHP Billiton.
Marius made BHP Billiton a safer and that have guided us through our 150-year history.
The first is the financially stronger company, and we thank him for his leadership.
significance of what we do.
Rising living standards depend on Andrew brings a unique combination of deep industry knowledge economic growth, and we aim to safely, reliably and profitably and global management skills to the role, with more than supply the resources required to support economic growth.
30 years experience in the oil and gas, petrochemicals This helps improve the living standards of millions of people and minerals industries.
around the world every day.
The second is how we operate.
This is outlined in Our BHP Billiton Charter, which defines our Andrew and his new senior management team are off to a great values.
Health and safety always come first.
Together with our 128,800 employees and contractors in safety performance continued to improve, sadly, three colleagues more than 140 operations across the globe, they have delivered lost their lives at work.
On behalf of the Board, I offer our sincere the record production and substantial productivity gains that condolences to their families and friends.
These tragic incidents underpinned our robust financial results.
As the global economy highlight the importance of remaining focused on providing continues to strengthen, the talents and efforts of all our people a workplace where all of our people return home fit and well and our low-cost, upstream strategy and diversification ensure at the end of each day.
Your Board is confident in the outlook for BHP Billiton and we thank you for your continued support As part of Our Charter value of Sustainability, we strive to be of our Company.
an integral part of our communities, making a positive difference at the local, regional and national level.
We allocate one per cent of our pre-tax profits to community programs, which in 2013 was US$245.8 million.
These funds support community initiatives, such as the Colombia Resilience Project to alleviate poverty Jac Nasser AO Chairman 6 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 1.4 Chief Executive Officers Report I am honoured to deliver my first annual results as Chief Executive We continue to actively manage our portfolio and have increased Officer of BHP Billiton and report that our Companys enduring our focus on our major Businesses: Iron Ore, Petroleum, Copper strategy and high-quality, diversified portfolio delivered robust and Coal, which, together with Potash, provide optimum financial results in FY2013.
Divestments totalling US$6.5 billion were either announced or completed during FY2013, representing a premium Our results reflect record production and substantial productivity over average market valuations.
gains offset by lower commodity prices.
In FY2013, we achieved a thirteenth consecutive annual production record at Western We believe that to maintain our position as one of the worlds Australia Iron Ore and a 28 per cent increase in copper production leading companies, we must commit to high ethical business at Escondida, Chile.
In addition, liquids production at our Onshore practices and governance standards.
We are committed to US operations increased by 76 per cent and our Queensland Coal Our Charter value of Integrity, doing what is right and doing operations in Australia returned to full supply chain capacity what we say we will do.
This is evident in our anti-corruption during the period.
standards and the BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct, which prohibits bribery and corruption in all our business I took over the leadership of the Company in May from Marius dealings.
All our leaders have the responsibility for ensuring Kloppers to whom I am very grateful for his comprehensive the requirements of the Code of Business Conduct are embedded handover and leadership.
Soon after my appointment, changes across BHP Billiton.
were made to our Group Management Committee structure that effectively removed a layer of management and consolidated Sustainability and supporting our host communities is central our Businesses into five.
This is part of our continuing efforts to to Our Charter values.
In FY2013, our community contributions simplify the organisation and bring our strategic and operational amounted to US$245.8 million, and we continue to strive to leadership closer to attain our goal of becoming more productive have a long-lasting positive impact on the quality of life for and efficient than we are today.
people in our host communities.
Guided by Our BHP Billiton Charter and consistent strategy, our This is a challenging yet very rewarding time to be at the helm priorities in the near term are to protect our people and improve of the worlds leading diversified resources company.
We believe the health and safety of our operations, create a more productive our proven strategy, when combined with our great orebodies organisation, actively manage our portfolio, maintain a disciplined and operational focus on productivity, will deliver stronger approach to capital management and support sustainable margins throughout the economic cycle, a simpler and more development of our host communities.
capital efficient structure, a substantial increase in free cash flow and growth in shareholder value.
Sadly, during FY2013, three of our colleagues lost their lives at work.
Eliminating risk is a critical, I would like to thank all our people, suppliers, customers, host continual focus of everyone at BHP Billiton.
We continue to communities and shareholders for their continued support over improve the process for effective management of the critical the past year.
We could not achieve our success without all of controls of our material health and safety risks.
The hard-working, disciplined and talented people safety and wellbeing of our people is our primary responsibility.
at BHP Billiton are, and will always be, central to our ongoing In FY2013, our total recordable injury frequency was 4.6 per million success.
I look forward to leading you as we resource the future.
hours worked, a two per cent improvement on FY2012.
In the absence of higher commodity prices, we have sharpened our focus on the Companys productivity.
We continue to find ways of working smarter to obtain the most from our assets, orebodies, plant and machinery.
We aim to create the right culture and Andrew Mackenzie supporting processes for our people so they are engaged with Chief Executive Officer our Companys efforts to become more competitive.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 7 1 Key information continued This strategy means more predictable company performance 1.5 Our strategy and business model over time which, in turn, underpins the creation of long-term 1.5.
1 Our consistent strategy sustainable value for our shareholders, customers, employees and the communities in which we operate.
We aim to deliver long-term Our purpose sustainable value rather than being focused on short-term returns.
Our purpose is to create long-term shareholder value through the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing Our values of natural resources.
In pursuing our strategy through all stages of the economic and commodity cycle, we are guided by Our Charter values Our strategy of Sustainability: Integrity: Respect: Performance: Simplicity: Our strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, and Accountability.
expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography and market.
Our overriding commitment is ensuring the safety of our people, and respecting our environment and the communities in which we work.
We sell into globally integrated markets and aim to produce at This commitment informs everything we do and influences every full capacity throughout the economic cycle.
Our leading position aspect of our work.
in the resources industry is due to our unique, proven and consistent strategy.
In line with our strategy, we pursue growth opportunities Operational capability is fundamental to our strategy and is consistent with our core skills of: reflected in Our Charter.
In particular, our values of Performance evaluating, developing and extracting our resources achieving superior business results by stretching our capabilities, in our Businesses: and Simplicity focusing our efforts on the things that matter most.
distributing and selling our products, and managing financial Our success factors risk associated with the revenue line through Marketing: We are successful when our people start each day with a sense through our Group Functions, defining and governing world-class of purpose and end the day with a sense of accomplishment: functional standards, which are implemented Group-wide.
our communities, customers and suppliers value their relationships with us: our asset portfolio is world-class and sustainably developed: our operational discipline and financial strength enables our future growth: and our shareholders receive a superior return on their investment.
2 Our business model Exploration and evaluation Development discovery through brownfield evaluating and developing projects and greenfield exploring acquiring and divesting evaluating our portfolio Over the past five years, brownfield exploration has The evaluation and development of large-scale resource increased our resource base around our portfolio of projects generates significant value for BHP Billiton.
existing assets in large resource basins, which now We have a number of high-quality growth projects provides us with significant growth opportunities.
We also have a large number This has allowed us to reduce brownfield exploration of growth opportunities in our project pipeline in varying expenditure and rationalise our greenfield exploration stages of evaluation.
In our development process, these program to focus on copper in Chile and Peru projects progress through feasibility to execution only and conventional oil and gas predominantly after external approvals and rigorous internal review.
in the Gulf of Mexico and Western Australia.
Potential expansion projects must compete for capital We evaluate the results of our brownfield and greenfield in BHP Billiton and are only approved if they meet our exploration to identify future growth projects consistent strict criteria for investment.
with our strategy to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets.
We also continually evaluate our portfolio and consider acquisition and divestment opportunities.
8 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 1.5.
3 External factors and trends Commodity prices Global economy During FY2013, commodity markets were impacted by a slower pace of growth in China that was balanced in part by increased stability Economic conditions during the second half of FY2013 were affected in European sovereign debt markets and an improved private sector by lower than expected growth in emerging economies.
Weaker performance in the United States.
In the case of most steelmaking trade and soft manufacturing activity pulled growth rates slightly raw materials, demand growth rates outside China decreased, below expectations in China.
However, with employment conditions and combined with robust supply growth from seaborne sources, and income growth remaining resilient, the Chinese Government resulted in lower raw material prices than the previous year.
has room to pursue reforms that support its agenda of stable, The metals commodities attracted lower prices than the previous long-term growth.
year as a result of supply growing faster than demand.
Conversely Significant cuts in government spending affected growth in the for energy commodities, geopolitical tensions and United States United States, however this was offset by improved private sector economic improvements provided price support for crude oil, demand, leading to modest rates of economic growth overall.
while the US gas prices increased due to increased seasonal Housing and stock market prices have also strengthened household demand in the residential and commercial sector and decreased balance sheets over the past year.
As a result, we are confident storage inventories from the previous year.
the recovery will continue, although risks remain regarding the Exchange rates unwinding of monetary policy stimulus.
We are exposed to movements in exchange rates in relation to The renewed policy push in Japan is also positive for medium-term foreign currency sales and purchases as well as in relation to foreign growth expectations, if the government can achieve its stated currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities, including objectives.
Europe remained relatively stable during FY2013: debt.
We believe that active currency hedging does not provide however, we do not anticipate a strong or rapid recovery while long-term benefits to our shareholders.
Because a majority of fundamental structural problems remain.
our sales are denominated in US dollars, and the US dollar plays Overall, we expect more balanced global growth over the long term an important role in our organisation, we borrow and hold surplus as China continues to develop its economy and large developed cash predominantly in US dollars to provide a natural hedge.
economies, such as the United States, grow despite fiscal challenges.
Operating costs and costs of locally sourced equipment are influenced We expect the rebalancing of the Chinese economy to be significant by fluctuations in local currencies, primarily the Australian dollar, in terms of the nature of domestic demand, as well as the types Brazilian real, Chilean peso and South African rand.
Foreign exchange of goods and services the economy will produce.
We expect these gains and losses reflected in operating costs owing to fluctuations changes to take place gradually, particularly in relation to savings in the local currencies relative to the US dollar may potentially behaviour and levels of fixed asset investment.
We also see India offset one another.
In addition, exchange rate markets often and South East Asia as significant sources of economic growth provide a theoretical natural hedge against movements in commodity in the long term.
Volatility increased during the year, with a strengthening of the US dollar in the last quarter of FY2013.
Overall, the Australian dollar, Brazilian real and South African rand ended FY2013 weaker against the US dollar, while the Chilean peso strengthened.
Extraction, processing and transportation Marketing and logistics open-pit and underground mining selling our products extracting conventional and purchasing major raw materials unconventional oil and gas managing the supply chain processing and refining managing credit and price risk Across our global operations, the diversification of In order to develop customer and market-focused our portfolio of assets by commodity, geography and solutions, we have divided our marketing organisation market continues to be one of our differentiating between mineral marketing, centralised in Singapore and features.
Our goal is to safely operate all of our assets petroleum product marketing, based in Houston, United at capacity through mining, extracting, processing States.
Marketing manages the Groups product sales and and transporting commodities.
the purchase of all major raw materials.
It achieves market clearing prices for our products and is responsible for We continue to set production records at a managing our credit and price risks.
Through the development and use of standard operating practices and technology, Marketing also manages the supply chain of our products we are driving efficiencies through improved capital from assets to markets and the raw materials from intensity, labour productivity and increased utilisation suppliers to assets.
This includes managing our in-house of plant and machinery.
freight requirements so as to procure high-quality, cost-effective shipping.
Our extraction and processing activities apply our ongoing sustainability obligations, including rehabilitation at the end of the asset life.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 9 1 Key information continued 1.5.
4 Our strategic priorities Active management of our portfolio Our senior management team has sharpened its focus on the We have concentrated our efforts on those world-class basins where we enjoy economies of scale and a competitive advantage.
following strategic priorities in order to execute the Companys strategy and deliver sustainable improvement in productivity.
Our focus on four major Businesses of Iron Ore, Petroleum, Copper and Coal, together with Potash, provide optimum diversification.
Protect our people and improve the health and safety of our operations Of the 18 major projects in execution at 30 June 2013, approximately 70 per cent are expected to deliver first production by the end The health, safety and wellbeing of our people are central to of CY2014.
The majority of our development projects are brownfield the success of our organisation.
Regardless of where our people in nature, which are inherently lower risk.
are located or the type of work they undertake, we strive to create a working environment that is free from occupational illness or We executed a targeted divestment program, with major transactions injury.
Identifying and managing material risk is a critical component totalling US$6.5 billion announced or completed during the period.
By understanding and managing In these transactions: our risks, we provide greater protection for our people, communities we sold our diamonds business, comprising our interests in and assets.
the EKATI Diamond Mine and Diamonds Marketing operations, to Dominion Diamond Corporation formerly Harry Winston Create a more productive organisation Diamond Corporation : We continue to simplify our business in order to become more productive and a more capital efficient organisation.
We recently we sold our non-operating interest in South African-based Richards Bay Minerals to Rio Tinto: implemented a new organisational structure and we removed a layer of management to create a direct line of communication we sold our Yeelirrie uranium deposit in Western Australia between the Chief Executive Officer and our Businesses.
to Cameco Corporation: we announced the sale of Pinto Valley mining operation We are pursuing productivity improvements to sustain our and the associated San Manuel Arizona Railroad Company competitiveness and capitalise on growth opportunities.
We view to Capstone Mining Corp: productivity as a way of operating that maximises the value for we sold our interest in the East and West Browse Petroleum our shareholders, of our people, capital and assets.
The inputs to productivity are capital intensity, labour productivity and the joint ventures located offshore Western Australia to PetroChina International Investment Australia Pty Ltd: utilisation of our plant and machinery.
The outputs of productivity are unit revenues and costs that give us a superior margin.
we extended our Western Australia Iron Ore WAIO long-term joint venture relationship with ITOCHU and Mitsui to include Productivity will be enabled by our people being engaged in our Jimblebar.
This was completed in July 2013 and aligns our drive to become more competitive by having our plant and machinery interests across the WAIO supply chain, as well as driving assets work harder and our people work smarter.
We seek to have simplicity and flexibility.
a culture that fosters productivity and to make sure our people have the right skills and approach to do their jobs better each day.
1 Forecast capital expenditure for FY2014 and FY2015 for continuing operations Saskatchewan Potash Onshore US Oil and Gas Gulf of Mexico Oil and Gas WAIO Queensland Coal Iron Ore Metallurgical Coal Escondida Petroleum and Potash Copper Copper Iron Ore Coal Aluminium, Manganese and Nickel 1 Bubble size illustrates the level of combined forecast capital expenditure excluding Pinto Valley.
10 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report Supporting local and regional business At a community level, in Australia, the BMA Local Buying Program has been designed to assist small local businesses As a large global organisation, we have the capacity to help to engage in the competitive supply of goods and services to local and regional businesses grow and to foster the long-term BMA.
The program framework focuses on providing commercial development of suppliers in our host communities.
We aim to opportunities, as well as programs to build local supplier make a broad economic contribution through building the capability in such areas as business planning, human resource capacity of local and regional businesses and entrepreneurs.
Our local procurement plans enhance the opportunity for In South Africa, small-sized and medium-sized businesses are economic participation of locally based small-to-medium integral to social and economic growth.
In conjunction with enterprises in our Businesses, by bridging the gap between their Raizcorp, a business incubation specialist, we are helping capacity and our supply requirements.
This support assists in to boost entrepreneurial activities by providing mentoring, creating long-term benefits by contributing to the livelihoods resources and skills development to assist businesses with of people in host communities and, in doing so, enhances our growth, profitability, financial independence and accessing licence to operate.
On a national scale, in Chile, we have designed the Cluster Program for the Development of World-Class Suppliers to develop new solutions to the operational and environmental challenges faced by our Chilean operations.
An operational review and temporary cessation of production The combination of a disciplined approach to capital expenditure at our BMA open-cut Gregory metallurgical coal mine in and the continued success of the divestment program has Queensland, Australia, also took place in FY2013.
We continue strengthened the financial position of the Company.
This financial to evaluate the performance of all of our operations.
strength has allowed for a reduction in gearing in the second half of FY2013 and continued commitment to maintain a solid A credit For further information on these events, refer to section 5.3 rating.
In addition, this approach underpins our progressive dividend of this Annual Report.
policy, which has been demonstrated by an increase of the dividend Disciplined approach to capital management for FY2013 to 116 US cents per share, a four per cent increase The Groups priorities for capital management remain unchanged: year on year.
firstly, to invest in high-return growth opportunities throughout the Support sustainable development of our host communities economic cycle: secondly, to maintain a solid A credit rating and The long-term nature of our operations allows us to establish to grow our progressive dividend: and finally, to return excess capital long-term relationships with our host communities.
We aim to to shareholders.
make a positive contribution to the lives of people who live near We have announced a reduction in capital and exploration our operations and to society more generally.
expenditure from US$21.7 billion in FY2013 to US$16.2 billion in As part of this commitment, we voluntarily invest one per cent FY2014 excluding deferred stripping.
By reducing annual capital of our pre-tax profit, calculated on the average of the previous expenditure and increasing competition for capital within the Group, three years pre-tax profit, in community programs that aim to we expect to achieve more sustainable, high margin growth at a have a long-lasting, positive impact on the quality of life for people higher average rate of return on incremental investment.
This includes implementing new and supporting existing community projects.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 11 1 Key information continued 1.6 Selected key measures 1.6.
1 Our results at a glance Underlying EBIT declined by 22 per cent, or US$6.1 billion, We extended our strong track record of operating to US$21.1 billion, with lower commodity prices reducing performance with production records achieved across Underlying EBIT by US$8.9 billion, partially offset by seven operations and five commodities.
increased sales volumes and reduced operating costs.
A targeted divestment program continues, with major Consistently strong operating performance across the transactions totalling US$6.5 billion announced or Group contributed to a US$1.8 billion volume related completed during FY2013.
Exceptional items of Safety performance continued to improve as the US$922 million after tax contributed to the 29 per cent Groups total recordable injury frequency TRIF declined decrease in Attributable profit to US$10.9 billion.
to a record low of 4.6 per million hours worked.
Despite The total dividend for FY2013 increased by four per cent this steady improvement in safety performance, to 116 US cents per share.
three of our colleagues lost their lives at work.
Our effort to reduce operating costs and drive productivity improvements has realised a reduction in controllable cash costsof US$2.7 billion, excluding one-off items.
Underlying EBIT Attributable profit Dividends declared Community contributions at 30 June excluding exceptional items US$11.8 billion US$21.1 billion US$6.2 billion US$245.8 million US$ million US$ million US$ million US$ million 35,000 25,000 7,000 250 30,000 6,000 20,000 200 5,000 25,000 15,000 150 20,000 4,000 15,000 3,000 10,000 100 2,000 10,000 5,000 50 5,000 1,000 0 0 0 0 BHP Billiton Foundation BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities Expenditure less BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities and BHP Billiton Foundation 1.6.
2 Operational information Our Board and Group Management Committee GMC monitor a range of financial and operational performance indicators, reported on a monthly basis, to measure performance over time.
We also monitor a comprehensive set of health, safety, environment and community HSEC contribution indicators.
2013 2012 2011 Health, safety, environment and community Total recordable injury frequency TRIF 4.6 4.7 5.0 Community investment US$M 245.8 214.1 195.5 1 Production Total Petroleum production million barrels of oil equivalent 235.8 222.3 159.4 Copper cathode and concentrate 000 tonnes 1,209.4 1,094.5 1,139.4 Iron ore 000 tonnes 169,856 159,478 134,406 Metallurgical coal 000 tonnes 37,650 33,230 32,678 Energy coal 000 tonnes 72,892 71,111 69,500 Alumina 000 tonnes 4,880 4,152 4,010 Aluminium 000 tonnes 1,179 1,153 1,246 Manganese ores 000 tonnes 8,517 7,931 7,093 Manganese alloys 000 tonnes 608 602 753 Nickel 000 tonnes 154.1 157.9 152.7 1 Further details on production appear in section 2.3 of this Annual Report.
12 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 1.6.
3 Financial information Our selected financial information reflects the operations of the BHP Billiton Group, and should be read in conjunction with the FY2013 financial statements, together with the accompanying notes.
We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, and as outlined in note 1 Accounting policies to the financial statements in this Annual Report.
We publish our consolidated financial statements in US dollars.
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Consolidated Income Statement US$M except per share data Revenue 65,968 72,226 71,739 52,798 50,211 Profit from operations 19,225 23,752 31,816 20,031 12,160 Profit attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group 10,876 15,417 23,648 12,722 5,877 Dividends per ordinary share paid during the period US cents 114.0 110.0 91.0 83.0 82.0 Dividends per ordinary share declared in respect of the period US cents 116.0 112.0 101.0 87.0 82.0 1 Earnings per ordinary share basic US cents 204.4 289.6 429.1 228.6 105.6 1 Earnings per ordinary share diluted US cents 203.7 288.4 426.9 227.8 105.4 Number of ordinary shares millions At period end 5,348 5,348 5,350 5,589 5,589 Weighted average 5,322 5,323 5,511 5,565 5,565 Diluted 5,340 5,346 5,540 5,595 5,598 Consolidated Balance Sheet US$M Total assets 138,109 129,273 102,920 88,852 78,770 Share capital including share premium 2,773 2,773 2,771 2,861 2,861 Total equity attributable to members of BHP Billiton Group 70,664 65,870 56,762 48,525 39,954 Other financial information 2 Underlying EBIT US$M 21,127 27,238 31,980 19,719 18,214 3 4 Underlying EBIT margin 33.2% 39.4% 47.0% 40.7% 40.1% 4 Return on capital employed 13.5% 23.0% 38.5% 26.4% 24.6% 5 Net operating cash flow US$M 18,252 24,384 30,080 16,890 17,854 Project investment US$M 21,183 22,791 24,517 10,770 13,965 Gearing 28.8% 26.0% 9.2% 6.3% 12.1% 1 The calculation of the number of ordinary shares used in the computation of basic earnings per share is the aggregate of the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc after deduction of the weighted average number of shares held by the Billiton share repurchase scheme and the Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust and the BHP Bonus Equity Plan Trust and adjusting for the BHP Billiton Limited bonus share issue.
Included in the calculation of fully diluted earnings per share are shares contingently issuable under Employee Share Ownership Plans.
2 Underlying EBIT is earnings before net finance costs, taxation and any exceptional items.
Underlying EBIT is not an IFRS measure of profitability, financial performance, or liquidity and may be defined and used in differing ways by different entities.
Underlying EBIT is included in the FY2013 Consolidated Financial Statements as required by IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
We believe that Underlying EBIT provides useful information, but should not be considered as an indication of, or alternative to, Attributable profit as an indicator of operating performance.
2 for more information about this measure, including a reconciliation to profit from operations.
3 Underlying EBIT margin excludes third party product.
4 Underlying EBIT margin and Return on capital employed are non-IFRS measures.
We believe that Underlying EBIT margin and Return on capital employed provide useful information, but should not be considered as an indication of, or alternative to, Attributable profit as an indicator of operating performance.
See section 3.3 for more information about this measure.
5 On 1 July 2010, the Group adopted the policy of classifying exploration cash flows which are not recognised as assets as Net operating cash flows.
Previously such cash flows were classified as net investing cash flows.
The change in policy arose from amendments to IAS7 AASB7 Cash Flows.
Comparative figures have been restated.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 13 1 Key information continued In response to its increased demand for commodities, China is 1.7 Our management of risk increasingly seeking strategic self-sufficiency in key commodities, 1.7.
1 Risk factors including investments in existing businesses or new developments in other countries.
These investments may adversely impact future We believe that because of the international scope of our operations and the industries in which we are engaged, there are numerous commodity demand and supply balances and prices.
factors that may have an effect on our results and operations.
Actions by governments or political events in the countries in The following describes the material risks that could affect the which we operate could have a negative impact on our business BHP Billiton Group.
We have operations in many countries around the globe, which have External risks varying degrees of political and commercial stability.
We operate in emerging markets, which may involve additional risks that Fluctuations in commodity prices and impacts of ongoing global economic volatility may negatively affect our results, including could have an adverse impact upon the profitability of an operation.
These risks could include terrorism, civil unrest, nationalisation, cash flows and asset values renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, leases, permits or The prices we obtain for our oil, gas and minerals are determined other agreements, restrictions on repatriation of earnings or capital by, or linked to, prices in world markets, which have historically and changes in laws and policy, as well as other unforeseeable risks.
been subject to substantial volatility.
Our usual policy is to sell our Risks relating to bribery and corruption, including possible delays products at the prevailing market prices.
The diversity provided by or disruption resulting from a refusal to make so-called facilitation our relatively broad portfolio of commodities does not insulate the payments, may be prevalent in some of the countries in which we effects of price changes.
Fluctuations in commodity prices can occur operate.
If any of our major operations are affected by one or more due to sustained price shifts reflecting underlying global economic of these risks, it could have a negative effect on the operations and geopolitical factors, industry demand and supply balances, in those countries, as well as the Groups overall operating results product substitution and national tariffs.
summaries of pricing trends for our most significant commodities.
The ongoing global economic volatility has negatively affected Our operations are based on material long-term investments that commodity market prices and demand.
The ongoing uncertainty are dependent on long-term fiscal stability and could be adversely and impact on global economic growth, particularly in the developed impacted by changes in fiscal legislation.
The mining industry has economies, may continue to adversely affect future demand and been identified as a source of tax revenue and can also be impacted prices for commodities.
The impact of potential longer-term sustained by broader fiscal measures applying to business generally.
price shifts and shorter-term price volatility, including the effects Our business could be adversely affected by new government of unwinding the sustained monetary stimulus in the United States, regulations, such as controls on imports, exports and prices.
creates the risk that our financial and operating results, including Increasing requirements relating to regulatory, environmental cash flows and asset values, will be materially and adversely affected and social approvals can potentially result in significant delays in by unforeseen declines in the prevailing prices of our products.
construction and may adversely affect the economics of new mining Our financial results may be negatively affected by currency and oil and gas projects, the expansion of existing operations and exchange rate fluctuations results of our operations.
We have oil and gas operations located Our assets, earnings and cash flows are influenced by a wide variety in the Gulf of Mexico region of the United States.
A six-month of currencies due to the geographic diversity of the countries in moratorium on drilling was issued in June 2010 following the which we operate.
Fluctuations in the exchange rates of those Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
Even though the moratorium has been currencies may have a significant impact on our financial results.
lifted, the industry now faces more stringent permitting requirements.
The US dollar is the currency in which the majority of our sales Delays or additional costs may occur in receiving future permits are denominated.
Operating costs are influenced by the currencies for deepwater drilling activities in the Gulf of Mexico.
of those countries where our mines and processing plants are Infrastructure, such as rail, ports, power and water, is critical to our located and also by those currencies in which the costs of imported business operations.
We have operations or potential development equipment and services are determined.
The Australian dollar, projects in countries where government provided infrastructure or South African rand, Chilean peso, Brazilian real and US dollar regulatory regimes for access to infrastructure, including our own are the most important currencies influencing our operating costs.
privately operated infrastructure, may be inadequate or uncertain Over recent years, the level of exchange of currencies in which or subject to legislative change.
These may adversely impact the the majority of our operating costs are incurred in particular the efficient operations and expansion of our Businesses.
Australian dollar, if sustained relative to US dollar denominated commodity prices has and may continue to adversely impact our We operate in several countries where ownership of land is profit margins.
Given the dominant role of the US currency in our uncertain and where disputes may arise in relation to ownership.
affairs, the US dollar is the currency in which we present financial In Australia, the Native Title Act 1993 provides for the establishment performance.
We do not generally believe that active currency and recognition of native title under certain circumstances.
hedging provides long-term benefits to our shareholders.
From time In South Africa, the Extension of Security of Tenure Act 1997 to time, we consider currency protection measures appropriate in and the Restitution of Land Rights Act 1994 provide for various specific commercial circumstances, subject to strict limits established landholding rights.
Such legislation could negatively affect new by our Board.
Therefore, in any particular year, our financial results or existing projects.
may be negatively affected by currency exchange rate fluctuations.
These regulations are complex, difficult to predict and outside Reduction in Chinese demand may negatively impact our results of our control and could negatively affect our Company and results.
The Chinese market has been driving global materials demand Business risks and pricing over the past decade.
Sales into China generated Failure to discover new reserves, maintain or enhance existing US$19.4 billion FY2012: US$21.6 billion, or 29.4 per cent reserves or develop new operations could negatively affect FY2012: 29.9 per cent, of our revenue in the year ended 30 June our future results and financial condition 2013.
The FY2013 sales into China by Business included 58.8 per cent The demand for our products and production from our operations Iron Ore, 19.4 per cent Copper, 8.4 per cent Coal and 4.5 per cent results in existing reserves being depleted over time.
A slowing in Chinas economic growth could result in and profits are derived from our oil and gas and minerals operations, lower prices and demand for our products and negatively impact our results and financial condition are directly related to the success our results including cash flows.
of our exploration and acquisition efforts, and our ability to replace existing reserves.
Exploration activity occurs adjacent to established operations and in new regions, in developed and less developed countries.
These activities may increase land tenure, infrastructure and related political risks.
A failure in our ability to discover new 14 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 1.7.
1 Risk factors continued The commercial counterparties we transact with may not meet their obligations which may negatively impact our results reserves, enhance existing reserves or develop new operations We contract with a large number of commercial and financial in sufficient quantities to maintain or grow the current level of our reserves could negatively affect our results, financial condition counterparties, including customers, suppliers and financial institutions.
The ongoing global economic volatility has placed and prospects.
strains on global financial markets, reduced liquidity and adversely Future deterioration in commodities pricing may make drilling affected business conditions generally.
We maintain a one book some acreage and existing reserves uneconomic.
Our actual approach with commercial counterparties to ensure that all credit drilling activities and future drilling budget will depend on drilling exposures are quantified.
Our existing counterparty credit controls results, commodity prices, drilling and production costs, availability may not prevent a material loss due to credit exposure to a major of drilling services and equipment, lease expirations, gathering customer or financial counterparty.
In addition, customers, suppliers, systems, transportation pipelines and other infrastructure constraints, contractors or joint venture partners may fail to perform against regulatory approvals and other factors.
Non-supply of key inputs, such There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating ore as tyres, mining and mobile equipment and other key consumables, and oil and gas reserves, and geological, technical and economic may unfavourably impact costs and production at our operations.
assumptions that are valid at the time of estimation may change These factors could negatively affect our financial condition and significantly when new information becomes available.
The uncertain results of operations.
global financial outlook may affect economic assumptions related Operational risks to reserve recovery and require reserve restatements.
Reserve Cost pressures and reduced productivity could negatively restatements could negatively affect our results and prospects.
impact our operating margins and expansion plans Potential changes to our portfolio of assets through Cost pressures may continue to occur across the resources acquisitions and divestments may have a material adverse industry.
As the prices for our products are determined by the effect on our future results and financial condition global commodity markets in which we operate, we do not generally We regularly review the composition of our asset portfolio and have the ability to offset these cost pressures through corresponding from time to time may add assets to the portfolio or divest assets price increases, which can adversely affect our operating margins.
There are a number of risks associated with Notwithstanding our efforts to reduce costs and a number of key such divestments or acquisitions.
These include adverse market cost inputs being commodity price-linked, the inability to reduce reaction to such changes or the timing or terms on which such costs and a timing lag may adversely impact our operating margins changes are made, the imposition of adverse regulatory conditions for an extended period.
and obligations, commercial objectives not being achieved as Our Australian-based operations may continue to be affected by expected, unforeseen liabilities arising from such changes to the Australian Fair Work Act 2009 as labour agreements expire and the portfolio, sales revenues and operational performance not businesses are required to collectively bargain with unions.
In some meeting our expectations, anticipated synergies or cost savings instances labour unions are pursuing wage claims in the bargaining being delayed or not being achieved, inability to retain key process, and or claims about union access and involvement in staff and transaction-related costs being more than anticipated.
These claims may adversely affect These factors could negatively affect our reputation, future workplace flexibility, productivity and costs.
Industrial action results and financial condition.
in pursuit of claims associated with the bargaining process has Increased costs and schedule delays may adversely occurred in some Businesses, and is likely to continue to occur affect our development projects as unions press for new claims as part of the bargaining process.
Although we devote significant time and resources to our project A number of our operations, such as aluminium and copper, are planning, approval and review process, many of our development energy or water intensive and, as a result, the Groups costs and projects are highly complex and rely on factors that are outside earnings could be adversely affected by rising costs or by supply our control, which may cause us to underestimate the cost or time interruptions.
These could include the unavailability of energy, required to complete a project.
In addition, we may fail to manage fuel or water due to a variety of reasons, including fluctuations projects as effectively as we anticipate and unforeseen challenges in climate, significant increases in costs, inadequate infrastructure may emerge.
capacity, interruptions in supply due to equipment failure Any of these may result in increased capital costs and schedule or other causes and the inability to extend supply contracts delays at our development projects, adversely affecting our on economical terms.
development projects and impacting anticipated financial returns.
These factors could lead to increased operating costs at existing Financial risks operations and could negatively impact our operating margins and expansion plans.
If our liquidity and cash flow deteriorate significantly it could adversely affect our ability to fund our major capital programs Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes may We seek to maintain a solid A credit rating as part of our strategy: adversely impact our operations however, fluctuations in commodity prices and the ongoing global We operate extractive, processing and logistical operations in economic volatility may continue to adversely impact our future many geographic locations both onshore and offshore.
Our key cash flows and ability to access capital from financial markets at port facilities are located at Port Hedland and Hay Point in Australia.
If our key financial ratios and solid A credit We have 12 underground mines, including seven underground coal rating are not maintained, our liquidity and cash reserves, interest mines.
Our operational processes may be subject to operational rate costs on borrowed debt, future access to financial capital accidents such as port and shipping incidents, underground markets and the ability to fund current and future major capital mine and processing plant fire and explosion, open-cut pit wall programs could be adversely affected.
failures, loss of power supply, railroad incidents, loss of well We may not recover our investments in mining, oil and gas control, environmental pollution and mechanical critical equipment failures.
Our operations may also be subject to unexpected assets, which may require financial write-downs natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, flood, hurricanes and One or more of our assets may be impacted by changed market tsunamis.
Our northwest Western Australia iron ore, Queensland or industry structures, commodity prices, technical operating coal and Gulf of Mexico oil and gas operations are located in areas difficulties, inability to recover our mineral, oil or gas reserves subject to cyclones or hurricanes.
Our Chilean copper operations and increased operating cost levels.
These may cause us to fail are located in a known earthquake and tsunami zone.
Based on to recover all or a portion of our investment in mining and oil our claims, insurance premiums and loss experience, our risk and gas assets and may require financial write-downs adversely management approach is not to purchase insurance for property impacting our financial results.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 15 1 Key information continued 1.7.
1 Risk factors continued Community damage, business interruption and construction-related risk and We contribute to the communities in which we operate by providing skilled employment opportunities, salaries and wages, taxes and primary liability exposures.
Existing business continuity plans may not provide protection for all of the costs that arise from royalties and community development programs, including a commitment to one per cent of pre-tax profits invested in community such events.
The impact of these events could lead to disruptions in production, increased costs and loss of facilities more than programs.
Notwithstanding these actions, local communities may become dissatisfied with the impact of our operations or oppose offsetting premiums saved, which would adversely affect our financial results and prospects.
Third party claims arising from our new development projects, including through litigation, potentially affecting costs and production, and in extreme cases these events may exceed the limit of liability insurance policies we have in place.
Community related risks may include community protests or civil unrest, delays to proposed developments and inadvertent Our non-controlled assets may not comply with our standards breaches of human rights or other international laws or conventions.
Some of our assets are controlled and managed by joint venture Health partners or by other companies.
Management of our non-controlled assets may not comply with our management and operating Health risks faced include fatigue and occupational exposure to standards, controls and procedures, including our health, safety, noise, silica, manganese, diesel exhaust particulate, fluorides, coal environment and community HSEC standards.
Failure to adopt tar pitch, nickel and sulphuric acid mist.
Longer-term health impacts equivalent standards, controls and procedures at these assets could may arise due to unanticipated workplace exposures or historical lead to higher costs and reduced production and adversely impact exposures of our workforce to hazardous substances.
These effects our results and reputation.
may create future financial compensation obligations.
Breaches in our information technology security processes We invest in workplace and community health programs, where indicated by risk assessment.
However, infectious diseases such may adversely impact the conduct of our business activities as HIV and malaria may have a material adverse impact upon We maintain global information technology IT infrastructure, our workers or on our communities, primarily in Africa.
Because applications and communications networks to support our business we operate globally, we may be affected by potential pandemic activities.
These systems could be subject to security breaches influenza outbreaks, such as A H1N1 and avian flu, in any of resulting in theft, disclosure or corruption of information, including the regions in which we operate.
information relating to acquisitions and divestments, strategic decision-making, investment market communications or HSEC legislation commercially sensitive information relating to major contracts.
The nature of the industries in which we operate means that Security breaches could also result in misappropriation of funds many of our activities are highly regulated by health, safety and or disruptions to our business operations.
As regulatory standards and expectations Sustainability risks are constantly developing, we may be exposed to increased litigation, compliance costs and unforeseen environmental HSEC impacts, incidents or accidents and related regulations rehabilitation expenses.
may adversely affect our people, operations and reputation or licence to operate Legislation requiring manufacturers, importers and downstream Safety users of chemical substances, including metals and minerals, Potential safety events that may have a material adverse impact to establish that the substances can be used without negatively affecting health or the environment may impact our operations on our operations include fire, explosion or rock fall incidents in underground mining operations, personnel conveyance equipment and markets.
These potential compliance costs, litigation expenses, regulatory delays, rehabilitation expenses and operational costs failures in underground operations, aircraft incidents, incidents involving light vehicles and mining mobile equipment, ground could negatively affect our financial results.
control failures, well blowouts, explosions or gas leaks, isolation Hydraulic fracturing and working from heights or lifting operations.
Our Onshore US operations involve hydraulic fracturing, an essential Environment and common practice in the oil and gas industry to stimulate production of natural gas and oil from dense subsurface rock Environmental incidents that have the potential to create a material impact include uncontrolled tailings containment formations.
Hydraulic fracturing involves using water, sand and a small amount of chemicals to fracture the hydrocarbon-bearing breaches, subsidence from mining activities, escape of polluting substances and uncontrolled releases of hydrocarbons.
rock formation, to allow flow of hydrocarbons into the wellbore.
We routinely apply hydraulic fracturing techniques in our drilling Our operations by their nature have the potential to impact and completion programs.
biodiversity, water resources and related ecosystem services.
Changes in scientific understanding of these impacts, regulatory Attention given to the hydraulic fracturing process could lead to greater opposition to oil and gas production activities using requirements or stakeholder expectations may prevent or delay project approvals and result in increased costs for mitigation, hydraulic fracturing techniques.
Increased regulation could impose more stringent permitting, public disclosure and well construction offsets or compensatory actions.
requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations.
The hydraulic We provide for operational closure and site rehabilitation.
fracturing process is typically regulated by relevant state regulatory Our operating and closed facilities are required to have closure bodies.
Some states in the United States are considering changes plans.
Changes in regulatory or community expectations may to regulations in relation to permitting, public disclosure and or result in the relevant plans not being adequate.
This may impact well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing and related financial provisioning and costs at the affected operations.
Arkansas, Louisiana and Texas have adopted various laws, regulations or issued regulatory guidance concerning hydraulic fracturing.
16 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 1.7.
1 Risk factors continued A breach of our governance processes may lead to regulatory penalties and loss of reputation Several US federal agencies are reviewing or advancing regulatory We operate in a global environment straddling multiple jurisdictions proposals concerning hydraulic fracturing and related operations.
The US Environmental Protection Agency EPA commenced a study and complex regulatory frameworks.
Our governance and compliance processes, which include the review of internal control of the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing activities on drinking water resources and issued a non-determinative Progress Report in over financial reporting and specific internal controls in relation to offers of things of value to government officials and representatives December 2012.
The EPA is expected to issue a final report for peer review in CY2014.
The US Bureau of Land Management BLM issued of state-owned enterprises, may not prevent future potential breaches of law, accounting or governance practice.
The BHP Billiton a revised proposed rule that would impose new requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations conducted on federal lands, including Code of Business Conduct, together with our mandatory policies, such as the anti-corruption and the competition policies, may not the disclosure of chemical additives used.
Activity at the federal level, including the ongoing EPA study, BLM rules and other analysis prevent instances of fraudulent behaviour and dishonesty nor guarantee compliance with legal or regulatory requirements.
by federal and state agencies to assess the impacts of hydraulic fracturing could spur additional legislative or regulatory actions.
This may lead to regulatory fines, disgorgement of profits, litigation, loss of operating licences or reputational damage.
While we have not yet realised a material delay or substantially higher operating costs as a result of current regulatory requirements 1.7.
2 Approach to risk management in our Onshore US operations, we cannot predict whether additional We believe that the identification and management of risk is federal, state or local laws or regulations will be enacted and what central to achieving our corporate purpose of creating long-term such actions would require or prohibit.
Additional legislation or shareholder value.
regulation could subject our operations to delays and increased Risk will manifest itself in many forms and has the potential to costs, or prohibit certain activities, which could adversely affect impact our health and safety, environment, community, reputation, the financial performance of our Onshore US operations.
regulatory, market and financial performance and, thereby, the achievement of our corporate purpose.
Due to the nature of our operations, HSEC incidents or accidents and related regulations may adversely affect our reputation By understanding and managing risk, we provide greater certainty or licence to operate.
and confidence for our shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, and for the communities in which we operate.
Successful Climate change and greenhouse effects may adversely risk management can be a source of competitive advantage.
impact our operations and markets Carbon-based energy is a significant input in a number of the Our risks are managed on an enterprise-wide basis.
The natural Groups mining and processing operations and we have significant diversification in our portfolio of commodities, geographies, sales of carbon-based energy products.
currencies, assets and liabilities is a key element in our risk management approach.
A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are contemplating regulatory change in response to the impacts Risk management is embedded in our critical business activities, of climate change.
Under the December 2009 Copenhagen Accord, functions and processes.
Materiality and our tolerance for risk developed countries established individual greenhouse gas targets are key considerations in our decision-making.
and developing countries established national mitigation actions.
Risk issues are identified, analysed and assessed in a consistent The European Union Emissions Trading System EU ETS, which came manner.
Performance requirements exist for the identification, into effect on 1 January 2005, has had an impact on greenhouse assessment, control and monitoring of material risk issues that gas and energy-intensive businesses based in the EU.
Our Petroleum could threaten our corporate purpose and business plans.
Assets in the United Kingdom are currently subject to the EU ETS, These include: as are our EU-based customers.
Elsewhere, there is current and The potential for impacts on the achievement of our corporate emerging climate change regulation that will affect energy prices, purpose and business plans is identified through risk assessments demand and margins for carbon-intensive products.
The Australian using approved materiality and tolerability criteria.
The severity Governments response has included the introduction in 2001 of a of any risk event is assessed according to a matrix that describes renewable energy target of 20 per cent by the year 2020, and a carbon the degree of harm, injury or loss from the most severe impact pricing scheme which commenced with a fixed price on 1 July 2012. associated with that risk event, assuming reasonable effectiveness From a medium to long-term perspective, we are likely to see some of controls.
changes in the cost position of our greenhouse gas-intensive assets A risk assessment risk identification, risk analysis and and energy-intensive assets as a result of regulatory impacts in the risk evaluation is conducted for material risk issues.
These proposed regulatory mechanisms may impact our operations directly or indirectly through our suppliers Risk controls are designed, implemented, operated and assessed to produce a residual risk that is tolerable.
Inconsistency of regulations, particularly between developed and developing countries, may also change the competitive are established for critical controls over material risks with supporting monitoring and verification processes.
position of some of our assets.
Assessments of the potential impact of future climate change regulation are uncertain given the wide We have established processes that apply when entering or scope of potential regulatory change in the many countries where commencing new activities in higher governance risk countries.
The South African Government plans to introduce Risk assessments and a supporting risk management plan are a carbon tax beginning in 2015: however the details are not required to ensure that potential reputation, legal, business yet finalised.
Carbon pricing has also been discussed as part conduct and corruption-related exposures are tolerable and of a broader tax reform package in Chile.
legislative compliance is maintained, including relevant The physical impacts of climate change on our operations are highly anti-corruption legislation and the application of any sanctions uncertain and will be particular to the geographic circumstances.
These may include changes in rainfall patterns, water shortages, Our risk management governance approach is described in rising sea levels, increased storm intensities and higher temperatures.
These effects may adversely impact the productivity and financial performance of our operations.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 | 17 1 Key information continued 1.7.
3 Management of principal risks The scope of our operations and the number of industries in which we operate and engage mean that a range of factors may impact our results.
Material risks that could negatively affect our results and performance are described in section 1.7.
Our approach to managing these risks is outlined below.
Principal risk area Risk management approach External risks The diversification of our portfolio of commodities, geographies and currencies is a key strategy for reducing volatility.
Section 3.4 describes external factors and trends Risks arise from fluctuations in commodity affecting our results and note 29 Financial risk management to the financial prices and currency exchange rates, demand statements outlines the Groups financial risk management strategy, including market, changes in major markets such as China commodity, and currency risk.
The Financial Risk Management Committee oversees or Europe or actions by governments and these, as described in section 5.15.
We engage with governments and other key political events that impact long-term stakeholders to ensure the potential impacts of proposed fiscal, tax, resource fiscal stability.
investment, infrastructure access and regulatory changes are understood and where possible mitigated.
Business risks We support our business strategy through minerals and petroleum exploration programs.
The Group Resource and Business Optimisation function provides governance and Executing our business strategy creates risks technical leadership for Mineral Resource development and Ore Reserves reporting as related to identifying and proving reserves, described in section 2.13.2 and section 2.6.
Our governance over reporting of Petroleum adding and divesting assets and managing reserves is described in section 2.13.1. our capital development projects.
We have established investment approval processes that apply to all major capital projects and asset divestment and acquisitions.
The Investment Committee oversees these as described in section 5.15.
The Group Project Management function additionally ensures that the optimum framework and capabilities are in place to deliver safe, predictable and competitive projects.
Additionally we have established project hubs as operating centres for the study and execution of a pipeline of major capital projects using a program management approach.
Financial risks We seek to maintain a solid A credit rating, supported by our portfolio risk management strategy.
As part of this strategy, commodity prices and currency exchange rates are not Continued volatility in global financial hedged, and wherever possible we take the prevailing market price, which serves to markets may adversely impact future cash mitigate counterparty performance risk.
We use Cash Flow at Risk analysis to monitor flows, the ability to adequately access and volatilities and key financial ratios.
Credit limits and review processes are established source capital from financial markets and for all customers and financial counterparties.
The Financial Risk Management Committee our credit rating.
This may impact planned oversees these as described in section 5.15.
Note 29 Financial risk management expenditures, as well as the ability to to the financial statements outlines our financial risk management strategy.
recover investments in mining and oil and gas projects.
In addition, the commercial counterparties customers, suppliers and financial institutions we transact with may, due to adverse market conditions, not meet their obligations.
Operational risks We seek to ensure that adequate operating margins are maintained through our strategy to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost and expandable upstream assets.
Operating cost pressures, reduced productivity and labour shortages could The Groups concentrated effort to reduce operating costs and drive productivity negatively impact operating margins and improvements has realised tangible results, with a reduction in controllable costs.
Non-controlled assets may The capability to sustain productivity improvements is being further enhanced not comply with our standards.
Unexpected through continued refinements to our Operating Model.
The Operating Model is natural and operational catastrophes may designed to deliver a simple and scalable organisation, providing a competitive adversely impact our operations.
Breaches advantage through defining work, organisation and performance measurement.
in IT security processes may adversely impact Defined global business processes, including 1SAP, provide a standardised way the conduct of our business activities.
of working across the organisation.
Common processes generate reliable data and improve operating discipline.
Global sourcing arrangements have been established to ensure continuity of supply and competitive costs for key supply inputs.
We seek to influence the application of our standards to non-controlled assets.
Through the application of our risk management processes, we identify material catastrophic operational risks and implement the critical controls and performance requirements to maintain control effectiveness.
Business continuity plans are required to be established to mitigate consequences.
Consistent with our portfolio risk management approach, we continue to be largely self-insured for losses arising from property damage, business interruption and construction.
IT security controls to protect IT infrastructure, applications and communication networks and respond to security incidents are in place and subject to regular monitoring and assessment.
To maintain adequate levels of protection, we also continue to monitor the development of threats in the external environment and assess potential responses to those threats.
18 | BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REPORT 2013 1 2 3 Operating and financial 4 Board of Directors and 5 Corporate 6 Key information Information on the Company review and prospects Group Management Committee Governance Statement Remuneration Report 1.7.
3 Management of principal risks continued Principal risk area Risk management approach Sustainability risks Our approach to sustainability risks is reflected in Our Charter and described in section 2.8.
A comprehensive set of Group Level Documents GLD set out Group-wide HSEC incidents or accidents and related HSEC-related performance requirements to ensure effective management control regulations may adversely affect our people, of these risks.
operations and reputation or licence to operate.
The potential physical impacts and Our Code of Business Conduct sets out requirements related to working with integrity, related government regulatory responses to including dealings with government officials and third parties.
Processes and controls are climate change and greenhouse effects may in place for the financial control over financial reporting, including under Sarbanes-Oxley.
adversely impact our operations and markets.
We have established anti-corruption and antitrust related performance requirements Given that we operate in a challenging global overseen by the Legal and Compliance function.
The Disclosure Committee oversees environment straddling multiple jurisdictions, our compliance with securities dealing obligations and continuous and periodic a breach of our governance processes disclosure obligations.
may lead to regulatory penalties and loss of reputation.
For example, our future revenues from our operations, projects 1.8 Forward looking statements or mines described in this Annual Report will be based, in part, This Annual Report contains statements relating to past upon the market price of the minerals, metals or petroleum performance which cannot be relied on as a guide to future products produced, which may vary significantly from current performance and also contains forward looking statements, levels.
These variations, if materially adverse, may affect the including statements regarding: timing or the feasibility of the development of a particular project, trends in commodity prices and currency exchange rates: the expansion of certain facilities or mines, or the continuation demand for commodities: of existing operations.
plans, strategies and objectives of management: Other factors that may affect the actual construction or production divestment of assets or closure of certain operations or facilities commencement dates, costs or production output and anticipated including associated costs : lives of operations, mines or facilities include our ability to profitably produce and transport the minerals, petroleum and or metals anticipated production or construction commencement dates: extracted to applicable markets: the impact of foreign currency capital costs and scheduling: exchange rates on the market prices of the minerals, petroleum operating costs and shortages of materials and skilled employees: or metals we produce: activities of government authorities in anticipated productive lives of projects, mines and facilities: some of the countries where we are exploring or developing these provisions and contingent liabilities: projects, facilities or mines, including increases in taxes, changes tax and regulatory developments.
in environmental and other regulations and political uncertainty: labour unrest: and other factors identified in the risk factors Forward looking statements can be identified by the use of described in section 1.7.
1. terminology such as intend, aim, project, anticipate, estimate, plan, believe, expect, may, should, will, continue or similar We cannot assure you that our estimated economically recoverable words.
These statements discuss future expectations concerning the reserve figures, closure or divestment of operations or facilities, results of operations or financial condition, or provide other forward including associated costs, actual production or commencement looking statements.
dates, cost or production output or anticipated lives of the projects, mines and facilities discussed in this Annual Report, will not differ These forward looking statements are not guarantees or predictions materially from the statements contained in this Annual Report.
of future performance, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, many of which are beyond our Except as required by applicable regulations or by law, the Group control, and which may cause actual results to differ materially does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or review any from those expressed in the statements contained in this forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information Annual Report.
Readers are cautioned not to put undue or future events.
reliance on forward looking statements.
