STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Glossary of terms Accident year CDOs Endorsement The calendar or accounting year in which Collateralised debt obligations.
Entities owning Any addition to a policy, or addition to the a loss occurs.
cash generating assets, which sell the rights to printed wording, which changes or varies the cash flows from those assets along with terms of, or parties to, the contract.
Actuarial best estimate associated risks.
An estimate produced by Amlins in-house Excess of loss reinsurance XL actuarial team using statistical methods Cede A reinsurance that covers that part of a loss overlaid with judgement and intended to To transfer risk from a direct insurer paid by the reinsured which is in excess of an represent the probability-weighted average of to his reinsurers.
agreed amount and then pays up to the limit all possible future outcomes with the exception of the policy.
Claims ratio of unforeseen events and the emergence of Net claims plus claims expenses divided Expense ratio new types of claims.
The estimate therefore by net earned premium.
Underwriting expenses divided by net earned intentionally does not include any risk margin premium.
to allow for the uncertainties within the claims Co-insurance process.
Actual claims experience will not In the context of the European insurance Facultative develop exactly as projected and may, in fact, market, co-insurance is the joint assumption Where the insurer accepts risks on an vary significantly from the projections.
No of risk between a number of insurers.
allowance is made for discounting except where explicitly highlighted.
Combined ratio Gross and net underwriting Claims ratio plus expense ratio.
When referring to premium written or earned, AIR losses or underwriting results, these terms Service providing up-to-date information Commercial combined denote before gross and after net the and loss estimates for major natural Also known as Package.
Policies where application of reinsurance.
several different types of insurance cover are combined into one policy.
IBNR Beurs An estimate of claims or losses which have The Dutch corporate co-insurance market.
Contingent capital been incurred but not yet reported to the Contingent capital arrangements provide insurer.
Binders Binding authority the option to raise capital during a defined An authority granted by an active underwriter commitment period based upon the IFRS to an intermediary whereby that intermediary occurrence of a qualifying event, such International Financial Reporting Standards.
is entitled to accept, within certain limits, as a defined insurance loss.
insurance business on behalf of members.
ILS Coverholder Insurance linked securities are financial Box at Lloyds A company authorised by a Lloyds syndicate instruments linked to insurance loss events.
Accommodation in the underwriting room to enter into contracts of insurance and or at Lloyds from which business may be Incurred loss issue insurance documentation on their behalf.
Paid claims plus claims advised by a DFA policyholder but not paid.
Does not Capacity Dynamic Financial Analysis uses a detailed include IBNR.
The maximum amount of business which modelling assessment of the key risks facing may be accepted by a Lloyds syndicate.
Incurred loss ratio an insurer to help assess its financial position.
Incurred losses divided by earned premium.
Key areas of use include the assessment of Carried Reserves capital requirements and understanding the Managements best estimate of the Lead non-lead possible impact of future plans and strategies.
appropriate amount of reserves to hold at Lead denotes an underwriter in the the balance sheet date.
The carried reserves subscription market who sets the terms and Direct and facultative take account of specific uncertainties in the price of a policy.
Following underwriters accept Direct property insurance and facultative reserves and are higher than the actual the policy on the same terms.
Letter of credit LOC Earned premium Catastrophe bonds Written undertaking by a financial institution Proportion of insurance premium recognised in Risk-based securities that pay high interest to provide funding if required.
the income statement based on the estimated rates and provide insurance companies with risk period falling in the financial year.
a form of reinsurance to pay losses from a Line size catastrophe.
They allow insurance risk to be The monetary limit of a policy for a first ECF sold to institutional investors in the form of claim accepted by an underwriter.
bonds, thus spreading the risk.
Other financial Line slip instruments used to transfer catastrophe risk Efficient frontier A facility operated by a Lloyds broker to capital markets include catastrophe swaps Represents the combinations of securities that whereby risks can be bound to a panel of and industry loss warrants.
produce the maximum expected return for a insurers through the agreement of a leading given level of risk.
underwriter plus one or two following markets as specified on the slip at placement.
Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 207 Glossary of terms continued Loss ratio Reserves Sub-prime See incurred loss ratio and ultimate loss ratio.
Funds that have been set aside to meet Mortgages provided to home buyers with outstanding claims and IBNR.
Nearly all sub-prime loans NFIP in the US are packaged into mortgage backed The National Flood Insurance Programme is Retention ratio securities for sale to investors.
a US federal insurance programme providing The percentage of the previous years property insurance as protection against flood premium that is renewed.
Subscription market losses in exchange for floodplain management Insurance market, such as Lloyds, whereby Retrocession regulations that reduce future flood damages.
underwriters subscribe to proportions of risks.
The reinsurance of liability accepted by Non-life way of reinsurance.
Surplus General insurance companies which sell The amount by which the gross sum insured Return on capital employed ROCE policies other than life insurance, annuities accepted by the insurance company exceeds After tax profit divided by opening or pension products.
shareholders equity plus debt, adjusted Non-monetary assets & liabilities for any capital raisings or returns.
Surplus lines Assets and liabilities that are accounting entries A reinsurance where the surplus of the Return on equity ROE and are not expected to be exchanged for cash reinsureds retention is ceded up to an agreed After tax profit divided by opening shareholders such as unearned premium reserves.
Once accepted, both parties pay their equity, adjusted for any capital raisings or returns.
Outstanding claims Risk-based capital Losses which have been reported to the Total shareholder returns TSR Risk-based capital is a method used to insurer but not yet paid.
Returns combining share price performance measure the minimum amount of capital that and dividend payments.
Package an insurance company needs to support its See commercial combined.
overall business operations taking into account Treaty the size and type of risk taken by the insurer.
A reinsurance contract covering entire Personal lines portfolios of risks.
Property casualty insurance products that RMS are designed for and bought by individuals, Risk Management Solutions.
Provider Ultimate loss ratio ULR including homeowners and automobile policies.
Total forecast claims divided by total forecast premium expected to arise from a policy or Proportional reinsurance Service company class of business.
Losses include those paid, A type of reinsurance where the ceding A company set up to operate a binding those notified and IBNR.
insurer cedes to its reinsurer a predetermined authority on behalf of the Syndicate to proportion of the premium and liability of those write business from non-Lloyds brokers Underwriting year policies subject to the reinsurance agreement.
The year to which a policy is allocated and to which all premiums and claims in respect Quantitative Impact Study QIS5 Sidecars of that policy are attributed.
Allocation is A field test of the proposed quantitative aspects Speciality reinsurance companies designed determined by the inception date of the policy.
of Solvency II, including the solvency capital to provide additional capital to a specific requirement SCR under the standard formula, reinsurance company.
Investors, such as Unearned premium the minimum capital requirement MCR and hedge funds, invest in a reinsurance company, Proportion of insurance premium covering the regulatory solvency balance sheet.
the sidecar, to reinsure specific risks for periods after the end of the financial year.
Held in the unearned premium reserve.
Quota share A form of proportional reinsurance where the Solvency II US admitted market reinsurer receives a percentage of every risk, A proposed EU-wide regulatory regime which The market provided by insurers who are as defined by the reinsurance contracts, intends to align solvency capital to an insurers licensed to do business in US States.
written by the ceding company.
VaR Rating agency Special purpose vehicle A statistical measure which calculates the Credit agencies which determine insurers Corporate entity designed to isolate financial possible loss over a year in normal market financial strength and company debt ratings.
risk, often to allow other investors to conditions.
As VaR estimates are based participate in that risk.
on historical market data this should not Realistic disaster scenario RDS be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level Modelling of the probable loss which may arise Specie of risk to the investments.
The insurance of high value items including deposits, bullion and fine art.
Year of account YOA Reinsurance The year for Lloyds syndicates to which a Insurance bought by insurers.
A reinsurer Subordinated debt policy is allocated and to which all premiums assumes part of the risk and part of the Subordinated debt is debt that takes a lower and claims in respect of that policy are premium originally taken by the insurer, known priority than other debt.
If an issuer is liquidated attributed.
Allocation is determined by as the primary company.
then subordinated debt holders will only be the inception date of the policy.
paid after senior creditors have been fully paid.
