Notes to the accounts For the year ended 31 December 2013 1.
Summary of significant its power over the entity.
The financial Adoption of new and revised standards accounting policies and statements of all subsidiaries are prepared a Standards, amendments to published critical accounting judgements for the same reporting year as the Parent standards and interpretations effective on and estimates Company.
Consolidation adjustments are or after 1 January 2013 Amlin plc the Company is a public limited made to convert subsidiary accounts The Group has adopted the following company registered in England and Wales.
prepared under different accounting new and amended IFRSs effective as of The address of the registered office is standards into IFRS so as to remove the 1 January 2013: St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3A 8ND.
effects of any different accounting policies  IAS 19 revised, Employee benefits that may exist.
Subsidiaries are consolidated The basis of preparation, basis of  IFRS 13, Fair value measurement from the date that control is transferred to consolidation and significant accounting the Group and cease to be consolidated  IFRS 7 amended, Financial instruments: policies adopted in the preparation of from the date that control is transferred out.
Disclosures Offsetting financial assets Amlin plc and subsidiaries the Group and financial liabilities consolidated financial statements are All inter company balances, profits and  IAS 1 amended, Presentation of set out below.
financial statements Presentation of Basis of preparation Details of principal subsidiaries included items of other comprehensive income These consolidated financial statements are within the consolidated financial statements  IAS 12 amended, Income taxes prepared in accordance with International can be found in note 4.
Deferred taxes Recovery of underlying Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and Going concern assets interpretations issued by the IFRS The Groups business, risk and financial  Annual improvements to IFRSs 2009- Interpretation Committee IFRICs, as management, performance and position, 2011 cycle adopted for use in the European Union EU.
together with factors that are likely to affect The consolidated financial statements The effects of these changes are as follows: future development, are described in the comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Financial Performance Review of this Annual IAS 19 revised, Employee benefits regulation and Companies Act 2006.
Capital management The amendments principally affect the The consolidated financial statements have strategy, which covers how regulatory and accounting for, and disclosure of, defined been prepared on the historical cost basis economic capital needs are measured and benefit plans.
It eliminates the option to except for cash and cash equivalents, how capital is deployed, is described under defer the recognition of actuarial gains and financial assets and financial liabilities, Financial Management on page 33.
The losses under the corridor approach, applies share options, contingent consideration financial position of the Group, including a single rate to the net defined asset or and pension assets, which are measured commentary on cash and investment levels, liability to calculate the net interest income at their fair value.
currency management, insurance liability or expense, removes the options for the management, liquidity and borrowings, is also presentation of gains and losses and Except where otherwise stated, all figures covered in that section.
In addition, note 2 enhances disclosure requirements in respect included in the consolidated financial describes capital management needs and of defined benefit plans and the risks arising statements are presented in millions of policies and note 3 covers underwriting, on those plans.
The amendments have been British Pounds Sterling sterling shown as market, liquidity and credit risk which may applied retrospectively with comparative m rounded to the nearest 100,000. affect the financial position of the Group.
The impact The accounting policies adopted in preparing of the restatement is presented in note 32.
The Group has considerable financial these financial statements are consistent resources to meet its financial needs and, IFRS 13, Fair value measurement with those followed in the preparation of the in much of the Group, manages a mature IFRS 13 is a new standard which establishes Groups annual financial statements for the portfolio of insurance risk through an a single source of guidance under IFRS for year ended 31 December 2012, unless experienced and stable team.
The Directors fair value measurement and introduces new otherwise stated.
believe that the Group is well positioned to disclosures to help users to better assess the In accordance with IFRS 4, Insurance manage its business risk successfully in the valuation techniques and inputs used to contracts, the Group has applied existing current economic environment.
The standard defines accounting practices for insurance contracts, fair value as the price that would be received After making enquiries, the Directors have a modified as appropriate, to comply with the to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability reasonable expectation that the Company, IFRS framework and applicable standards.
in an orderly transaction between market and the Group, have adequate resources to participants at the measurement date Basis of consolidation continue in operational existence for the i. e. an exit price.
The financial statements consolidate the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they accounts of the Company and subsidiaries, continue to adopt the going concern basis The standard has been applied prospectively including the Groups underwriting through in preparing the financial statements.
in accordance with the transitional provisions.
The disclosure requirements of the standard Subsidiaries are all entities including have been applied in this set of financial structured entities over which the Group has statements.
The adoption of the standard has control.
The Group controls an entity when it had no impact on the Groups or Companys is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns measurement of assets and liabilities from its involvement with the entity and has measured at fair value.
the ability to affect those returns through 118 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 118 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IFRS 7 amended, Financial instruments: IFRS 10, Consolidated financial However, during 2013 the IASB tentatively Disclosures Offsetting financial assets statements, IFRS 11, Joint decided to defer the mandatory effective and financial liabilities arrangements, IFRS 12, Disclosure date and leave it open pending the finalisation The amendments introduce new disclosure of interests in other entities, IAS 27 of the impairment and classification and requirements intended to better compare amended, Separate financial measurement requirements.
the different offsetting of financial assets statements and IAS 28 amended, The adoption of IFRS 9 will have an effect and financial liabilities under IFRS and US Investment in associates and on the classification and measurement of GAAP.
The amendments require entities to joint ventures the Groups financial instruments.
The disclose more information about the right The Group early adopted the requirements Group has determined that the effect of offset and related arrangements for of IFRS 10, IFRS 11, IFRS 12, IAS 27 shall be quantified in conjunction with financial instruments under an enforceable amended and IAS 28 amended, from 1 the impairment model when issued.
master netting agreement or similar January 2012, details of which were Consideration will also be given to the arrangement.
The amendments have been provided in the 2012 Annual Report.
emerging requirements and expected applied retrospectively and required IAS 32 amended, Financial instruments: timetable of the IASBs insurance contracts disclosures are provided in note 18 b.
Presentation Offsetting financial assets project in addressing the Groups IAS 1 amended, Presentation of and financial liabilities classification and measurement approach.
financial statements Presentation of The amendments to IAS 32 clarify the IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 amended, items of other comprehensive income requirements for offsetting financial Investment entities The amendments to IAS 1 require items of instruments.
The amendments have had no The IASB issued amendments to IFRS 10, other comprehensive income to be grouped impact on the financial statements of the IFRS 12 and IAS 27 in October 2012 to into those that will not be reclassified to Group or Company.
address the accounting for investments profit or loss and those that may be c Standards, amendments to published controlled by investment entities.
The reclassified subsequently to profit or loss standards and interpretations that are not amendments define an investment entity when specific conditions are met.
The yet effective and have not been early and require an investment entity to measure aggregate amount of income tax relating adopted by the Group its subsidiaries at fair value through profit or to items of other comprehensive income Standards, amendments to published loss.
The amendments do not permit the is also allocated to these two categories.
standards and interpretations issued but not roll-up of fair value accounting in the These amendments have been reflected yet effective up to the date of issuance of consolidated financial statements of a nonin the consolidated statement of other the Groups financial statements are listed investment entity parent.
The amendments comprehensive income, with comparative below.
The Group intends to adopt these are applicable for annual periods beginning information reclassified accordingly.
standards when they become effective.
on or after 1 January 2014 and will not have an impact on the financial statements of the IAS 12 amended, Income taxes IFRS 9, Financial instruments: Group and Company on adoption.
deferred taxes: Recovery of Classification and measurement underlying assets IFRS 9 as originally issued in 2009, reflects IFRIC 21, Levies The amendments to IAS 12 relate to the the first phase of the IASBs work on the IFRIC 21 sets out the accounting for a measurement of deferred tax on investment replacement of IAS 39, Financial liability to pay levies that are imposed by properties and have had no impact on the instruments: Recognition and governments.
The interpretation requires a financial statements of the Group or measurement, and applies to the liability to be recognised when the obligating Company on adoption.
The event to pay a levy occurs, which might arise Annual improvements to IFRSs standard was subsequently reissued in at a point in time or progressively over time.
2009-2011 cycle 2010, incorporating the requirements of IFRIC 21 is effective for annual periods 1 The International Accounting Standards accounting for financial liabilities and, beginning on or after 1 January 2014 and Board IASB uses the annual improvements carrying over from IAS 39, the requirements should be applied retrospectively.
The process to make necessary, but non-urgent, for derecognition of financial assets and interpretation is not expected to have a amendments to IFRSs that will not be financial liabilities.
The IASB is currently significant impact on the financial included as part of a major project.
The considering limited modifications to the statements of the Group.
amendments primarily remove classification and measurement inconsistencies and clarify wording.
Adoption of these amendments has not had In November 2013, the IASB issued a new a material impact on the financial model for hedge accounting, together with statements of the Group or Company.
the corresponding disclosures about risk management activities.
The IASB is currently b Standards, amendments to published addressing the impairment of financial standards and interpretations early adopted assets.
IFRS 9 as originally issued had a by the Group mandatory effective date of 1 January 2013.
The Group has early adopted the following new and amended IFRSs in its financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013: Note: 1.
Subject to EU endorsement Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 119 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 119 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 1.
Summary of significant Insurance contract liabilities 31 December 2013 are 4,368.8 million accounting policies and critical The most significant estimate made in 2012: 4,205.0 million and 4.7 million accounting judgements and the financial statements relates to unpaid 2012: 5.7 million respectively.
estimates continued insurance claim reserves and related loss Intangible assets IAS 36 amended, Impairment of assets adjustment expenses of the Group.
Intangible assets are recognised on the Recoverable amount disclosures for The estimated provision for the total level acquisition of a subsidiary, on the purchase non-financial assets of claims incurred changes as more of specific rights to renew a particular The amendments remove the requirement information becomes known about the underwriting portfolio, on the acquisition to disclose recoverable amount when a cash actual losses for which the initial provisions of syndicate capacity and on internally generating unit contains goodwill or indefinite were set up.
The change in claims costs for developed computer software.
life intangible assets but there has been no prior period insurance claims represents impairment.
However, the amendments The value of intangible assets arising from the claims development of earlier reported will require additional information about fair the acquisition of a subsidiary, syndicate years incurred in the current accounting value measurement when the recoverable capacity or on the purchase of renewal period.
The carrying value of the Groups amount of impaired assets is based on fair rights is largely based on the expected net outstanding claims reserves at value less costs of disposal.
The amendments cash flows of the business acquired and 31 December 2013 is 2,554.0 million are effective for annual periods beginning on contractual rights on that business.
In 2013, there or after 1 January 2014 and are not expected has been a net positive development of The internally developed computer to have a material impact on the financial 133.5 million 2012: 94.2 million positive software principally relates to cost directly statements of the Group.
Note 3.1 provides further attributable to the development of a new IAS 39 amended, Financial instruments: details of the method the Group applies in IT platform for Amlin Europe N. V. recognition and measurement Novation estimating insurance contract liabilities.
The assumptions made by management in of derivatives and continuation of hedge Insurance contract premium performing impairment tests of intangible accounting Gross written premium is recognised on assets are subject to estimation uncertainty.
The amendments provide relief from insurance contracts incepting during the The results of the impairment test may result discontinuing hedge accounting when financial year and includes an estimate of in the value of the intangible being impaired novation of a derivative designated as a the total premium expected to be received in the current period.
Note 23 provides hedging instrument meets certain criteria.
Revenue recognised further details on these assumptions.
The amendments are effective for annual on policies written through contracts with periods beginning on or after 1 January The carrying value of the Groups intangible third parties, such as binding authorities 1 2014 and are not expected to have a assets excluding goodwill at 31 December and line slips, is deemed to be written in material impact on the financial statements 2013 is 150.0 million 2012: 136.3 million.
full at the inception of such contracts and of the Group.
therefore this estimate is particularly Goodwill impairment IAS 19 amended, Employee benefits judgemental.
Adjustments to estimates The Group determines whether goodwill is Defined benefit plans: employee from previous years are included in the impaired at least on an annual basis.
requires an estimation of the recoverable The amendments apply to contributions from amount of the cash generating unit to The premium estimation processes use employees or third parties to defined benefit which goodwill is allocated.
Details of the expert judgement, the quality of the plans.
The objective of the amendments is to key assumptions used in the estimation estimate being influenced by the nature simplify the accounting for contributions that of the recoverable amounts are contained and maturity of the portfolio, availability are independent of the number of years of in note 23. of timely data, relevant underwriting employee service, for example, employee input to the estimating process and The Group has allocated goodwill to cash contributions that are calculated according to management review.
Therefore, gross generating units based on a number of a fixed percentage of salary.
The amendments written premium estimates are reviewed factors, which include how the entitys 1 are effective from 1 July 2014 and are not on a quarterly basis using underwriter operations are monitored.
Note 23 provides expected to have a material impact on the estimates and actuarial projections.
The carrying value at the financial statements of the Group.
reporting date of goodwill is 89.1 million Financial assets and financial liabilities Critical accounting judgements and key 2012: 75.1 million.
The Group uses pricing vendor sources in sources of estimation uncertainty determining the fair value of financial assets Tax The preparation of financial statements and financial liabilities.
Depending on the Uncertainties exist with respect to the requires the use of estimates and methods and assumptions used for example, interpretation of complex tax regulations assumptions that affect the reported in the fair valuation of Level 2 and Level 3 and the amount and timing of future taxable amounts of assets and liabilities, and the financial assets, the fair valuation of financial income.
The wide range of international disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.
assets and financial liabilities can be subject business relationships and the long-term Although these estimates are based on to estimation uncertainty.
Details of these nature and complexity of existing contractual managements best knowledge of current methods and assumptions are described in agreements could necessitate future events and actions, actual results may note 3.3.
The carrying values of the Groups adjustments to tax income and expense ultimately differ from those estimates.
financial assets and financial liabilities at already recorded.
The Group establishes provisions, based on reasonable estimates, Note: 1.
Subject to EU endorsement 120 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 120 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for possible consequences of audits by the 31 December 2013, the Group recognised Differences arising on the translation of tax authorities of the respective countries a liability of 32.6 million 2012 restated: foreign currency amounts on such items in which it operates.
The amount of such 40.9 million in respect of its defined are included in other operating expenses.
provisions is based on various factors, such benefit plans.
Details of the principal exchange rates as experience of previous tax audits and Determining control of entities used are included in note 33. differing interpretations of tax regulations The significant judgements and assumptions by the taxable entity and the responsible tax Product classification made by the Group in reaching its control authority.
Such differences of interpretation Insurance contracts are defined as those and consolidation conclusions for certain may arise on a wide variety of issues containing significant insurance risk if, investments held by the Group are outlined depending on the conditions prevailing and only if, an insured event could cause in note 4 b. in the country of the respective Group an insurer to make significant additional companys domicile.
Significant accounting policies payments in any scenario, excluding Foreign currency translation scenarios that lack commercial substance, Deferred tax assets are recognised for all The Group and Company present their at the inception of the contract.
unused tax losses to the extent that it is accounts in sterling since they are subject probable that taxable profits will be available Contracts entered into by the Group with to regulation in the United Kingdom and the against which the losses can be utilised.
reinsurers under which the Group is net assets, liabilities and income of both are Significant management judgement is compensated for losses on contracts issued currently weighted towards sterling.
US dollar required to determine the amount of by the Group and that meet the classification and euro revenues are significant but the deferred tax assets that can be recognised, requirements for insurance contracts are sterling revenue stream is currently material.
based upon the likely timing and the level classified as reinsurance contracts held.
Group entities conduct business in a range of of future taxable profits, together with Insurance contracts underwritten by the economic environments, although these are future tax planning strategies.
Group under which the contract holder is primarily the UK, USA and Continental Europe.
another insurer inwards reinsurance are The carrying value at the reporting date Transactions denominated in foreign included within insurance contracts.
of the deferred tax asset is 6.1 million currencies are translated using the exchange 2012 restated: 15.8 million, and of the The significance of insurance risk is dependent rates prevailing at the dates of the deferred tax liability is 63.7 million on both the probability of an insured event transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities 2012: 27.9 million.
and the magnitude of its potential effect.
are translated at the rates of exchange at the Any contracts not considered to be insurance Staff incentive plans reporting date.
Non-monetary assets and contracts under IFRS 4 are classified as The Group recognises a liability and expense liabilities are translated at the rate prevailing financial instruments.
for certain staff incentive plans based on a in the period in which the asset or liability formula that takes into consideration the first arose or, where such items are Based on the current assessment, all of the underwriting profit after certain adjustments.
revalued, at the latest valuation date.
products underwritten by the Groups Underwriting profit is estimated based on Exchange differences are recognised within insurance entities are insurance contracts current expectation of premiums and other operating expenses.
Certain risk transfer claims and will change as more information contracts held by the Group, for example The results and financial position of those is known or future events occur.
Where catastrophe linked instruments, do not meet Group entities whose functional currency is estimates change, related staff incentive the definition of an insurance contract and not sterling foreign operations are plan liabilities may also change.
are therefore accounted for as financial translated into sterling as follows: instruments in accordance with IAS 39.
The carrying value at the reporting date  Assets and liabilities for each statement of of the liability for the staff incentive plans Insurance contracts premium financial position presented are translated is 53.0 million 2012: 39.8 million.
Gross written premium comprise premium at the closing exchange rate at the on insurance contracts incepting during the Retirement benefit obligations reporting date: financial year together with adjustments to The Group participates in the Lloyds  Income and expenses for each statement premium written in previous accounting Superannuation Fund defined benefit of profit or loss are translated at the periods.
The estimated premium income in scheme and also operates defined benefit exchange rates at the date of each respect of facility contracts, for example schemes in the Netherlands, Belgium transaction, or a practical approximation binding authorities and lineslips, is deemed and Switzerland.
to these rates: and to be written in full at the inception of The amounts included in these financial  On consolidation, all resulting exchange the contract.
statements are sensitive to changes in the differences are recognised in other Premium is disclosed before the deduction of assumptions used to derive the value of comprehensive income.
brokerage and taxes or duties levied on them.
the scheme assets and liabilities.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising A gain of 9.4 million 2012 restated: loss on the acquisition of a foreign operation are of 9.5 million has been recognised in other treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign comprehensive income and an expense operation and translated at the closing rate.
of 7.2 million 2012: 6.4 million has been Where contracts to sell currency have recognised in the statement of profit or loss.
been entered into prior to the year end, Note 32 provides further details on the the contracted rates have been used.
At Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 121 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 121 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 1.
Summary of significant Unpaid claims reserves are estimated on an that can reasonably be recovered from accounting policies and critical undiscounted basis.
Unpaid claims reserves the disposal of the property.
accounting judgements and acquired through a business combination Subrogation reimbursements are also estimates continued are measured at fair value, using an considered as an allowance in the The proportion of gross written premium, applicable risk-free discount rate and having measurement of the insurance liability for gross of commission payable, attributable to regard to the expected settlement dates of claims and are recognised in other loans and periods after the reporting date is deferred as a the claims.
Provisions are subject to a receivables when the liability is settled.
The provision for unearned premium.
The change detailed quarterly review where forecast allowance is the assessment of the amount in this provision is taken to the statement of future cash flows and existing amounts that can be recovered from the action profit or loss in order that revenue is provided are reviewed and reassessed.
Any against the liable third party.
recognised over the period of the risk.
changes to the amounts held are adjusted through profit or loss.
Provisions are Investment return Premium is recognised as earned over the established above an actuarial best estimate, Dividends and any related tax credits are policy contract period.
The earned element is reflecting a risk premium relating to the recognised as income on the date that the calculated separately for each contract on a uncertainty of the actual level of claims related listed investments are marked exbasis where the premium is apportioned over incurred.
Although it is possible that claims dividend.
Other investment income and the period of risk.
For premium written under could develop and exceed the reserves interest receivable are recognised on an facilities, the earned element is calculated carried, there is therefore a reasonable accruals basis.
based on the estimated inception date and chance of release of reserves from one year coverage period of the underlying contracts.
Segment reporting to the next.
Operating segments are reported in a Acquisition costs The unpaid claims reserves also include, manner consistent with the internal reporting Acquisition costs comprise brokerage where necessary, a reserve for unexpired provided to the chief operating decision incurred on insurance contracts written risks where, at the reporting date, the maker.
The chief operating decision maker, during the financial year.
They are incurred estimated costs of future claims and related which is responsible for allocating resources on the same basis as the earned proportions deferred acquisition costs are expected to and assessing the performance of the of the premium they relate to.
Deferred exceed the unearned premium provision.
operating segments, has been identified acquisition costs are amortised over the as the Group Management Committee.
period in which the related revenues are Reinsurance recoveries earned.
Deferred acquisition costs are The benefits to which the Group is entitled Business combinations reviewed at the end of each reporting period under its reinsurance contracts held are i.
Business combinations before and are impaired where they are no longer recognised as reinsurance assets.
These 1 January 2010 considered to be recoverable.
assets consist of short-term balances due The acquisitions of subsidiaries are from reinsurers, as well as longer-term accounted for using the purchase method.
Reinsurance premium ceded receivables that are dependent on the The cost of acquisition is measured as the Reinsurance premium ceded comprise expected claims and benefits arising under fair value of assets given, liabilities incurred premium on reinsurance arrangements the related reinsured insurance contracts.
or assumed, and equity instruments issued bought which incept during the financial Amounts recoverable from or due to by the Group at the date of exchange, plus year, together with adjustments to reinsurers are measured consistently with any costs directly attributable to the premium ceded in previous accounting the amounts associated with the reinsured business combination.
The proportion of reinsurance insurance contracts and in accordance with acquired and liabilities and contingent premium ceded attributable to periods the terms of each reinsurance contract.
liabilities assumed, meeting the conditions after the reporting date is deferred as for recognition under IFRS 3, Business reinsurers share of unearned premium.
Where there is objective evidence that a combinations, are recognised at their fair Reinsurance premium ceded is earned over reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group value at the acquisition date, irrespective of the policy contract period in accordance reduces the carrying amount of the the extent of any minority interest.
The with the terms of the reinsurance contract.
reinsurance asset to its recoverable amount excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair and recognises that impairment loss in the value of the Groups share of the identifiable Insurance contracts liabilities statement of profit or loss.
net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
Claims paid are defined as those claims Salvage and subrogation reimbursements transactions settled up to the reporting ii.
Business combinations after Some insurance contracts permit the Group date including internal and external 1 January 2010 to sell usually damaged property acquired claims settlement expenses allocated The Group policy is to apply IFRS 3 revised in settling a claim for example, salvage.
to all acquisitions taking place on or after 1 Group may also have the right to pursue Unpaid claims reserves are made for known January 2010. Business combinations are third parties for payment of some or all costs or anticipated liabilities under insurance accounted for using the acquisition method.
contracts which have not been settled up The cost of acquisition is measured as the to the reporting date.
Included within the Estimates of salvage recoveries are included fair value of assets given, liabilities incurred provision is an allowance for the future costs as an allowance in the measurement of the or assumed, and equity instruments issued of settling those claims.
This is estimated insurance liability for claims, and salvage by the Group at the date of exchange.
Under based on past experience and current property is recognised in insurance and IFRS 3 revised, with the exception of the expectations of future cost levels.
reinsurance receivables when the liability costs of registering and issuing debt and is settled.
The allowance is the amount 122 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 122 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS securities that are recognised in accordance ii.
Goodwill Over period with IAS 32 and IAS 39 i. e. as a reduction in Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to Leasehold land of lease or 2% and buildings per annum proceeds, all other acquisition related costs 1 January 1999 was written off to reserves.
are to be expensed as incurred.
Goodwill recognised between 1 January 2% to 5% per Freehold buildings annum 1999 and the date of transition to IFRS 1 When the Group acquires a business, it January 2004 was capitalised and Motor vehicles 33% per annum assesses the financial assets and liabilities amortised on a straight-line basis over its Computer equipment 20% to 33% assumed for appropriate classification and estimated useful life.
Following the transition per annum designation in accordance with the to IFRS this goodwill is stated at net book Furniture, fixtures and contractual terms, economic circumstances value at 1 January 2004.
Goodwill that was leasehold improvements 20% per annum and pertinent conditions at the acquisition recognised subsequent to 1 January 2004 is date.
Identifiable assets acquired and The carrying values of property and capitalised.
Goodwill is tested for liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, equipment are reviewed for impairment impairment annually, or when events or meeting the conditions for recognition under when events or changes in circumstance changes in circumstance indicate that it IFRS 3, are recognised at their fair value at indicate that the carrying value may be might be impaired, by comparing the net the acquisition date, irrespective of the impaired.
If any such condition exists, the present value of the future earnings stream extent of any non-controlling interests.
The recoverable amount of the asset is estimated of the cash generating unit to which goodwill excess of the fair value of consideration in order to determine the extent of has been allocated, against the carrying transferred over the fair value of the Groups impairment and the difference is charged to value of the goodwill and the carrying value share of the identifiable net assets acquired profit or loss.
of the related net assets.
Gains and losses on disposal of property and iii.
Other intangible assets For each business combination, the Group equipment are determined by reference to Other intangible assets comprise costs measures any non-controlling interests in their carrying amount and are recorded in directly attributable to securing the intangible the acquiree at the non-controlling interests the statement of profit or loss.
Repairs and rights to broker and customer relationships proportionate share of the acquirees renewals are charged to profit or loss when and costs directly attributable to internally identifiable net assets.
Costs are recognised as land is not depreciated.
Investments in associates intangible assets where they can be identified Investments in associates are accounted for separately and measured reliably and it is Financial assets using the equity method.
probable that they will be recovered by The Group classifies its financial assets directly related future economic benefits.
at fair value through profit and loss FV or Associates are all entities over which the Other intangible assets are reviewed for available-for-sale.
The classification depends Group has significant influence but no control, impairment losses at each reporting date or on the purpose for which the financial assets generally accompanying a shareholding of whenever events or changes in circumstances were acquired.
Management determines between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
indicate that the carrying amount may not be the classification of its financial assets at The Groups share of its associates postrecoverable.
Other intangible assets are initial recognition.
acquisition profits and losses after tax is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation recognised in the statement of profit or loss Other than investments in certain unlisted and impairment losses.
Amortisation is each period, and its share of the movement in insurance intermediaries see below, the recognised in line with the consumption of the associates net assets is reflected in the Group classifies its financial investments at benefits based on the estimated useful investments carrying values in the statement FV.
This classification requires all fair value economic life of the assets, which is estimated of financial position.
changes to be recognised immediately to be between five and fifteen years, and is within the investment return line in the Intangible assets charged to other operating expenses in the statement of profit or loss.
Syndicate capacity statement of profit or loss.
category, fixed income securities, equity Lloyds syndicate participations that have Property and equipment securities, property funds and certain been purchased in the Lloyds capacity Property and equipment are stated at derivatives are classified as trading as the auctions are capitalised at cost.
Syndicate historical cost less accumulated depreciation Group buys with the intention to resell.
All capacity is considered to have an indefinite and provision for impairment where other assets at FV are classified as other life as it will provide benefits over an appropriate.
Cost includes the original than trading within the FV category as they indefinite future period and is therefore not purchase price of the asset and the costs are managed and their performance is subject to an annual amortisation charge.
attributable to bringing the asset to its evaluated on a FV basis.
The continuing value of the capacity is working condition for its intended use.
reviewed for impairment annually by The Group has investments in certain Depreciation is calculated on the straightreference to the expected future profit unlisted insurance intermediaries which are line basis to write down the cost of such streams to be earned from the cash treated as available-for-sale and are assets to their residual values over their generating units to which the intangible measured at fair value, unless their fair value estimated useful lives as follows: asset is allocated, with any impairment in cannot be reliably measured, in which case value being charged to profit or loss.
they are valued at cost less impairment.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 123 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 123 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 1.
Summary of significant an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise accounting policies and critical that are used in hedging transactions are cash in hand, deposits held on call with accounting judgements and highly effective in offsetting changes in fair banks and other short-term, highly liquid estimates continued values of hedged items.
investments which are believed to be subject Changes in the fair value of these to insignificant risk of change in fair value.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument investments are included in other related to the effective portion is recognised Treasury shares comprehensive income in the period in in other comprehensive income.
The fair Treasury shares are deducted from equity.
They are tested for values of derivative instruments used for No gain or loss is recognised on the impairment annually, or when events or hedging purposes are disclosed in note 18. purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the changes in circumstances indicate that Gains and losses accumulated in equity are treasury shares.
Any consideration paid or impairment might have occurred.
When included in the statement of profit or loss received is recognised directly in equity.
securities classified as available-for-sale are when the foreign operation is partially sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value Earnings per share disposed of or sold.
adjustments recognised in equity are Earnings per share are based on the profit included in the statement of profit or loss as Embedded derivatives with risks and attributable to shareholders and the gains and losses from investment securities.
characteristics which are not closely weighted average number of shares in issue related to the host contract, and where the during the period.
Shares held by the Purchases and sales of investments are combined instrument is not measured at fair Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT recognised on the trade date, which is the value with changes in fair value recognised and treasury shares are excluded from date the Group commits to purchase or sell in the statement of profit or loss, are the weighted average number of shares.
These are initially recognised at separated from the host contract and fair value, and are subsequently re-measured Basic earnings per share are calculated measured at fair value.
at fair value based on quoted bid prices.
by dividing profit after tax by the weighted Transaction costs are recognised directly Loans and receivables average number of issued shares during in the statement of profit or loss when Loans and receivables are initially the year.
Changes in the fair value of recognised at fair value and subsequently Diluted earnings per share are calculated investments are included in the statement measured at amortised cost using an by dividing profit after tax by the adjusted of profit or loss in the period in which they effective interest rate.
Appropriate average number of shares in issue.
The uncertainty around valuation is allowances for estimated irrecoverable adjusted average number of shares assumes discussed further in note 3. amounts are recognised in the statement conversion of dilutive potential ordinary of profit or loss when there is evidence that Derivative financial instruments shares, being shares from the Executive the asset is impaired.
These are reversed Derivative financial instruments primarily Share Option Scheme, Long Term Incentive when the triggering event that caused the include currency swaps, currency and Plan LTIP, Performance Share Plan PSP, impairment is reversed.
interest rate futures, currency options, Share Incentive Plan SIP and the catastrophe linked instruments and other Borrowings Sharesave scheme.
financial instruments that derive their value Borrowings are stated initially at the Leases mainly from underlying interest rates, consideration received net of transaction Leases are classified as finance leases foreign exchange rates or catastrophe risk.
Borrowings are subsequently whenever the terms of the lease transfer Derivatives are initially recognised at fair stated at amortised cost using the effective substantially all the risks and rewards to value on the date on which a derivative interest method.
Any difference between the Group.
All other leases are classified contract is entered into.
They are amortised cost and the redemption value is as operating leases.
subsequently measured at fair value, with recognised in the statement of profit or loss their fair values obtained from quoted over the period of the borrowings.
Transaction Rentals payable under operating leases are market prices or, where these are not costs on borrowings are charged to profit or charged to profit or loss in the period in available, by using valuation techniques such loss over the period of the borrowings.
which they become payable in accordance as discounted cash flow models or option with the terms of the lease, which is Finance costs pricing models.
Changes in the fair value of representative of the time pattern of the Finance costs mainly comprise interest derivative instruments are recognised Groups benefit.
payable on subordinated loans and the immediately in the statement of profit or loss revolving credit facility, together with Employee benefits unless the derivative is designated as a commissions charged for the utilisation of i.
Retirement benefit obligations hedging instrument.
As defined by IAS 39, letters of credit.
These costs are charged to The Group participates in a number the Group designates certain foreign profit or loss as finance costs, as incurred.
of pension schemes, including several currency derivatives as hedges of net Fees paid for the arrangement of debt, the defined benefit schemes and defined investments in foreign operations.
The revolving credit facility and letter of credit contribution schemes.
Group documents at the inception of each facilities are charged to finance costs over hedging transaction the relationship between The Lloyds Superannuation Fund scheme the life of the facility.
hedging instruments and hedged items, as is a multi-employer defined benefit scheme.
well as its risk management objectives and Cash and cash equivalents Amlin Europe N. V. participates in two strategy for undertaking various hedging Cash and cash equivalents are carried in the defined benefit schemes.
The Group also documents its statement of financial position at fair value.
pension scheme is classified as a defined assessment, both at hedge inception and on For the purposes of the statement of cash benefit scheme in accordance with IAS 19.
124 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 124 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The defined benefit obligation and costs are credited to share capital The carrying amount of deferred tax assets associated pension costs are calculated for the par value and the surplus to is reviewed at each reporting date and annually by independent actuaries using the share premium.
reduced to the extent that it is no longer projected unit credit method.
This method probable that sufficient taxable profits will iii.
Other benefits sees each period of service as giving rise to be available to allow all or part of the asset Other employee incentive schemes and an additional unit of benefit entitlement and to be recovered.
long-term service awards, including the measures each unit separately to build up Amlin Capital Builder Plan and sabbatical Deferred tax is calculated at the the final liability.
The cost of providing these leave, are recognised when they accrue to substantively enacted tax rates that are benefits is charged to profit or loss to spread employees.
A provision is made for the expected to apply in the period when the the pension cost over the service lives of estimated liability for long-service leave as a liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Any re-measurements arising result of services rendered by employees up Deferred tax is charged or credited to profit from the recognition and funding of the to the reporting date.
or loss, except when it relates to items Groups pension obligations are recognised charged or credited directly to other in other comprehensive income during the Other operating income comprehensive income or equity, in which period in which they arise.
Fee income received on insurance-related case the deferred tax is also charged or services is recognised as the benefits of the The liability recognised in the statement credited directly to other comprehensive services are provided.
of financial position in respect of defined income or equity respectively.
benefit pension plans is the fair value of plan Tax Deferred tax is recognised on the profits of assets less the present value of the defined Income tax expense represents the sum of foreign subsidiaries where it is reasonably benefit obligation at the reporting date, the current tax payable and deferred tax.
foreseeable that distribution of the profit together with adjustments for restrictions on back to the UK will take place and the UK The current tax is based on taxable profit for the recognition of a defined benefit asset dividend exemption is not expected to apply.
Taxable profit differs from net profit due to an asset ceiling.
The present value of as reported in the statement of profit or loss the defined benefit obligation is determined Dividend distribution because it excludes items of income or by discounting the estimated future cash Dividend distribution to the Companys expense that are taxable or deductible in outflows using discount rates set on the shareholders is recognised as a liability in other years or that are never taxable or basis of the yield of high-quality debt the Groups and Companys financial deductible.
The Groups and Companys instruments AA rated or equivalent issued statements in the period in which the liability for current tax is calculated using tax by blue chip companies, with maturities dividends are approved by the Companys rates that have been enacted or consistent with those of the defined shareholders.
substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Other payables Deferred tax is recognised on differences In respect of the defined benefit schemes Other payables are initially recognised at between the carrying amounts of assets and in the Netherlands and Belgium for Amlin fair value and subsequently measured at liabilities in the financial statements and the Europe N. V. the fair value of the plan amortised cost.
They represent liabilities corresponding tax bases used in the assets reflects the benefits that accrue to to pay for goods or services that have been computation of taxable profit, and is Amlin Europe N. V. under the insurance received or supplied in the normal course accounted for using the liability method.
policy taken out to meet its obligations.
of business, invoiced by the supplier before Deferred tax liabilities are generally This is also the case for Amlin Re Europes the period end, but for which payment has recognised for all taxable temporary defined benefit scheme.
differences and deferred tax assets are Pension contributions to defined contribution recognised to the extent that it is probable 2.
Capital plans are charged to profit or loss when due.
that taxable profits will be available against The capital structure of the Group consists which deductible temporary differences can of equity attributable to owners of the ii.
Equity compensation plans equity-settled be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not Company, comprising issued capital, The Company operates a number of recognised if the temporary difference arises reserves and retained earnings as disclosed executive and employee share schemes.
from goodwill or from the initial recognition in the consolidated statement of changes in Options issued after 7 November 2002 are other than in a business combination of equity and note 26, and subordinated debt accounted for using the fair value method other assets and liabilities in a transaction as disclosed in note 31.
For business where the cost for providing equity that affects neither the tax profit nor the planning purposes, account is also taken compensation is based on the fair value accounting profit.
of the Groups debt facilities as disclosed of the share option or award at the date in note 31. of the grant.
The fair value is calculated Deferred tax liabilities are recognised in using an option pricing model and the respect of taxable temporary differences The method by which the Group manages corresponding expense is recognised in arising on investments in subsidiaries and its capital base is described on page 33 of the statement of profit or loss over the associates, except where the Group and the Financial Management section.
The accrual for this charge Company is able to control the reversal of the During the current and prior periods, the is recognised in equity shareholders funds.
temporary difference and it is probable that Group complied with all external capital When the options are exercised, the the temporary difference will not reverse in requirements to which it is subject.
proceeds received net of any transaction the foreseeable future.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 125 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 125 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 2.
Capital continued for which a variable annual levy, for 2013 statutory financial statements and the In addition to regulatory capital requirements, of 0.5% 2012: 0.5% of Syndicate gross required capital is calculated as a fixed the Group believes that it should retain a level premium, is payable.
percentage of premiums, claims incurred of capital within the Group to allow it to grow and or net amounts at risk.
The SST is based The LCR is expected to be reviewed annually its business in the aftermath of a major on an economic view and required capital is by Lloyds as was the ICA previously and insurance disaster, but also to respond to other derived from an internal capital model.
The PRA expects opportunities to enhance long-term growth, for management to apply their rules Whilst the internal model is still subject to final example through acquisition.
If a firms capital falls below its approval by FINMA, it has been temporarily held by the Group is driven by the business ECA, steps must be taken to restore capital approved by FINMA until 31 December 2015. mix, nature and objectives of each division adequacy.
Due to the nature of the Lloyds Amlin AG calculates available and and its context within the wider Group.
capital setting process, FAL requirements required capital under the SST using the UK regulated entities are formally assessed and funded twice aforementioned model.
The minimum ratio Amlin Corporate Member Limited yearly at discrete periods and must be met for Solvency I as well as for the SST is set at Amlin Corporate Member Limited, which for the Syndicate to continue underwriting.
100% the SST minimum ratio became legally supports Syndicate 2001, is required to binding in 2011.
For both ratios Amlin AG At 31 December 2013, Amlin Corporate hold regulatory capital in compliance with exceeds the 100% minimum ratio.
Member Limited funded the agreed FAL the prudential rules issued by the UKs requirement of 649.6 million 2012: Under BMA regulations, Amlin AG is licensed Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and is 620.2 million to support underwriting for as a Class IV insurer and the minimum also subject to Lloyds capital requirements, the 2014 underwriting year.
Net of credit solvency margin is the greater of US$100 including maintaining Funds at Lloyds FAL.
for the reserve margin this equates to million, 50% of net premiums written in the Under PRA rules, the corporate member 540.6 million 2012: 542.7 million.
current financial year, 15% of claims reserves must hold capital in excess of the higher of and the Enhanced Capital Requirement ECR.
The increase of 29.4 million is largely driven two amounts.
The first is the Minimum by anticipated rate reductions for 2014 The ECR is calculated on an annual basis Capital Requirement MCR, as prescribed renewals, predominantly on catastrophe through either the Bermuda Solvency Capital by EU directives, calculated by applying fixed exposed accounts: and the impact of weaker Requirement BSCR model or an approved percentages to premium and claims and sterling rates of exchange at the time of internal model.
In addition, as a Class IV allowing for historic reinsurance recoveries.
insurer, the Company is required to maintain The second is an Individual Capital a minimum liquidity ratio such that the value The Group does not seek to retain any assets Assessment ICA calculated internally under of relevant assets is not less than 75% of its in excess of the Lloyds capital requirement the Individual Capital Adequacy Standards relevant liabilities.
Amlin AG met this within the Lloyds framework and any ICAS regime.
The ICA is defined as the requirement at 31 December 2013. surplus is paid to the corporate entities in level of capital that is required to contain the the Group.
For trading purposes, Amlin AG believes that probability of insolvency, over a one year it is necessary to hold at least US$1 billion of timeframe, to no greater than 0.5% 1:200.
Amlin Insurance UK Limited capital, which is currently in excess of the Amlin Insurance UK Limited is also Lloyds require the preparation of a Lloyds minimum required by the BMA and FINMA.
required to hold minimum levels of Capital Return LCR, including a statement regulatory capital in compliance with the Amlin Europe N. V. of financial position prepared under prudential rules issued by the PRA.
The Amlin Europe N. V. is required to hold Solvency II principles and the calculation of MCR for Amlin Insurance UK Limited is regulatory capital in compliance with an ultimate Solvency Capital Requirement currently the sterling equivalent of 3.7 the rules issued by its regulator uSCR.
The uSCR takes account of one year million 3.1 million.
In addition to holding fide Nederlandsche Bank DNB, and of new business in full attaching to the next overall admissible capital in excess of MCR, as prescribed by EU directives.
DNB underwriting year and the risks over the Amlin Insurance UK Limited is required to supervision comprises various qualitative lifetime of the liabilities to ultimate.
The pass a number of capital tests to assessments, governance requirements and requirements include risks for all business demonstrate solvency, with rules restricting minimum solvency levels.
Currently Amlin attaching to the next underwriting year.
This admissibility of certain types of capital.
Europe N. V. provides regulatory solvency is an equivalent recognition of risks and reporting to DNB, under the rules exposures at a 1:200 confidence level as Other regulated entities of Solvency I. required under ICAS at Lloyds.
Amlin AG At 31 December 2013, the minimum Amlin AG is supervised by the Swiss The final capital requirement, the Economic required capital for Amlin Europe N. V. Financial Market Supervisory Authority Capital Assessment ECA, is then subject to amounted to 95.8 million 2012: 105.3 FINMA as well as the Bermuda Monetary a minimum of 40% 2012: 40% of the million.
The minimum capital requirement Authority BMA.
Syndicates agreed premium capacity limit.
is calculated by applying fixed percentages At 31 December 2013, the agreed ECA as a FINMA supervision is composed of various to premiums and claims.
percentage of the agreed underwriting qualitative assessments, governance capacity for the following underwriting year requirements and minimum solvency levels.
Amlin AG provides regulatory solvency complied with external capital requirements.
reporting to FINMA, under the rules of For trading purposes, Amlin Europe N. V. The Syndicate also benefits from mutualised Solvency I and the Swiss Solvency Test holds capital in excess of the minimum capital within the Lloyds Central Fund, SST.
Solvency I is based on the Swiss required by the DNB.
126 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 126 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
Risk disclosures Insurance policies are written through in the damage factor calculation, can result 3.1 Underwriting risk individual risk acceptances, reinsurance in incurred catastrophe event claims higher, The Group accepts underwriting risk in treaties or through facilities whereby the or lower, than predicted due to unforeseen a range of classes of business through Group is bound by other underwriting circumstances, or inadequacies in data, Lloyds Syndicate 2001, Amlin Europe N. V. entities.
Facility arrangements delegate or the models used.
Amlin AG including its branch operation, underwriting authority to other underwriters, As explained on page 136, reinsurance Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Insurance UK or to agents acting as coverholders, that use is purchased to protect against the impact Limited.
Syndicate 2001s portfolio is their judgement to write risks on the Groups of any individual or series of severe underwritten by Amlin London and Amlin behalf under clear authority levels.
The bias of the Groups portfolio is The insurance policies underwritten by the availability of such cover is variable and the towards short-tail property and accident risk Group are reviewed on an individual risk, amount of loss retained by the Group may but liability coverage is also underwritten.
or contract, basis and through review of therefore also increase or reduce.
The In underwriting insurance or reinsurance portfolio performance.
Claims arising are Group will alter its insurance and policies, the Groups underwriters use their reserved upon notification.
Each quarter the reinsurance exposures to take account of skill and knowledge to assess each risk.
entire portfolio of business is subject to a changes in reinsurance availability and cost, Exposure information and data on past reserving process whereby levels of paid capital levels and profitability in order to claims experience is used to evaluate the and outstanding advised but not paid remain within the risk appetite guidelines.
likely claims cost and therefore the premium claims are reviewed.
Potential future claims Sections A and B below describe the that should be sufficient across a portfolio are assessed with a provision for incurred insurance and reinsurance portfolios written of risks to cover claims costs, expenses and but not reported IBNR claims being made.
by the Group and the associated risks of to produce an acceptable profit.
However, Whilst a detailed and disciplined exercise is such business.
Section C summarises the due to the nature of insurance risk, there is carried out to provide for claims notified, it business written by each operating division.
no guarantee that the premium charged is possible that known claims could develop will be sufficient to cover claims costs.
and exceed the reserves carried.
Direct insurance and facultative This shortfall may originate either from reinsurance Furthermore, there is increased uncertainty insufficient premium being calculated and The geographic spread, based on the country in establishing an accurate provision for IBNR charged or may result from an unexpected, in which the risk is located, of all direct claims and there is a possibility that claims or unprecedented, high level of claims.
insurance and facultative reinsurance classes may arise which, in aggregate, exceed the is shown below: A number of controls are deployed to reserve provision established.
This is partly control the amount of insurance exposure mitigated by the reserving policy adopted by 2013 Direct insurance and underwritten.
Each year a business plan is the Group which is to carry reserves in excess facultative reinsurance prepared and agreed by the boards of Amlin of the strict 50:50 actuarial best estimate.
Gross written premium by geography plc and its subsidiaries.
This plan is used to The review of claims arising may result in monitor the amount of premium income, underwriters adjusting pricing levels to cater and exposure, written in total and for each for an unexpectedly higher trend of claims class of business.
Progress against this plan advices or payments.
However, this may not is monitored during the year.
be possible in a competitive market and Apart from the UK, European and underwriters may respond either by international comprehensive motor liability accepting business with lower expected portfolios, which have unlimited liability, profit margins or declining to renew policies all policies have a per loss limit which caps and thus reducing income.
Also, there is a the size of any individual claim.
For larger portfolio of risks already underwritten which sum insured risks, facultative reinsurance cannot be re-priced until renewal at the end coverage may be purchased.
The Group of the policy period.
UK 31% Oceania 2% operates line guides that determine the Europe 25% Central & S. America 2% The Group is exposed to the impact of large North America 19% Africa 1% maximum liability per policy that can be catastrophe events such as windstorms, Asia 3% Worldwide Other 15% written for each class on a gross or net of Caribbean 2% earthquakes or terrorist incidents.
Exposure facultative reinsurance basis by each to such events is controlled and measured underwriter.
These limits can be exceeded Gross written premium is stated gross of acquistion costs through loss modelling.
The Groups broad and excludes adjustments in respect of prior periods.
in exceptional circumstances with the risk appetite guidelines are set out on page approval of senior management.
It is possible that a catastrophe event The Group is also exposed to catastrophe could exceed the maximum expected event losses which may impact many risks in a loss.
This is particularly the case for the single event.
Reinsurance is purchased direct property proportion of the loss to limit the impact of loss aggregation exposure, where models are used to from such events.
These reinsurance calculate a damage factor representing the arrangements are described in the amount of damage expected to exposed section on page 136. aggregate insured values from a particular scenario.
Errors, or incorrect assumptions Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 127 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 127 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued authority levels for coverholders stipulated Professional lines liability cover is written within the binding authority agreement, by a dedicated underwriting team.
This class 2012 Direct insurance and regularly monitoring performance and includes professional indemnity cover given facultative reinsurance periodically carrying out underwriting visits to US lawyers, accountants, architects Gross written premium by geography and or commissioning third-party audits.
The coverholder is incentivised to produce The casualty portfolio is mostly written an underwriting profit through the payment on a claims notified basis responding to of profit commission.
However, with the day all claims made during a defined period to day underwriting not controlled by the except for small amounts of general liability Group, there is a risk that coverholder business which may be written on a losses underwriting, or claim decisions, are made occurring basis the policy responds to which would not have been made by Amlin losses which occur during the period even underwriters or claims staff.
if reported after the policy has expired.
As well as natural catastrophes, the property Claims from this class emanate from portfolio is also exposed to an above average professional error, negligence or an accident frequency of individual fire, explosion or which causes injury, damage or financial UK 32% Central & S. America 2% weather related claims.
The account is vulnerable to a high Europe 24% Africa 1% North America 19% Caribbean 1% charged for the coverage given may not be frequency of claims, but not individual large Asia 3% Worldwide Other 16% sufficient to cover all claims made in any losses as the cost to the Group of any Oceania 2% year, particularly in a year in which there is individual claim is small due to line size.
Gross written premium is stated gross of acquistion costs an abnormal frequency of claims.
The US Claims frequency may be impacted by a and excludes adjustments in respect of prior periods.
account is particularly exposed to large generic claim type which impacts many catastrophe events, such as California individuals and re insurance policies such A. i Property direct and facultative earthquake, tornado and hurricane losses.
as poor housing design or bad medical Property cover is provided to large practice.
The size of many individual claims commercial enterprises with high-value, In the UK, standalone property protection is subject to the decisions arising from the single locations and or many locations, and is written mainly on a 100% basis for small US court system which can be higher than also for small commercial property.
The and medium commercial and household anticipated.
There is also the potential for perils covered include fire, flood, wind and properties.
Package policies combine one or US courts to impose a bad faith judgement earthquake damage.
Business interruption more liability coverages mainly employers on insurers if it is deemed that the insurer cover is also provided for loss of earnings and public liability with motor and or has acted improperly in trying to avoid sustained due to the perils and properties property damage protection.
Such awards can, covered but may also be extended to This portfolio is exposed to European in exceptional circumstances, be much connected enterprises.
weather conditions whereby a large higher than the value of the insurance claim.
windstorm, flood or winter freeze could There may also be a risk of contingent The Groups international liability portfolio result in a large number of small claims.
predominantly protects insureds domiciled Terrorism cover is given on a limited basis, The European property account mainly in the UK, Ireland, France, Belgium and the particularly where required by local comprises large schedules of properties Netherlands.
There is also some Canadian regulation, but nuclear and bio-chemical e. g. for municipalities written on a cobusiness.
An international casualty team was coverage is excluded from standard property insurance basis in the Netherlands and larger established in 2012 to develop business in cover in most territories.
commercial industrial clients in Belgium and other territories, including Australia.
Overseas exposure is written mainly portfolio of professional indemnity and Property insurance is written for the full value from the large commercial industrial portfolio general liability business is written in the of the risk, on a primary or excess of loss where there are client or other incidental Netherlands, on a claims made basis with basis, through individual placements, or by operations overseas.
The engineering book a particular focus on property related way of delegated underwriting facilities given includes contractors all risks, machinery professions and miscellaneous professions to coverholders binding authorities.
breakdown and some computer equipment.
In Belgium, Binding authority arrangements delegate medical liability and general liability are A. ii Casualty direct insurance the day-to-day underwriting to underwriting written on a losses occurring basis.
The US casualty insurance account provides agents and therefore, for these contracts, the insurance cover to individuals, or In the UK and Ireland employers liability Group is reliant on coverholders exercising companies, in order to indemnify them insurance protects employers against underwriting judgement on its behalf.
against legal liability arising from their accident or injury to employees.
This is Coverholders must have local regulatory activities and actions or for incidents written on a losses occurring basis.
approval including Lloyds where relevant, occurring on their property.
and also be approved by the Local Binding Public liability insurance in the same Authority Committees.
The portfolio is made up of specialist general territories provides coverage, often written For binding authority facilities, the Group casualty, professional indemnity, medical in conjunction with employers liability, for receives monthly or quarterly bordereaux malpractice and errors and omissions cover.
accident or injury occurring to clients, which are checked by underwriting staff.
The Small amounts of directors and officers customers or other third parties as a result underwriting is controlled by setting clear liability and auto liability are also written.
of contact with the insureds personnel, 128 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 128 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS property or products.
This is written on company executive fleets.
A small UK subject to a high frequency of claim and a losses occurring basis.
agriculture facility, a taxi book and significant medical cost inflation.
Personal a specialist private car account are accident insurance could be impacted by a Professional indemnity business written also written.
single or series of accidents to high-value in the UK covers liability which may arise insured individuals or from a multiple death from services provided by the assured, for The Benelux commercial motor account and injury event such as an air crash or example, as a result of negligence or error is comprised of domestic company fleets natural catastrophe.
which may lead to financial or physical loss.
including a large leasing and rental fleets, This includes, but is not limited to, services portfolio written in the Netherlands and a A. v Marine and aviation direct from architects, engineers, surveyors, smaller portfolio in Belgium.
Cars, vans or insurance and facultative reinsurance advertising firms, medical professionals commercial vehicles account for over 70% The hull and cargo account is worldwide, and financial advisors.
This portfolio is of the book.
covering property damage to ships and loss, written on a claims made basis.
or damage, to a large variety of cargo or Claims frequency has improved in recent goods in transit.
The hull account can include Through AUA Insolvency Risk Services years due to car and road safety measures, machinery breakdown and the portfolio Limited, a Financial Conduct Authority FCA but can fluctuate due to factors such as written includes lower-value tonnage, smaller registered broker, the Group writes a weather conditions.
Inflation is a key factor brown water vessels and fishing boats as portfolio of UK insolvency practitioners in determining the size of motor claims.
Car well as larger blue water ocean hull risks business providing protection against fraud values affect the size of theft claims and for such as cruise liners, tankers and bulk or negligence committed by the physical damage claims size is linked to carriers.
These accounts can be impacted practitioners.
Such cover also protects the repair costs.
Inflationary pressure on court by attritional claims of a small size as well property assets under their management.
awards within the European legal systems as a single individual large claim.
The cargo impacts liability claim values.
This issue is The Group also writes a small account of account in particular could also be involved evidenced in the UK through the provision financial institutions policies covering fidelity, in a major natural catastrophe loss.
In an for Periodic Payment Orders PPOs which professional indemnity and directors and economic recession, it is expected that spread insurers payment liabilities for bodily officers liability for companies providing premium income will fall as trade reduces and injury claims over future years.
Approximately half of the hull values are impacted by reduced freight intervention, such as liability award limit income is from western European financial rates.
It is also possible that claims frequency changes or expense recoveries for institutions with the balance spread broadly could increase due to increased economic government bodies, for example the UK by territory.
Coverage is given on a claims pressures affecting fraud and theft claims.
National Health Service, will also impact made basis.
For the motor account, severe The Benelux portfolio includes a The expected claims costs from these lines bodily injury and catastrophe damage commodities book for Belgian and French of business may be impacted by larger than claims e. g. UK flood are limited through trading corporations, in addition to hull, land anticipated damage awards to injured parties, the purchase of a reinsurance programme, equipment, shipbuilders risk, inland hull as well as due to an unforeseen increase in the highest layer of which is unlimited.
generic claims such as industrial disease or Motor insurance is a highly competitive The energy portfolio is mainly offshore rig other health hazards.
It is expected that area of insurance and pricing levels and construction policies, which may be claims frequency will increase during an fluctuate.
Whilst underwriters accept impacted by large individual claims from economic downturn as unemployment leads business subject to sufficient rates per construction fault or property damage such to an increase in action against employers vehicle, in a year where there is an as fire or explosion, but is also exposed and people are more likely to seek redress for unexpectedly high level of claims to severe catastrophe losses, for example, third party advice or behaviour which may the total premium may not be sufficient to in the North Sea and Gulf of Mexico.
The have led to financial loss or injury.
It is also cover all the claims.
There is also a risk that account includes control of well to limit possible that multiple claims could arise under legal changes impact bodily injury payments loss of oil and avoid pollution and also multiple policies from a common cause such and result in a requirement to increase some business interruption cover which as financial advice or generic building defects.
indemnifies companies for loss The financial institutions account could be of production.
affected by a major fraud or a series of related Auto business is also written covering liability claims arising from banking, property damage only fire, theft and War business includes marine, aviation and investment activity, stockbroking or collision in the US and property damage on land terrorism coverage.
The account is other practices.
and third party motor liability combined exposed to single incidents or a series of cover in other international territories.
This losses arising from concerted action.
A. iii Motor direct insurance class could be impacted by unexpected Political risk, confiscation and contract The Groups UK motor insurance account claim frequency, a multi vehicle event, such frustration business is also written.
provides protection for fire, theft, collision as a severe flood and also large bodily injury and third party property and bodily injury Yacht business covers property damage and award claims emanating from an accident.
Under the requirements of UK law, third party injury for small leisure boats and third party liability coverage is unlimited, A. iv Personal accident direct insurance craft.
The UK domestic account is comprised but matching reinsurance is purchased.
The accident and health class is written of smaller value yachts in the UK and The account is biased towards commercial through medical expense schemes in the US Europe, although there are a number of clients such as coach operators, haulage and direct personal accident cover on a binders written by coverholders elsewhere, companies, commercial vehicle fleets and worldwide basis.
Medical expense cover is such as Scandinavia, Canada and Australia.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 129 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 129 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued The aviation airline account is exposed B.
Treaty reinsurance There is an expectation of a large number to large claims arising from property The geographic spread, based on the of small claims, as average values are low damage, death or injury arising from aircraft country in which the risk is located, of all in comparison to other policies written in the accidents.
The domicile of the airline and treaty reinsurance classes is shown below: Group.
Third party liability yacht claims arise passengers has a notable influence on the 2013 Treaty reinsurance from injury or damage caused by one of our cost of claims, for example, US court awards Gross written premium by geography policyholders to third parties.
There is also are generally higher.
The general aviation the potential for a large catastrophe loss, account covers smaller aircraft or cargo and such as a UK windstorm, where there are covers owners or operators, against loss or large aggregate sums insured in coastal damage and third party injury.
The risk regions such as southern England.
Amlin excess account is a book of general aviation Europe and the wholly owned coverholder reinsurance business written to protect a Lead Yacht write shares of a portfolio of small number of insurers against large large private yachts.
The marine liability portfolio is written to Airport liability insurance covers airport protect ship-owners, harbours, charterers operators, refuellers and air traffic and energy companies against damage or controllers against losses arising from injury injury to crew or third parties.
This includes caused by their activities or occurring on the potential for pollution damage and clean their premises.
Product liability covers North America 45% Oceania 4% Europe 24% Africa 1% up claims.
The account could suffer a large manufacturers against accidents arising UK 11% Central & S. America 1% catastrophe incident from a collision causing from faulty parts or equipment, or poor Asia 7% Worldwide Other 2% death of crew and passengers or an oil, or servicing of aircraft.
Both airport and Caribbean 5% chemical, spill which could incur large product liability coverage is written on a Gross written premium is stated gross of acquistion costs clean up costs.
losses occurring basis, meaning that claims and excludes adjustments in respect of prior periods.
advices can be made after the policy has Specie, bloodstock and livestock business expired.
Space liability insurance covers 2012 Treaty reinsurance are also written within the Marine and launch and operation of satellites whilst Gross written premium by geography Aviation Business Unit of Syndicate 2001. in orbit for a limited period, normally Specie business consists of the insurance of one year.
against damage or theft to fine art, the The aviation account is subject to both small contents of vaults and other high-value and large claims.
Claims involving loss of life goods including jewellers block and cash or serious injury to high-earning passengers in transit.
The fine art may be shown at or third parties are subject to the ongoing exhibitions which have very high aggregate inflation of court awards particularly in the values at risk.
The class is therefore exposed US.
Large accidents involving the potential to the potential for a frequency of small death of 500 or more passengers are claims and also large individual losses.
feasible and could potentially result in a Some specie is written in catastrophe gross claim to the business of more than zones, e. g. California, and may be exposed the vertical reinsurance programme if, for North America 44% Oceania 5% to terrorist events.
example, two large aircraft were to collide.
Europe 21% Africa 1% UK 12% Central & S. America 1% The bloodstock account provides coverage Asia 9% Worldwide Other 2% A. vi Special risks direct insurance for death, illness or injury to horses mainly Caribbean 5% The direct special risks class is largely made in the UK.
Business from the US, Australia up of insurance of nuclear installations, and South Africa is also written.
This covers Gross written premium is stated gross of acquistion costs contingency business and film finance risk.
and excludes adjustments in respect of prior periods.
racing or eventing horses and breeding studs.
The average value insured is below Transmission and distribution business is B. i Property reinsurance 1 million but there is the potential for an also written.
This account is generally written Catastrophe reinsurance protects insurance aggregate loss, such as a stable fire, without reinsurance protection.
companies against catastrophic losses, such which could cause multiple claims.
as windstorm or earthquake, which may There is a small portfolio of captive business impact more than one risk written by the Crowe Livestock, a leading Lloyds written in Belgium where Amlin Europe acts client.
The catastrophe excess of loss coverholder for the insurance of livestock, as a fronting carrier for captive reinsurers portfolio is a key part of the reinsurance risk writes a broad portfolio of protection for of large industrial companies.
Captives are written by the Group.
livestock and specialist products such as zoo subject to detailed financial analysis to animals, with a maximum line of any one manage potential credit risk.
These programmes are placed on a layered policy of US$10 million.
The company also or excess of loss basis.
Territorial exposures, writes employers liability cover for livestock from a number of programmes, are carefully business up to a limit of 10 million.
Again, recorded and analysed through loss an event affecting several animals across simulations or realistic disaster scenarios but many policies such as disease could result represent significant loss exposure to natural in a loss significantly higher than this.
130 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 130 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Aggregate excess of loss programmes are B. iii Motor reinsurance also written providing protection in the event Motor reinsurance is written on a of multiple loss events.
proportional and excess of loss basis.
This portfolio is at risk from increases in Per risk property reinsurance is also written frequency or severity of motor accident on an excess of loss basis but covers loss claims and bodily injury or third party or damage to any single risk within the property claims payments which may reinsureds portfolio.
This portfolio protects take several years to settle.
Unlimited and insureds against large individual property limited motor business is written.
Whilst losses and will also be affected by large the original premium and the investment catastrophe losses.
income generated are expected to be more Proportional property reinsurance covers than sufficient to meet such claims, there is a proportionate share of a reinsureds no guarantee that this will be the case, portfolio of business subject to payment particularly due to inflation or of commission and or profit commission.
superimposed inflation resulting from Proportional property business is normally changes to court awards.
The aim is to written with an occurrence limit.
diversify the portfolio across several territories in order to reduce the impact The Groups portfolio of property of a single legal jurisdiction revising its reinsurance business is written with the claims policy.
aim of achieving territorial diversification.
However, as experienced in 2011, a single B. iv Personal accident reinsurance or series of severe catastrophes to major Personal accident reinsurance is written economic zones in Europe, Japan, on a worldwide basis.
Such business could Australasia or the US is likely to result in a be impacted by a single or series of loss to the portfolio prior to retrocessional accidents to high value insured individuals reinsurance.
For each operating division, or from a multiple death and injury event, overall catastrophe loss limits are applied in such as an air crash or natural catastrophe.
relation to specific scenarios as an allocation B. v Marine and aviation reinsurance of total Group tolerances.
The Groups portfolio of aviation and B. ii Casualty reinsurance marine excess of loss reinsurance protects The US casualty reinsurance account insurers against losses to their direct provides cover for reinsureds in respect of portfolios of business on a worldwide basis.
legal liability arising from insureds activities This will include offshore energy business, and actions or for incidents occurring on specie and other static risks written in insureds properties.
The portfolio is written reinsured companies marine portfolios.
on both an excess of loss and proportional The marine account, in particular, is basis but most underlying policies are on a exposed to catastrophe losses as well as claims notified basis responding to all large individual risk losses.
claims made during a defined period.
The B. vi Special risks reinsurance portfolio includes specialist general casualty, The special risks reinsurance account is professional indemnity, medical malpractice predominantly made up of terrorism excess and errors and omissions cover.
Small of loss and nuclear reinsurance emanating amounts of directors and officers liability from all parts of the world and written and auto liability are also written.
without excess of loss reinsurance US Workers Compensation Act casualty protection.
The portfolio also includes shortclass excess of loss business may be term trade credit and contingency business impacted by large catastrophic events as well as trade credit reinsurance which such as earthquake.
protects reinsureds against the non-payment of monies or goods or services due from International liability reinsurance business is trade partners locally or overseas.
Satellite mainly general third party liability protecting physical damage cover is also written in the companies against significant public or special risks account.
products liability claims, written on a proportional or excess of loss basis.
The liability account also includes some professional liability reinsurance.
The construction and engineering portfolio provides liability and property reinsurance cover for construction projects which may be of several years duration.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 131 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 131 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued C. Business written and maximum risk limit by operating divisions Direct insurance and facultative reinsurance Amlin Amlin Amlin London UK Europe Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Gross Gross Gross London UK Europe London UK Europe written written written Max Max Max Average Average Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2013 m m m m m m m m m i Property direct and facultative Direct and facultative property 123 23 2 Binding authorities 41 21 UK Europe property package 123 104 52 42 1 3 ii Casualty direct insurance International casualty 22 17 6 Casualty 31 3 1 Professional lines 13 7 1 Employers liability 25 27 10 Liability 81 11 2 Public products liability 23 12 4 Financial institutions fidelity and liability 7 16 2 Professional indemnity 45 16 2 Engineering 22 21 3 iii Motor direct insurance US International auto 35 1 1 UK Europe motor 154 43 Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited iv Personal accident direct insurance Accident and health 26 31 v Marine and aviation direct insurance and facultative reinsurance Hull 47 69 13 21 2 2 Cargo 36 43 20 21 6 1 Energy 57 25 4 War and terrorism 33 50 9 Specie 16 24 6 Bloodstock livestock 24 4 1 Yacht hull & liability 34 5 2 Liability 39 33 7 Protection and indemnity 55 42 14 Airline hull & liability 20 67 23 General aviation hull & liability 14 40 14 Risk excess 4 57 7 Airports liability 8 57 24 Products 5 50 19 Space liability vi Special risks direct insurance Special risks 7 18 97 21 5 4 Total direct insurance and facultative reinsurance 635 377 435 Note: 1.
Amlin London limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a rate of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and Amlin Europe limits are set in euros converted to sterling at a rate of exchange of 1 1.2.
Therefore, currency rate of exchange changes may increase or reduce the sterling limits.
Amlin London maximum line size is after business written and ceded by specific proportional treaties to Amlin Bermuda.
Gross written premium is stated gross of acquisition costs and excludes adjustments in respect of prior periods.
Gross written premiums are converted to sterling using the year end average rates set out in note 33.
132 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 132 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amlin Amlin Amlin London UK Europe Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Gross Gross Gross London UK Europe London UK Europe written written written Max Max Max Average Average Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2012 m m m m m m m m m i Property direct and facultative Direct and facultative property 112 23 3 Binding authorities 33 2 1 UK Europe property package 140 110 52 42 1 4 ii Casualty direct insurance International casualty 3 17 8 Casualty 19 3 1 Professional lines 6 7 1 Employers liability 22 27 10 Liability 79 11 2 Public products liability 24 12 4 Financial institutions fidelity and liability 7 6 6 2 2 Professional indemnity 38 16 2 Engineering 22 21 3 iii Motor direct insurance US International auto 28 1 1 UK Europe motor 132 37 Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited Unlimited iv Personal accident direct insurance Accident and health 30 3 1 v Marine and aviation direct insurance and facultative reinsurance Hull 40 65 13 21 2 3 Cargo 31 59 20 21 5 1 Energy 67 25 4 War and terrorism 34 50 10 Specie 15 24 6 Bloodstock livestock 27 4 1 Yacht hull & liability 30 5 2 Liability 36 57 6 Protection and indemnity 61 42 17 Airline hull & liability 19 83 26 General aviation hull & liability 8 57 15 Risk excess 5 57 8 Airports liability 8 57 27 Products 5 50 20 Space liability 2 40 14 vi Special risks direct insurance Special risks 6 19 97 21 8 4 Total direct insurance and facultative reinsurance 564 363 452 Note: 1.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 133 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 133 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued C. Business written and maximum risk limit by operating divisions Treaty reinsurance Amlin Amlin Amlin London Bermuda Re Europe Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Gross Gross Gross London Bermuda Re Europe London Bermuda Re Europe written written written Max Max Max Average Average Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2013 m m m m m m m m m i Property reinsurance Catastrophe reinsurance per programme 270 183 33 57 50 17 4 4 3 Per risk property reinsurance per 63 35 16 23 9 17 2 2 2 programme Proportional reinsurance 58 73 47 5 9 17 1 1 1 Engineering 23 17 2 ii Casualty reinsurance International casualty Casualty 38 9 3 3 1 1 Liability 26 17 1 iii Motor reinsurance Motor limited 45 17 2 iv Personal accident reinsurance Accident and health 9 31 Personal accident 2 2 7 17 3 1 v Marine and aviation reinsurance Marine reinsurance per programme 27 4 7 76 50 17 2 4 1 Aviation reinsurance per programme 6 31 2 vi Special risks reinsurance Special risks 29 35 6 38 27 17 3 3 3 Surety 2 4 1 Total treaty reinsurance 500 341 207 Note: 1.
Amlin London and Amlin Bermuda limits are set in US dollars converted to sterling at a rate of exchange of 1 US$1.5 and Amlin Re Europe limits are set in euros converted to sterling at a rate of exchange of 1 1.2.
134 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 134 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Amlin Amlin Amlin London Bermuda Re Europe Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Gross Gross Gross London Bermuda Re Europe London Bermuda Re Europe written written written Max Max Max Average Average Average premium premium premium line size line size line size line size line size line size At 31 December 2012 m m m m m m m m m i Property reinsurance Catastrophe reinsurance per programme 274 196 32 57 50 17 4 5 3 Per risk property reinsurance per programme 71 38 17 23 9 17 2 2 3 Proportional reinsurance 42 48 37 5 9 17 2 1 1 Engineering 18 17 1 ii Casualty reinsurance International casualty 1 17 4 Casualty 36 633 1 1 Liability 11 17 1 iii Motor reinsurance Motor limited 36 17 2 iv Personal accident reinsurance Accident and health Personal accident 2 2 7 17 3 1 v Marine and aviation reinsurance Marine reinsurance per programme 25 2 7 76 50 17 2 9 1 Aviation reinsurance per programme 4 31 2 vi Special risks reinsurance Special risks 27 42 5 38 27 17 3 3 2 Surety 14 1 Total treaty reinsurance 480 334 166 Note: 1.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 135 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 135 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued international losses at a similar level to the to cover the expected claims arising on the Reinsurance and other risk mitigation Amlin London placement.
With effect from original portfolio.
However, it is possible for arrangements 1 January 2014, increased lower level cover there to be a mismatch, or a gap in cover, Syndicate 2001 purchases proportional and restructured vertical protection have which would result in a higher than expected reinsurance to supplement line size and to replaced the expiring combined aggregate retained loss.
reduce exposure on individual risks, notably and catastrophe excess of loss programme.
Many parts of the programme also have for large property risks.
Part of the premium Amlin Re Europe places quota share and limited reinstatements and therefore the ceded under such facilities is placed with catastrophe excess of loss reinsurance to number of claims which may be recovered Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Europe N. V. Since protect the property portfolio.
Motor excess from second or subsequent major losses is 2009, a separate proportional facility has of loss protection is also purchased.
It is possible for the programme to protected the excess of loss reinsurance be exhausted by a series of losses in one portfolio through a Special Purpose Syndicate Amlin Europe N. V. purchases a annual period and it may not be possible to SPS at Lloyds, Syndicate 6106.
The SPS comprehensive programme for each class purchase additional reinsurance at all or for was not renewed at 1 January 2014. of business.
Specific cover is placed for an acceptable price.
This would result in the engineering, personal accident, motor, liability Syndicate 2001 purchases a number of Group bearing higher losses from further and marine exposures.
The property account excess of loss reinsurances to protect itself events occurring.
It should also be noted is protected by both per risk and catastrophe from severe frequency or size of losses.
that the renewal date of the reinsurance excess of loss programmes, with the latter The structure of the programme and type programmes does not necessarily additionally protecting European property of protection bought will vary from year correspond to that of the business written.
business written by Amlin UK.
to year depending on the availability and Where business is not protected by risk price of cover.
In December 2011, the Group acquired attaching reinsurance which provides coverage for US hurricane, US earthquake coverage for the duration of all the policies On large risks, individual facultative and European windstorm perils of up to written this reinsurance protection could reinsurance may be bought which protects US$150 million from a Bermudian special expire resulting in an increase in possible against a loss to that specific risk.
purpose insurer, Tramline Re Ltd, which in loss retained by the Group if renewal of Specific risk excess of loss reinsurance is turn placed a catastrophe bond into the the programme is not achieved.
purchased for each class of business.
This transaction provides the Realistic Disaster Scenario RDS analysis amount of cover bought depends upon the Group with fully collateralised protection over The Group has a defined event risk tolerance line size written for each class.
The a three year period from 1 January 2012 and which determines the maximum net loss deductibles, or amounts borne prior to is in addition to the protection the Group that the Group intends to limit its exposure recovery, vary from class to class as do the purchases through the traditional reinsurance with respect to major modelled catastrophe amounts of co-reinsurance or unplaced marketplace.
The bond provides significant event scenarios.
Currently this is a maximum protection.
Specific programmes are protection against a remote aggregation of of 350 million for the Group.
The Group purchased to deal with large individual risk catastrophe events for the Group.
Through the Underwriting Risk team are responsible losses, such as fire or large energy losses, use of an aggregate trigger it protects against for aggregating potential scenarios and and these programmes may be combined both severity and frequency of losses.
at 1 January 2014, levels of exposure were at a higher level into a general programme In July 2013, the Group acquired coverage for below the potential maximum tolerance, for larger losses.
US and Canadian earthquake perils of up to one of the largest being the North-East US UK direct property business is protected by US$75 million from a Bermudian special windstorm scenario at 279 million for the a European wind programme which also purpose insurer, Tramline Re II Ltd, which in Group.
At present the Group is not utilising protects Amlin Europe N. V. turn placed a catastrophe bond into the the full extent of its risk tolerance.
This transaction provides the The combined claims to Syndicate 2001 from These scenarios are extraordinary events Group with fully collateralised protection over several policies which may aggregate in a with an occurrence probability of less than a four year period from 1 July 2013 and is in single catastrophe event are protected by 1 in 100 years estimated for natural peril or addition to the protection the Group catastrophe cover.
A separate excess of loss elemental losses.
The Group also adopts risk purchases through the traditional reinsurance programme is purchased to protect the tolerance maximum net limits for a number marketplace.
The bond provides protection excess of loss reinsurance portfolio against of other non-elemental scenarios, including against a remote catastrophic event for such losses.
aviation collision and North Sea rig loss.
For 2014, the Florida windstorm deductible is The risk tolerance policy recognises that There is no guarantee that reinsurance US$75 million for a first loss with lower there may be circumstances in which the coverage will be available to meet all potential deductibles applicable for second and net event limit could be exceeded.
Such loss circumstances as, for very severe subsequent losses.
Lower deductibles apply circumstances include changes in rates of catastrophe losses, it is possible that the full for other territories and perils.
Aggregate exchange, non-renewal or delay in renewal extent of the cover bought is not sufficient.
protection has been renewed to provide lower of reinsurance protection, reinsurance Any loss amount which exceeds the level cover in the event of multiple losses to security failure, or regulatory and programme would be retained by the Group.
It is also possible that a dispute could arise The excess of loss programme purchased by with a reinsurer which reduces the recovery Amlin Bermuda provides first event cover for made.
The reinsurance programme is bought 136 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 136 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A detailed analysis of catastrophe exposures service companies and Amlin Europe, Amlin relates to future events occurring to the is carried out every quarter and measured Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe, directly existing portfolio is removed in order to reflect against risk tolerance.
The following from brokers and policyholders.
Claims generally accepted accounting practice.
assumptions and procedures are used in records are maintained for each policy and The actuarial team independently produce the process: class.
For notified or outstanding claims, a ultimate premium and claims projections on case reserve is established based on the  The data used reflects the information a strict best estimate basis utilising the same views of underwriting management and supplied to the Group by insureds and data as the underwriting and claims teams.
claims managers, using external legal or ceding companies.
This may prove to be Meetings are held for each Division in which expert advice where appropriate.
This incomplete, inaccurate or could develop executive management, actuarial staff and reserve is expected to be sufficient to meet during the policy period: business management discuss claims issues the claim payment when it is finally and the estimates produced by the  The exposures are modelled using a determined.
For some classes of business, underwriting and claim teams are compared mixture of stochastic models and particularly liability business, settlement may against the actuarial estimates.
Any underwriter input to arrive at damage be several years after the initial notification unexpected differences are discussed and factors these factors are then applied of the claim, as it may be subject to investigated further if necessary.
Best to the assumed aggregate exposure to complexities or court action.
For claims estimate IBNR is adjusted in a similar produce gross loss estimates.
The damage received from Xchanging plc, the market manner to the proposed IBNR in order to factors may prove to be inadequate: reserve is generally set by the lead remove the element that relates to future  The reinsurance programme as underwriter, but there are circumstances on events and is once more compared with the purchased is applied a provision for larger claims where the Group will post proposed IBNR.
All of this is undertaken for reinsurer counterparty failure is included higher reserves than those notified.
inwards business gross of reinsurance and in the analysis but may prove to be To assist with the process of determining for outwards reinsurance separately.
inadequate: and the reserves, triangulation statistics for each Amlin Europe and Amlin Re Europe  Reinstatement premiums both payable class are produced which show the historical For Amlin Europe and Amlin Re Europe the and receivable are included.
development of premium, as well as paid and process is similar to that for Amlin London, incurred losses, for each underwriting year There is no guarantee that the assumptions Amlin UK and Amlin Bermuda except for the using either accident year or underwriting and techniques deployed in calculating these following differences.
The underwriting and year cohorts.
In all cases, the different event loss estimate figures are accurate.
actuarial teams together produce a proposed potential development of each class of best estimate onto which an appropriate Furthermore, there could also be a loss business is fully recognised.
The development margin is added and there is therefore only which exceeds these figures.
The likelihood period varies by class, by method of one set of numbers for discussion.
For Amlin of such a catastrophe is considered to be acceptance and is also determined by the Europe, given that data is readily available in remote, but the most severe scenarios deductible of each policy written.
For casualty this format, triangles with accident year modelled are simulated events and these business, the policy form will determine cohorts are used together with earned simulations could prove to be unreliable.
whether claims can be made on a claims premiums to estimate the IBNR required made as advised or as a losses occurring Insurance liabilities and reinsurance on a GAAP basis directly.
Triangles on an determined by date of loss basis.
This has a assets: Calculation of incurred but not underwriting year basis are available for significant impact on the reporting period in reported IBNR and claims development Amlin Europe marine business and which claims can be notified.
The Group adopts a rigorous process in the projections based on those triangles calculation of an adequate provision for Amlin London, Amlin UK and Amlin also feed into the reserving discussions.
The overriding aim Bermuda During 2014, it is anticipated that the is to establish reserves which are expected To establish a provision for IBNR claims, the reserving process for Amlin London, to be at least adequate and that there is underwriting and claims teams in the UK and Amlin UK and Amlin Bermuda will transition consistency from year to year.
Therefore, Bermuda use their experience and knowledge towards the process currently adopted in the level of reserves are set at a level above of the class of business to estimate the Amlin Europe and Amlin Re Europe.
the strict 50:50 actuarial best estimate potential future development of each class for position.
However, there is a risk that, due every underwriting year.
In setting the IBNR Areas of uncertainty to unforeseen circumstances, the reserves provision estimates are made for the ultimate The reserves established can be more or carried are not sufficient to meet insurance premium and ultimate gross claims value for less than adequate to meet eventual claims claim liabilities reported in future years on each underwriting year.
The level of uncertainty varies policy periods which have expired.
made for anticipated reinsurance recoveries significantly from class to class but can to reach a net claim position.
Reinsurance arise from inadequate case reserves for Process and methodology recoveries are calculated for outstanding and known large losses and catastrophes or The reserving process commences with the IBNR claims, sometimes through the use of from inadequate provision for IBNR claims.
proper recording and reporting of claims historical recovery rates or statistical The impact on profit before tax of a 1% information which consists of paid and projections, and provisions are made as improvement deterioration in the total net notified or outstanding claims.
For the appropriate for bad debt or possible disputes.
claims reserves would be 25.5 million London market business information is The component of ultimate IBNR provision gain loss 2012: 26.0 million.
received through Xchanging plc the London estimates and reinsurance recoveries that market bureau and, in the case of Amlin UK Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 137 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 137 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued a stochastic financial model.
This enables The result reproduced in the table below Large loss case reserves are determined standalone modelling for each entity as well represents the modelled capital amounts through careful analysis of the individual as a consolidated Group total position.
The required to be able to absorb an extreme claim, often with the advice of lawyers.
Claims output from the model includes a distribution loss at the 1 in 200 year level i. e. at the arising from events such as the 11 September of financial outcomes for all material risks.
This probability is the 2001 terrorist attacks in the US are examples The main output of the model gives a full calculation benchmark required under of cases where there continues to be some distribution of potential profit or loss scenarios Solvency II.
However, it does not represent uncertainty over the eventual value of claims.
allowing the future profitability of the business the level of capital required for the to be managed on a risk adjusted basis.
Group to support current and expected Property catastrophe claims, such as business levels.
earthquake or hurricane losses, can take The model requires the input of a large several months, or years, to develop as number of explicit parameters.
Those inputs Furthermore, the Group is required to carry adjusters visit damaged property and agree are based on many different sources of higher levels of capital which are considered claim valuations.
Until all the claims are information including detailed historical data sufficient by the rating agencies and clients.
settled it requires an analysis of the area on premium and claims, forecast income and 2014 forecast unaudited m damaged, contracts exposed and the use exposures, estimated rating levels and Underwriting risk 408 of models to simulate the loss against the catastrophe loss data from proprietary models Reserving risk 250 portfolio of exposure in order to arrive at an applied to the Groups portfolio.
It enables Credit reinsurance counterparty risk 27 estimate of ultimate loss to the Group.
There projection of an estimated mean ultimate loss Investment market risk 28 is uncertainty over the adequacy of ratio and the distribution of results around it.
Liquidity risk 4 information and modelling of major losses for The model explicitly recognises diversification a period of several months after a catastrophe credit, since class results are not all strongly Operational risk 52 loss.
Account should also be taken of factors correlated and thus individual classes are Currency risk 46 which may influence the size of claims such unlikely to all produce losses or profits in the Diversified result 815 as increased inflation or a change in law.
Due to the inherent uncertainty of Note: predicting the key drivers of business 1.
All figures are based on business plan forecasts which The long tail liability classes, for which a large performance, including in particular claims are subject to regular review to take account of IBNR has to be established, represent the changes in the trading environment, interest rate levels, any individual simulation of the model most difficult classes to reserve because outlook and movements in rates of exchange.
viewed in isolation cannot be relied upon as 2.
These figures are derived from the Group Internal claims are notified and settled several years Model and based on data as at 31 December 2013. an accurate forecast.
However, the output after the expiry of the policy concerned.
Capital has been allocated to risk categories using the from many thousands of simulated results can Percentile Layer Capital Allocation approach.
It should is particularly the case for liability business provide a picture of the possible distribution be recognised that allocating capital has a number of written on a losses occurring basis.
limitations and different allocations can be obtained of business results.
This output is useful in by using alternative allocation approaches.
The use of historical development data is developing an understanding of the losses 4.
fundamental to reserving these classes.
It is which may be borne by the business at 5.
Investment market risk includes explicit modelling of currency risk.
used in conjunction with the advice of lawyers varying levels of probability.
Non-sterling amounts have been converted at market and third party claims adjusters on material rates of exchange as at 31 December 2013 US$1.66: There are a large number of uncertainties CAN$1.76: 1.20. single claims.
Known changes to wordings or and difficulties in achieving accurate results 7.
Figures include an allowance for investment returns the claims environment are also considered.
generated on assets backing the insurance liabilities from the model.
Some of the key issues are: i. e. discounting.
The allocation of IBNR to the reinsurance 8.
Investment income includes Group corporate  The model is based on a best estimate view programme is an uncertain exercise as there surplus assets.
of business volumes and rate expectations, 9.
No credit has been taken for carried reserve margins.
is limited knowledge of the size or number which may not be borne out in practice: of future claims advices.
The assumption  A significant change in the portfolio of over future reinsurance recoveries may be business could result in the past not being incorrect and unforeseen disputes could a reliable guide to the future: arise which would reduce recoveries made.
 Changing external environmental factors The estimated premium income in respect may not be assessed accurately: of facility contracts, for example, binding  Model risk may be significant in such a authorities and lineslips, is deemed to be complex and developing discipline: written in full at the inception of the contract but actual premium may exceed or fail to  Key assumptions over levels of correlation meet initial estimates.
The magnitude of between classes may over time prove to claims arising from such facilities may differ be incorrect: and from estimates as a result of differences  Catastrophe model inputs, which estimate between estimated and actual premium.
the severity and frequency of large catastrophes on the portfolio, may be Internal capital modelling of risk incorrect.
To improve the Groups risk management capability, and assessment of capital requirements, the Group has developed 138 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 138 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Claims development The tables below illustrate the development of the estimates of ultimate cumulative claims for the consolidated Group excluding Amlin Europe, Amlin London, Amlin UK, Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe after the end of the underwriting year, illustrating how amounts estimated have changed from the first estimates made.
Tables for Amlin Europe have been constructed on an accident year basis.
All tables are prepared on an undiscounted basis and exclude the effect of intra Group reinsurance arrangements.
Non-sterling balances have been converted using 2013 exchange rates to aid comparability.
In part, this arises from the Groups reserving philosophy which aims to make the most recent years, with the greatest uncertainty of result, prudently reserved leaving a potential for subsequent release.
This differs from the 198.3 million release in reserves stated in the claims development table above as the table is on an underwriting year basis and the surpluses in this narrative are on an annually accounted basis.
The table above excludes any net aggregate reserve releases from 2003 and prior years.
Also the table above excludes Amlin Europe, which is disclosed on an accident year basis and for which net reserve releases are 53.3 million.
The Amlin Europe table also excludes any net aggregate reserve releases from 2003 and prior years.
Further details on these reserve releases and other aspects of the underwriting performance are included in the Performance section on page 50.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 135 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 139 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued 3.2 Financial risk Risk management The following section describes the Groups investment risk management from a quantitative and qualitative perspective.
The Group has two main categories of assets:  Underwriting assets premium received and held to meet future insurance claims.
 Capital assets capital required by the regulators to support the underwriting business plus working capital and surplus funds.
Apart from the outstanding borrowings, these assets do not have specific current liabilities attached to them.
Investment governance The Group manages its investments in accordance with investment frameworks that are set by the Boards of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries the Boards.
These frameworks determine investment governance and the investment risk tolerance.
They are reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the Boards fiduciary and regulatory responsibilities are being met.
Day-to-day management of the investments is delegated to the Investment Management Executive or members of the relevant subsidiarys executive, who are advised by the Chief Investment Officer.
The Investment Management Executive comprises the Chief Executive, Group Finance & Operations Director and Chief Investment Officer, and meets quarterly to consider whether the strategic asset allocation and tactical asset allocation ranges are appropriate to optimise investment returns within the risk tolerances set by the Boards.
Group Investments, led by the Chief Investment Officer, is responsible for tactical asset allocation and the appointment of external investment managers and custodians.
Risk tolerance Investment risk tolerances are set by the Board of Amlin plc and its subsidiaries.
The investment process is driven from the risk tolerance which is determined by reference to factors such as the underwriting cycle and the requirements of the capital providers.
In a hard underwriting market capital preservation is paramount in order to support the insurance business and, therefore, the risk tolerance for the capital assets will be low.
Conversely, the risk tolerance for the underwriting assets under these circumstances will be relatively high due to the strong cash flow.
In a soft underwriting market the opposite applies.
Investment risk is monitored by Group Investments using a market-recognised third-party risk model.
Risk reporting is generated by Group Investments and an independent review conducted by the Corporate Centre Risk department.
These reports are then circulated to the Investment Management Executive and to the Group Risk Committee.
Strategic asset allocation Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has its own strategic asset allocation which is set according to its risk tolerance and liabilities.
1 The strategic asset allocations for capital assets are set by using a Value at Risk VaR model to determine the optimum asset allocation for the current risk tolerance, which ensures that appropriate solvency levels are maintained.
The expected timescale for future cash flows in each currency is calculated by the Group Actuarial team: the average of these form the basis of our asset liability duration management.
Tactical ranges around these strategic asset allocations provide flexibility to ensure that an appropriate risk reward balance is maintained in changing investment markets.
Investment management Investments are run on a multi-asset, multi-manager basis.
Exposure to the asset classes is achieved using physical holdings of the asset class or derivative instruments and may be managed by Group Investments or by outsourced managers, on a segregated, pooled or 2 commingled basis.
Manager selection is based on a range of criteria that leads to the expectation that they will add value to the funds over the medium to long-term.
The managers have discretion to manage the funds on a day-to-day basis within investment guidelines or prospectuses applicable to their funds that ensure that they comply with the investment frameworks.
The managers performance, compliance and risk are monitored on an ongoing basis.
VaR is a statistical measure which calculates the possible loss over a year in normal market conditions.
As VaR estimates are based on historical market data this should not be viewed as an absolute gauge of the level of risk to the investments.
Segregated funds are managed separately for the Group.
Pooled funds are collective investment vehicles in which the Group and other investors purchase units.
Commingled funds combine the assets of several clients.
140 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 144 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The managers as at 31 December 2013 were as follows: Manager Asset class Segregated funds Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited US dollar bonds Artemis Investment Management LLP Global equities Barclays Bank plc New Zealand dollar and US dollar money market deposits Bank of Butterfield US dollar money market deposits CBRE Global Collective Investors UK Limited Global property Insight Investment Management Global Limited Sterling and euro bonds Lloyds Bank plc New Zealand dollar money market deposits Townsend Group Europe Limited Global property Veritas Asset Management LLP Active global equity Wellington Management International Limited US dollar and Canadian dollar bonds Pooled vehicles liquidity funds BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Sterling, euro and US dollar liquidity funds Citibank New Zealand dollar and Australian dollar cash management Goldman Sachs Asset Management International Sterling, euro and US dollar liquidity funds HSBC Global Asset Management France Euro liquidity funds Insight Investment Management Global Limited Sterling liquidity funds JP Morgan Asset Management Euro, Japanese yen and US dollar liquidity funds Royal Bank of Scotland Sterling liquidity funds Western Asset Management Company US dollar liquidity funds Pooled vehicles bonds and LIBOR plus funds Bluebay Asset Management LLP Euro bonds Goldman Sachs Asset Management International LIBOR plus funds H2O AM LLP LIBOR plus funds Insight Investment Management Global Limited LIBOR plus funds PIMCO Global Advisers Ireland Limited Sterling and US dollar bonds Wellington Management International Limited LIBOR plus funds Pooled vehicles insurance linked securities Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP Insurance linked securities Commingled funds Corporation of Lloyds Treasury Services US dollar, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, South African rand and Japanese yen bonds Fiera Capital Corporation formerly Union Bank of Switzerland Canadian dollar and US dollar liquidity funds Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 141 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 145 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued The funds under management with each manager are shown below: 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Total Total assets Total assets Total Manager m % m % Segregated funds Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 257.6 5.8 248.4 5.9 Artemis Investment Management LLP 327.3 7.4 111.6 2.6 Barclays Bank plc 22.6 0.5 46.2 1.1 Bank of Butterfield 12.0 0.3 CBRE Global Collective Investors UK Limited 85.0 1.9 73.3 1.7 Insight Investment Management Global Limited 228.8 5.2 571.9 13.5 Lloyds Bank plc 14.3 0.3 15.2 0.4 Townsend Group Europe Limited 109.7 2.5 86.6 2.0 Veritas Asset Management LLP 227.3 5.1 181.1 4.3 Wellington Management International Limited 407.4 9.2 372.5 8.8 Pooled vehicles liquidity funds BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited 102.8 2.3 217.4 5.1 Citibank 0.4 3.4 0.1 Goldman Sachs Asset Management International 2.9 0.1 41.2 1.0 HSBC Global Asset Management France 23.9 0.5 184.7 4.4 Insight Investment Management Global Limited 69.2 1.6 JP Morgan Asset Management 120.0 2.7 146.7 3.5 Royal Bank of Scotland 33.5 0.8 Western Asset Management Company 0.1 70.2 1.6 Pooled vehicles bonds and LIBOR plus funds Bluebay Asset Management LLP 330.9 7.6 379.2 8.9 Goldman Sachs Asset Management International 547.0 12.4 488.8 11.5 H20 AM LLP 455.4 10.3 192.0 4.5 Insight Investment Management Global Limited 71.6 1.6 PIMCO Global Advisers Ireland Limited 439.3 9.9 379.5 9.0 Wellington Management International Limited 369.8 8.4 33.4 0.8 Pooled vehicles insurance linked securities Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP 62.2 1.4 59.4 1.4 Commingled funds Corporation of Lloyds Treasury Services 140.6 3.2 171.9 4.1 Fiera Capital Corporation formerly Union Bank of Switzerland 60.8 1.4 60.5 1.4 4,419.7 100.0 4,237.8 100.0 Note: The table above excludes the Groups directly held securities of 29.4 million 2012: 9.4 million comprising insurance linked securities 5.0 million 2012: 4.6 million, unlisted equities 6.0 million 2012: 4.0 million and other liquid investments 18.4 million 2012: 0.8 million.
The table also excludes 10.6 million 2012: 2.4 million unrealised gains accruing to a series of foreign exchange contracts placed on behalf of the Group to hedge portfolio currency exposures.
142 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 146 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Asset allocation The total value of investments in the following tables is reconciled to note 18, financial assets and financial liabilities, as follows: 2013 2012 m m Net financial investments per note 18 4,364.1 4,199.3 Assets liabilities shown separately in the notes to the accounts: Accrued income 5.9 7.6 Net unsettled receivables payables for investments sold purchased 32.0 15.9 Cash funds held by financial institutions 59.1 59.7 Assets not analysed in the investment asset allocation tables: Liquid investments 3.2 0.8 Unlisted equities 0.7 0.7 Margin and collateral relating to derivative instruments 2.5 0.4 Total investments in asset allocation tables below 4,459.7 4,249.6 The asset allocation of the Groups investments is set out below.
Pooled vehicles held are represented by 23.4% government agency bonds 2012: 16.3%, 26.0% corporate bonds 2012: 28.4%, 19.9% mortgage backed and asset backed securities 2012: 31.7%, 3.5% insurance linked securities 2012: 4.3% and 27.2% other liquid investments 2012: 19.3%.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 143 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 147 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued The industry and geographical splits were as follows: 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Corporate Global Corporate Global bonds equities Total bonds equities Total Industry % % % % % % Oil & gas 7.6 7.8 7.7 8.1 12.7 10.4 Basic materials 1.0 2.7 2.2 0.2 2.5 1.4 Industrials 8.6 13.4 12.0 6.4 9.7 8.1 Consumer goods & services 10.4 22.0 18.4 10.9 19.6 15.4 Healthcare 6.9 18.7 15.1 4.0 16.1 10.2 Government guaranteed 0.2 0.1 4.2 2.0 Telecommunications 5.2 9.2 8.0 4.6 13.0 9.0 Utilities 5.4 1.1 2.4 2.0 0.6 1.3 Financials 50.5 12.3 23.9 54.8 14.5 34.0 Technology 4.2 12.8 10.2 3.0 10.1 6.7 Other industries 1.8 1.2 1.5 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Note: The table above excludes government bonds but includes 1.2 million 2012: 11.2 million of corporate bonds with government guarantees and pooled vehicles of 1,820.8 million 2012: 1,364.8 million.
Market risk Valuation risk Where possible, Group assets are marked to market at bid price.
Prices are supplied by the Groups custodians whose pricing processes are covered by their published annual controls reports.
In accordance with their pricing policies, prices are sourced from market recognised pricing vendor sources.
These pricing sources use closing trades or, where more appropriate in illiquid markets, pricing models.
These models typically use broker quotes or other independent valuation techniques such as discounted cash flow models using observable or unobservable market inputs.
The Group has an established control framework with respect to fair value measurement which ensures the valuation of financial assets and financial liabilities meets the requirements of IFRS.
As part of this process, the Group reviews the valuation policies of its custodians along with the evidence provided by the custodians to support fair value measurement.
The prices are also reconciled to the fund managers records to check for reasonableness.
As an additional level of governance over pricing, the Group validates the prices provided by pricing vendor sources against information obtained from Bloomberg where available.
A review of stale prices was also conducted at 31 December 2013, though the impact of stale prices on the Groups investment valuation is considered immaterial.
Further details of the fair value measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities are included in note 3.3.
The valuation of investments is sensitive to equity risk.
The impact on profit before tax of a 1% improvement deterioration in the total market value of shares and other variable yield securities would be a 5.2 million gain loss 2012: 2.8 million.
Sensitivities in relation to other risks are considered in the remainder of note 3.2.
144 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 148 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Interest rate risk 3 Investors expectations for interest rates will impact bond yields.
Therefore, the value of the Groups bond holdings is subject to fluctuation as 4 bond yields rise and fall.
If yields fall the capital value will rise, and vice versa.
The sensitivity of the price of a bond is indicated by its duration.
The greater the durationof a security, the greater its possible price volatility.
Typically, the longer the maturity of a bond the greater its duration.
The maturity bands of the Groups bond holdings as at 31 December 2013 are shown below.
The duration of underwriting assets is set with reference to the duration of the underlying liabilities.
It should be noted that the liabilities are not currently discounted and therefore their value is not impacted by interest rate movements.
Cash is raised, or the duration of the portfolio reduced, if it is believed that yields may rise and therefore capital values will fall.
The average durations of the bond and cash portfolios for the underwriting assets and associated insurance liabilities as at 31 December 2013 were as follows: 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Underwriting assets liabilities Years Years Years Years Sterling 0.3 4.1 0.1 2.2 US dollars 0.7 2.5 0.7 2.2 Euro 0.2 3.4 1.5 3.4 Canadian dollars 1.0 4.0 1.5 3.7 Note: The table above includes pooled vehicles.
The asset durations above are calculated by the custodian and are checked against those reported by the fund managers.
Liabilities durations are calculated by the Group Actuarial team.
An indication of the potential sensitivity of the value of the bond and cash funds to changes in yield is shown below.
The yield is the rate of return paid if a security is held to maturity.
The calculation is based on the coupon rate, length of time to maturity and the market price.
It assumes coupon interest paid over the life of the security is reinvested at the same rate.
The duration is the weighted average maturity of the securitys expected cash flows, where the present values of the cash flows serve as the weights.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 145 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 149 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued Foreign exchange risk The exposures to translation, revaluation and asset liability currency matching risk combine to form the Groups overall exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Groups reporting currency is sterling and significant subsidiary functional currencies are sterling, euro and US dollar.
The Group holds asset and liability balances in base currencies of sterling, euro, US dollars, Canadian dollars, New Zealand dollars and Japanese yen.
Translation risk Foreign exchange translation risk arises when business is written in non-functional currencies.
These transactions are translated into the functional currency of the relevant Group entity at the prevailing spot rate at the inception date of the premium.
Consequently, there is exposure to currency movements between the inception date and the date premium is received.
Claims incurred in non-functional currencies are recorded at the prevailing spot rate on the date of the loss event and then translated back from the functional currency at the time a claim is to be settled: therefore the Group is exposed to exchange rate risk between the date the claim is made and the date of settlement.
Revaluation risk The Group is subject to revaluation risk as a result of the translation into the Groups sterling reporting currency of the Group entities that have a non-sterling functional currency.
At 31 December 2013, the Group was exposed to net investments in foreign operations balances totalling US$1,343.8 million 2012: US$1,330.8 million and 873.4 million 2012: 499.0 million.
Foreign exchange gains and losses on investments in foreign subsidiaries are recognised in other comprehensive income in accordance with IAS 21, The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The loss recognised in other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December 2013 was 16.5 million 2012: 57.1 million.
This reflects the movement in the US dollar rate from 1.62 at the start of the year to 1.66 at the balance sheet date and the movement in the euro rate from 1.23 at the start of the year to 1.20 at the balance sheet date.
In order to mitigate the impact of these currency fluctuations, the Group adopts a policy of hedging approximately 50% of the net currency exposure resulting from the net investments in foreign operations.
For this purpose, the Group uses a combination of subordinated debt, drawdowns on the revolving credit facility and options that are accounted for as hedges of net investments in foreign operations, in accordance with the hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39.
The effective portion of all unrealised and realised gains and losses on the designated portion of the hedging instruments is taken to the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income to match the underlying movement in the valuation of the net investment in foreign operations, with the ineffective portion recognised in consolidated statement of profit or loss.
At the year end, hedges were in place for US$702.0 million 2012: US$628.0 million and 397.0 million 2012: 257.0 million.
The net realised and unrealised gain from hedging recognised in consolidated statement of other comprehensive income during the year was 0.5 million 2012: 3.7 million gain.
In relation to revaluation of the net investment in foreign operations, if the US$ GBP exchange rates were to improve by 10%, this would result in an additional exchange gain of 98.4 million recognised in other comprehensive income.
This gain would be offset by a valuation loss of 23.3 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
The same exchange rate deterioration would result in an additional 63.9 million exchange loss through other comprehensive income.
This loss would be offset by a valuation gain of 39.1 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
If the EUR GBP exchange rate were to improve by 10%, this would result in an additional exchange gain of 72.1 million recognised in other comprehensive income.
This gain would be offset by a valuation loss of 10.3 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
The same exchange rate deterioration would result in an additional 73.1 million exchange loss through other comprehensive income.
This loss would be offset by a valuation gain of 20.4 million on the designated portion of the hedging instruments.
Asset liability matching by currency risk If a liability in a currency other than the functional currencies of sterling, euro and US dollars is considered to be sufficiently large following a major event, for example such as the 2010 and 2011 New Zealand earthquakes, that currency will be bought and held as a base currency to cover the potential liability.
Underwriting assets are held in the base currencies of sterling, euros, US dollars, Canadian dollars, New Zealand dollars and Japanese yen, which represent the majority of the Groups liabilities by currency, thus limiting the underwriting asset liability matching currency risk.
146 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 150 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below presents the Groups assets and liabilities by currency.
The amounts are stated in the sterling equivalent of the local currency, in order that the amounts can be reconciled to the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
The local currency amounts have been converted into sterling using the exchange rates as disclosed in note 33.
Risk disclosures continued If the base currencies were to improve deteriorate by 10%, the movement in the monetary net underwriting assets and liabilities and borrowings of the Group, excluding foreign operations, would result in the following gains losses in the consolidated statement of profit or loss at 31 December 2013: 31 December 2013 10% improvement 10% deterioration Currency m m US dollars 11.1 9.1 Canadian dollars 6.5 5.3 Euro 3.5 2.9 New Zealand dollars 9.3 7.6 Japanese yen 1.4 1.1 31.8 26.0 Further foreign exchange risk arises until non-sterling profits or losses are converted into sterling.
Foreign exchange risk is mitigated by converting the subsidiaries functional currency profits into the Groups reporting currency.
Given the inherent volatility in some business classes, a cautious approach is adopted on the speed and level of sales, but the Group seeks to extinguish all currency risk on earned profit during the second year after the commencement of each underwriting year.
It is not the intention to take speculative currency positions in order to make currency gains.
At 31 December 2013, the investment managers held some forward foreign exchange contracts in their portfolios to hedge non-base currency investments.
These were transacted with banks with a short-term rating of at least A and are marked to market in investment valuations.
Liquidity risk It is important that the Groups entities can pay their obligations as they fall due.
Levels of cash are therefore managed on a daily basis and buffers of liquid assets are held in excess of the immediate requirements.
This is to reduce the risk of being forced sellers of any of the Groups assets, which may result in realising prices below fair value, especially in periods of below normal investment market liquidity.
The Group funds its insurance liabilities with a portfolio of cash and debt securities exposed to market risk.
The following table indicates the contractual timing of cash flows arising from assets and liabilities for management of insurance contracts at 31 December 2013: Contractual cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying 31 December 2013 maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Financial assets m m m m m m Shares and other variable yield securities 521.9 0.5 522.4 5 Debt and other fixed income securities 1,820.8 218.2 563.0 255.1 193.9 2,953.8 Property funds 181.0 181.0 Liquidity funds and other liquid investments 769.1 769.1 Derivative financial instruments, net 12.8 20.6 33.4 Total 3,305.6 239.3 563.0 255.1 193.9 4,459.7 Expected cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Insurance liabilities m m m m m m Outstanding claims 1,083.8 980.4 381.3 463.9 2,897.1 Less reinsurers share of outstanding claims 141.8 100.3 45.7 57.4 343.1 Total 942.0 880.1 335.6 406.5 2,554.0 Difference in contractual cash flows 3,305.6 702.7 317.1 80.5 212.6 1,905.7 Note: 5.
Debt and other fixed income securities include pooled vehicles of 1,820.8 million 2012: 1,364.8 million which have no stated maturity.
148 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 152 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Contractual cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying 31 December 2012 maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Financial assets m m m m m m Shares and other variable yield securities 283.3 0.3 283.6 Debt and other fixed income securities 1,364.8 285.5 523.3 373.9 125.0 2,663.6 Property funds 153.6 153.6 Liquidity funds and other liquid investments 1,145.5 1.9 1,147.4 Derivative financial instruments, net 1.4 1.4 Total 2,948.6 287.7 523.3 373.9 125.0 4,249.6 Expected cash flows undiscounted No stated Carrying maturity 0-1 yr 1-3 yrs 3-5 yrs 5 yrs amount Insurance liabilities m m m m m m Outstanding claims 1,126.4 1,103.9 427.2 472.5 3,083.5 Less reinsurers share of outstanding claims 190.3 172.5 59.4 64.0 478.6 Total 936.1 931.4 367.8 408.5 2,604.9 Difference in contractual cash flows 2,948.6 648.4 408.1 6.1 283.5 1,644.7 Liquidity, in the event of a major disaster, is tested regularly using internal cash flow forecasts and realistic disaster scenarios.
Liquidity is supported by pre-arranged revolving credit facilities as detailed in note 31.
If a major insurance event occurs the investment strategy is reviewed to ensure that sufficient liquidity is also available in the assets.
A breakdown of the current and non-current portions of the other non-derivative financial liabilities is available in notes 30 and 31. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that the Group becomes exposed to losses if a specific counterparty fails to perform its contractual obligations in a timely manner, impacting the Groups ability to meet its claims as they fall due.
Credit risk can also arise from underlying causes that have an impact upon the creditworthiness of all counterparties of a particular description or geographical location.
The Groups credit risk is mitigated by the collateral received from counterparties, details of which are given in note 29.
The Group is exposed to credit risk in its investment portfolio and with its premium and reinsurance receivables.
The table below shows the breakdown at 31 December 2013 of the exposure of the bond 6 portfolio, liquidity funds and insurance and reinsurance receivables by credit quality.
Other insurance and reinsurance receivables includes 580.7 million 2012: 577.6 million of premium receivable from policyholders and 314.9 million 2012: 295.5 million of premium receivable from intermediaries that are not rated.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 149 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 153 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued Insurance and reinsurance The table includes premium receivables, representing amounts due from policyholders.
The quality of these receivables is not graded, but based on historical experience there is limited default risk relating to these amounts.
Premium credit risk is managed through a number of controls that include broker approval, annual financial review and internal rating of brokers and regular monitoring of premium settlement performance.
Also included are reinsurance receivables, which represent the amounts due at 31 December 2013, as well as amounts expected to be recovered on unpaid outstanding claims including IBNR in respect of earned risks.
These are stated net of provisions for impairment.
The credit risk in respect of reinsurance receivables, including reinsurers share of outstanding claims, is primarily managed by review and approval of reinsurance security by the Groups Reinsurance Security Committee prior to the purchase of the reinsurance contract.
Guidelines are set, and monitored, that restrict the purchase of reinsurance security based on the Groups own ratings for each reinsurer and Standard & Poors ratings.
The Group holds collateral from certain reinsurers including those that are non-rated as security against potential default.
The details of reinsurance collaterals held and placed with third party trust funds are provided in note 29.
At 31 December 2013, the Group held collateral of 436.0 million 2012 restated: 459.1 million.
Provisions are made against the amounts due from certain reinsurers, depending on the age of the debt and the current rating assigned to the reinsurer.
The impact on profit before tax of a 1% variation in the reinsurance assets would be 3.9 million 2012: 5.3 million.
The details of overdue reinsurance assets and insurance receivables are provided in notes 19 and 20.
Investments As well as failure of a counterparty to perform its contractual obligations, the price of government and corporate bond holdings will be affected by investors perception of a borrowers creditworthiness.
Credit risk within the investment funds is managed through restrictions on the exposures by credit rating, as determined by the rating agencies, and by holding diversified portfolios.
0.6 million of bonds held at 31 December 2013 were subject to downgrades during the year 2012: 30.3 million.
The Groups largest non-government counterparty as at 31 December 2013, excluding liquidity funds, has an A rating and is valued at 72.3 million 2012: 56.5 million.
The investment comprises cash of 57.8 million 2012: 53.4 million, corporate bonds of 8.7 million 2012: 2.3 million, asset backed securities of 0.1 million 2012: nil, equities of 5.7 million 2012: nil and mortgage backed securities of nil 2012: 0.8 million.
The largest counterparty is not necessarily the same year on year.
The table below shows the credit rating of the Groups non-government bonds.
Non-government bonds Total 31 December 2013 m AAA AA A BBB Other Corporate Financials 108.7 5.5% 28.0% 63.2% 3.3% Corporate Other 116.4 1.6% 10.5% 57.6% 28.2% 2.1% Mortgage backed securities 103.0 84.7% 7.2% 2.9% 0.5% 4.7% Asset backed securities 90.2 90.7% 4.4% 4.7% 0.2% Insurance linked securities 5.0 100% Non-government bonds Total 31 December 2012 m AAA AA A BBB Other Corporate Financials 141.4 14.5% 30.2% 54.1% 1.2% Corporate Other 109.4 11.5% 57.8% 30.7% Mortgage backed securities 179.9 91.3% 4.7% 0.4% 0.2% 3.4% Asset backed securities 55.1 95.8% 1.7% 2.1% 0.4% Insurance linked securities 4.6 100% The table excludes pooled investments and 1.2 million 2012: 11.2 million of corporate bonds with explicit government guarantees but includes 1.9 million 2012: 1.6 million of government agency mortgage backed securities.
150 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 154 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.3 Fair value methodology For financial instruments carried at fair value the Group has categorised the measurement basis into a fair value hierarchy as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
An active market is one in which transactions for the asset occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide readily and regularly available quoted prices.
Level 2 Inputs to a valuation model other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 Inputs to a valuation model for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs and are significant to the overall fair value measurement.
Unobservable inputs may have been used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date or market information for the inputs to any valuation models.
As such, unobservable inputs reflect the assumptions it is considered that market participants would use in pricing the asset.
Shares and other variable yield securities Listed equities traded on a primary exchange in an active market are classified as Level 1.
Unlisted equities included in Level 3 are valued using adjusted net asset valuation techniques where adjustments are made to the net asset position based on managements assessment of future profitability.
Debt and other fixed income securities The fair value is based upon quotes from pricing services where available.
These pricing services derive prices based on an average of quotes provided by brokers.
Where multiple quotes are not available, the fair value is based upon evaluated pricing services, which typically use proprietary cash flow models and incorporate observable market inputs, such as credit spreads, benchmark quotes and other trade data.
If such services do not provide coverage of the asset, then fair value is determined manually using indicative broker quotes, which are corroborated by recent market transactions in similar or identical assets.
Where there is an active market for these assets and their fair value is the unadjusted quoted market price, these are classified as Level 1.
This is typically the case for government bonds.
Level 1 also includes bond funds, where fair value is based upon quoted prices.
Where the market is inactive or the price is adjusted, but significant market observable inputs have been used by the pricing sources, then these are considered to be Level 2.
This is typically the case for government agency debt, corporate debt, mortgage and asset backed securities and catastrophe bonds.
Certain assets, for which prices or other market inputs are unobservable, are classified as Level 3.
Property funds The Groups property fund portfolios are valued using the most recent net asset value provided by the fund managers.
The net asset values, which may be a quarter in arrears, are determined by the fund managers using proprietary cash flow models.
In such cases, adjustments may be made to bring the net asset value to a more current valuation.
The inputs into that valuation, such as discount rates, are primarily unobservable and, as such, these assets are classified as Level 3.
Where an investment is made into a new property fund the transaction price is considered to be the fair value if it is the most recent price available.
Participation in investment pools These are units held in money market funds and the value is based upon unadjusted, quoted and executable prices provided by the fund manager and these are classified as Level 1.
Derivatives Listed derivative contracts, such as futures, that are actively traded are valued using quoted prices from the relevant exchange and are classified as Level 1.
Over the counter currency options are valued by the counterparty using quantitative models with multiple market inputs such as foreign exchange rate volatility.
The market inputs are observable and the valuation can be validated through external sources.
These are classified as Level 2.
The Groups contracts with Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd have been classified as derivative instruments.
The valuation of these instruments is based on forecast cash flow models which contain principally unobservable market inputs, and as such are classified as Level 3.
The options relating to Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP, which allow either the Group or partnership management to purchase the remaining shares and voting rights, are also classified as Level 3.
The valuation of these options is judgemental as no liquid market exists and estimation of future cash flows is highly subjective.
Therefore both a forecast cash flow model and limited observable market data have been used.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 151 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 155 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued Fair value hierarchy Fair value hierarchy Total Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 2012 m m m m m m m m Assets Financial assets held for trading at fair value through profit or loss Shares and other variable yield securities 516.5 516.5 279.6 279.6 Debt and other fixed income securities 2,606.9 526.6 3,133.5 2,089.7 622.8 12.2 2,724.7 Property funds 181.0 181.0 153.6 153.6 Derivative instruments 18.9 18.9 6.8 6.8 Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Participation in investment pools 379.2 379.2 997.1 997.1 Deposits with credit institutions 119.4 119.4 42.9 42.9 Other 0.6 2.0 2.6 0.6 0.6 1.2 Available-for-sale financial assets Unlisted equities 6.7 6.7 4.7 4.7 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 16.9 16.9 2.0 2.0 Total assets 3,622.6 562.4 189.7 4,374.7 3,409.9 631.6 171.1 4,212.6 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading at fair value through profit or loss Derivative instruments 4.6 0.1 4.7 5.0 5.0 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.7 0.7 Total liabilities 4.6 0.1 4.7 5.7 5.7 Net financial assets 3,622.6 557.8 189.6 4,370.0 3,409.9 625.9 171.1 4,206.9 Assets shown separately in the notes to the accounts Accrued income 5.9 7.6 Net financial investments note 18 4,364.1 4,199.3 The table above excludes the Groups holdings of cash and cash equivalents of 164.5 million 2012: 190.6 million.
These are measured at fair value and are categorised as Level 1.
The table also excludes the Groups borrowings which are not measured at fair value but for which fair value information is provided in note 31.
These are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
The Groups policy is to recognise transfers into and transfers out of fair value hierarchy levels at the end of the relevant reporting period during which the transfers are deemed to have occurred.
There has been no transfer between the different levels during the year.
152 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 156 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The table below analyses the movements in assets and liabilities classified as Level 3 investments during 2013: Debt and other fixed income Property Derivative Unlisted securities funds instruments Other equities Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2013 12.2 153.6 0.6 4.7 171.1 Total net gains losses recognised in investment return in profit or loss 0.2 4.1 17.2 1.7 11.2 Sales 10.7 27.2 37.9 Purchases 54.4 2.0 56.4 Settlements 1.5 2.6 17.1 0.2 12.8 Foreign exchange losses 0.2 1.3 0.1 1.6 At 31 December 2013 181.0 0.1 2.0 6.7 189.6 Total unrealised gains for the period recognised in investment return in profit or loss for assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period 1.1 Debt and other fixed income Property Derivative Unlisted securities funds instruments Other equities Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 0.6 117.3 1.6 4.2 123.7 Total net gains losses recognised in investment return in profit or loss 0.1 2.0 1.9 Sales 0.5 4.5 1.0 6.0 Purchases 12.6 47.1 59.7 Unrealised gains on investments designated as available-for-sale 0.5 0.5 Transfer out of Level 3 0.6 0.6 Foreign exchange losses 4.3 4.3 At 31 December 2012 12.2 153.6 0.6 4.7 171.1 Total unrealised losses for the period recognised in investment return in profit or loss for assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period 1.4 The majority of the Groups investments are valued based on quoted market information or other observable market data.
The Group holds 4.3% 2012: 4.1% of its net financial investments at a fair value based on estimates and recorded as Level 3 investments.
Where estimates are used, these are based on a combination of independent third party evidence and internally developed models, calibrated to market observable data where possible.
While such valuations are sensitive to estimates, it is believed that changing one or more of the assumptions to reasonably possible alternative assumptions would not change the fair value significantly.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 153 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 157 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued 3.4 Retirement benefit obligations The Group participates in a number of pension arrangements, including defined contribution schemes, defined benefit schemes and personal pension schemes.
Defined benefit schemes The Group participates in four funded defined benefit schemes, being: the Lloyds Superannuation Fund located in the United Kingdom, Amlin Europe schemes located in The Netherlands and Belgium and the Amlin Re Europe scheme in Switzerland.
Scheme descriptions Lloyds Superannuation Fund United Kingdom The scheme is operated as part of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund the Fund.
The Fund is administered by an entity which is legally separate from the Group.
The Board of the pension fund, the Board of Trustees, is made up by a majority of Independent Directors, an Amlin Employers Director and an Amlin Members Director.
The Trustees are required by legislation and by its articles of association to act in the interests of the pension scheme and the plan participants.
The Trustees are responsible for the investment strategy of the Fund, in accordance with the Statement of Investment Principles.
The Trustees are also responsible for the appointment of custodians and actuaries for the Fund, in addition to consulting with the employers of the Fund.
Historically the Fund has catered for a number of employers in the Lloyds market.
As a consequence of market consolidation, employers closing final salary schemes and some companies failing, during 2013 Amlin became the only active employer 2012: two in the Fund.
Previously, the Trustee operated separate notional accounts for the scheme of each contributing employer and also a section relating to former employees of employers no longer contributing to the fund known as the Orphans section.
Following the exit of the other employer from the Fund during the year, making Amlin the sole participating employer, the Trustee has stopped notionally segregating the assets.
The Company is now ultimately responsible for the assets and liabilities of the Fund, including 100% of the Orphan liabilities 2012: 93.5%.
This has resulted in an increase in the defined benefit obligation by 2.9 million and an increase in the assets of the Fund by 19.0 million net of the insurance contract noted below, which are included in the actuarial gains and losses in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income as per note 32.
Further to the exit of the remaining other employer, the Trustee has entered into a contract with an insurance company to secure the liabilities relating to the employer exiting the Fund and to some of the liabilities of the Orphans section.
The Fund has paid 40.6 million to the insurance company in respect of this transaction.
No liability in respect of scheme members included in this insurance contract has been included in the Companys defined benefit obligation.
Amlin Europe schemes Netherlands and Belgium Amlin Europe N. V. operates two defined benefit pension schemes covering the majority of its employees.
These plans are governed by the Amlin Europe Board in accordance with Dutch and Belgian legislation.
Under these schemes, benefits are based on years of service and level of salary.
Benefits also include other post-employment benefits which continue to be granted to employees after retirement.
These plans are insured and are funded partly by means of employee contributions.
Amlin Re Europe scheme Switzerland Amlin Re Europe operates a pension scheme which meets the classification of a defined benefit scheme under IAS 19.
In accordance with Swiss legislation, Amlin Re Europe provides for occupational pension insurance, the regulations of which, as may be amended from time to time, apply to both Amlin Re Europe and the employee.
The Amlin Re Europe Board retains overall responsibility for deciding on such fundamental aspects as the level and structure of plan benefits.
The insured salary is based on the agreed compensation exclusive of bonus and or other benefits granted by Amlin Re Europe.
The employees pay a portion of the premiums determined in the applicable pension fund regulations.
Risks to which the Group is exposed through its defined benefit schemes The defined benefit schemes expose the Group to the following risks:  Changes in bond yields The discount rate used in calculating the present value of the defined benefit obligation is based upon the yield of high-quality debt instruments issued by blue chip companies, with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.
A decrease in bond yields is likely to increase the defined benefit obligation.
 Asset volatility There is a risk that the return on the plan assets underperforms the yield on corporate bonds, thereby reducing the surplus or increasing the deficit.
 Inflation risk The defined benefit obligation is linked to inflation and therefore should the inflation rate increase, there will be an increase in the plan obligation.
 Life expectancy The present value of the defined benefit obligation is calculated based on certain mortality assumptions as stated below.
An increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will result in an increase in the defined benefit obligation.
 Risk of insurer default For the insured schemes, if the insurer is unable to meet its obligations, or if the contract is cancelled by either party: it will fall to the Group to provide the benefits to members in accordance with the relevant scheme assets.
154 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 158 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Significant actuarial assumptions The significant actuarial assumptions used as at 31 December 2013 were: UK The Netherlands Belgium Switzerland % pa % pa % pa % pa Discount rate for pension benefits 4.4 3.7 2.5 2.3 Price inflation CPI RPI for UK 2.5 3.0 2.0 2.0 1.5 Expected salary increases general 2.0 2.0 2.5 Expected salary increases merit 1.5 Indexation for active and formerly active employees 2.0 The significant actuarial assumptions used as at 31 December 2012 were: UK The Netherlands Belgium Switzerland % pa % pa % pa % pa Discount rate for pension benefits 4.4 3.2 2.5 1.8 Price inflation 3.0 2.0 2.0 1.5 Expected salary increases general 2.0 2.0 2.5 Expected salary increases merit 0-6.75 1.5 Indexation for active and formerly active employees 2.0 The mortality assumptions used in the 31 December 2013 valuation included the following life expectancies: UK The Netherlands Belgium Switzerland Life expectancy years at age 60 for a member currently: Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Aged 60 28.0 29.4 26.8 28.0 26.7 30.9 26.3 28.9 Aged 45 30.0 31.0 27.9 28.8 26.7 30.9 27.7 30.3 The mortality assumptions used in the 31 December 2012 valuation included the following life expectancies: UK The Netherlands Belgium Switzerland Life expectancy years at age 60 for a member currently: Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Aged 60 27.9 29.3 26.5 27.9 22.1 25.9 26.1 28.8 Aged 45 29.9 30.9 27.9 28.8 22.1 25.9 27.6 30.2 Significant actuarial assumptions sensitivities The table below shows the impact on the defined benefit obligation that a change in certain key assumptions would have: Assumption change m Increase decrease in discount rate by 0.25% 18.2 20.5 Decrease increase in inflation rate by 0.25% 10.9 11.3 Decrease increase in salary rate by 0.5% 0.5 0.6 Decrease increase in indexation rate by 0.5% 6.6 7.6 Decrease increase in life expectancy by one year 13.6 13.5 The above sensitivities of the significant actuarial assumptions have been calculated by changing each assumption in turn whilst all remaining assumptions are held constant.
The limitation of this sensitivity analysis is that in practice assumptions may be correlated and therefore are unlikely to change in isolation.
There has been a change in the method used in calculating the life expectancy sensitivity to present an increase or decrease of one year to reflect a standardised approach under IAS 19 revised.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 155 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 159 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Risk disclosures continued Analysis of scheme assets The analysis of the scheme assets at the reporting date is as follows: 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Quoted Unquoted Total Total Quoted Unquoted Total Total m m m % m m m % Cash and cash equivalents 15.8 15.8 3.4 67.0 67.0 15.3 Equity instruments United Kingdom 72.8 72.8 15.6 41.4 41.4 9.5 Europe 12.2 12.2 2.6 13.3 13.3 3.0 North America 27.0 27.0 5.8 22.2 22.2 5.1 Asia 5.5 5.5 1.2 6.1 6.1 1.4 Rest of World 8.1 8.1 1.7 7.7 7.7 1.8 Bonds Government 97.8 97.8 20.9 82.3 82.3 18.9 Corporate 136.7 136.7 29.1 115.4 115.4 26.4 Property United Kingdom 28.1 28.1 6.0 21.6 21.6 4.9 Total directly managed scheme assets United Kingdom 388.2 15.8 404.0 86.3 310.0 67.0 377.0 86.3 The Netherlands 51.7 11.1 49.1 11.3 Belgium 3.4 0.7 3.0 0.7 Switzerland 9.0 1.9 7.5 1.7 Insured scheme assets 64.1 13.7 59.6 13.7 Total scheme assets 468.1 100.0 436.6 100.0 The analysis of the scheme assets by asset class are not provided for the Amlin Re Europe and Amlin Europe defined benefit schemes as the investment decisions are at the discretion of the third parties to whom Amlin Re Europe and Amlin Europe have ceded investment risk under the insurance policies taken out to meet their obligations.
These scheme assets are shown as insured scheme assets in the table above.
Asset-liability matching strategies In accordance with the governance arrangements set out above, investment strategies are in place to maintain long-term investments which are aligned to the obligations under the defined benefit pension schemes.
The Group actively monitors how the duration and expected yield of the investments match the expected cash outflows arising from the pension obligations.
In addition, for the scheme in the UK, a proportion of the Funds assets are invested in a liability driven investment portfolio.
The objective of this portfolio is to match these assets to a proportion of the Funds liabilities.
The Group has not changed the processes used to manage its risks from prior period.
Maturity profile of the defined benefit obligations The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: UK The Netherlands Belgium Switzerland Weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation years 17 22 12 19 The expected maturity analysis of the undiscounted pension benefits is as follows: UK The Netherlands Belgium Switzerland m m m m Less than a year 16.0 1.4 0.2 0.5 Between 1-2 years 16.4 1.5 0.3 0.5 Between 2-5 years 51.6 4.9 1.3 1.8 Over 5 years 1,016.0 313.2 15.7 35.8 Total as at 31 December 2013 1,100.0 321.0 17.5 38.6 156 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 160 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Expected contributions The effect of the defined benefit plans on the Groups future cash flows as a result of the expected contributions for the year ending 31 December 2014 is as follows: UK The Netherlands Belgium Switzerland m m m m Contributions from the Group 2.6 3.3 0.4 0.8 Contributions from plan participants 0.2 0.7 0.3 Total contributions to the schemes 2.8 4.0 0.4 1.1 Funding arrangements Lloyds Superannuation Fund Contributions are paid to provide for the cost of benefit accrual.
The rate of contribution agreed with the Trustee is 16% 2012: 16% paid by the employer plus 5% 2012: 5% member contributions, in each case of pensionable earnings, and additional contributions as agreed with the Trustee.
Contributions totalled 2.8 million at 31 December 2013 2012: 2.8 million.
The funding position of the Fund is assessed every three years by an independent qualified actuary.
Contributions are made at the funding rates recommended by the actuary and typically include adjustments to amortise any funding surplus or shortfall over a period.
Amounts paid under the scheme are charged to Syndicate 2001 or other Group companies.
The last completed formal valuation of the Fund was as at 31 March 2010 and was completed in June 2011 by Mr R N Wharmby, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries, and used the projected unit credit actuarial method.
On 30 June 2011, the Group agreed a schedule of contributions with the Trustee.
The schedule requires seven separate payments of 2.0 million to the Fund over a period of seven years.
The present value of the future payments has been recognised as a liability at 31 December 2013, to the extent that the contributions will not be available after they are paid into the Fund, as the Funds rules do not allow the Group to receive a refund of contributions in any circumstances.
The Group has also entered into an agreement with the Trustee to hold certain funds within an escrow account.
These funds would be transferred to the Trustee in full for the purpose of defined benefit funding if any one of a number of enforcement events within the agreement were to occur.
The Group made a payment to the escrow account of 4.0 million in May 2013, bringing the total payments made to 14.0 million.
The Group considers it unlikely that any one of the enforcement events defined within the agreement will occur.
The triennial valuation of the Fund as at 31 March 2013 is currently underway, and is being performed by Mr D Wilding, Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Other schemes Funding for the other schemes in operation is in accordance with related insurance arrangements and regulations described above.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 157 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 161 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 4.
Subsidiaries and associates a Acquisition of subsidiary RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. On 1 March 2013, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital and voting rights in RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. and its subsidiaries RaetsMarine for US$49.8 million 33.1 million.
RaetsMarine is a broker, specialising in protection and indemnity P&I and marine liability insurance.
The acquisition is a key part of the Groups strategy to grow its marine business and provide its clients with a comprehensive range of marine insurance products.
The provisional acquisition date fair value of the total consideration transferred, identifiable assets acquired and resulting goodwill is as follows: m Initial cash consideration 28.3 Deferred cash consideration 4.8 Fair value of contingent consideration Total purchase consideration 33.1 Fair value of assets acquired see below 19.6 Goodwill 13.5 The goodwill shown above arose from the premium paid for the opportunities to exploit further growth and dislocation opportunities in the market, and the ability of the Group to leverage its existing presence in London and Singapore to attract new business to RaetsMarine.
No provision for impairment of goodwill has been made at the reporting date.
The assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date were stated at their provisional fair values in the 2013 Interim Report.
Further evidence of the appropriate fair values was received in the second half of 2013 and adjustments have been made, in accordance with paragraph 45 of IFRS 3, Business combinations, as follows: Provisional acquisition date fair value Fair value Revised acquisition 2013 Interim Report adjustments date fair value m m m Cash and cash equivalents 19.5 19.5 Financial assets 0.1 0.1 Loans and receivables, including insurance and reinsurance receivables insurance and reinsurance receivables 18.5 18.5 other loans and receivables 3.8 3.8 Property and equipment 2.4 2.4 Goodwill and intangible assets 22.4 22.4 Total assets 66.7 66.7 Other payables, including insurance and reinsurance payables insurance and reinsurance payables 28.4 28.4 other payables 12.2 12.2 Borrowings 0.7 0.7 Deferred tax liabilities 5.9 0.1 5.8 Total liabilities 47.2 0.1 47.1 Net assets acquired 19.5 0.1 19.6 The corresponding adjustment is to goodwill on acquisition.
Goodwill and intangible assets of 22.4 million shown above relate to broker and customer relationships.
The gross contractual amount of insurance and reinsurance receivables is 18.7 million.
The best estimate of the contractual cash flows not expected to be received as of the acquisition date is 0.2 million.
Total acquisition related costs were 0.6 million.
Of these costs 0.3 million have been recognised as an expense within other operating expenses for the period ended 31 December 2013.
The remainder of the acquisition related costs were incurred in prior periods.
As part of the acquisition agreement, the Group has a contractual obligation for contingent consideration relating to an earn out arrangement.
The final amount is payable by 1 April 2015 and is based on RaetsMarines hull and cargo claims ratios for the 2010, 2011 and 2012 underwriting years.
The undiscounted range of outcomes of the final amount payable is US$nil nil to US$15.0 million 9.9 million.
The fair value of the contingent consideration has been determined using a discounted cash flow model, with the key input being the forecast claims ratios for the relevant lines of business.
At the reporting date the fair value of the contingent consideration was US$nil nil.
162 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 162 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group also entered into a management incentive plan arrangement with the management of RaetsMarine which has been recognised separately from the acquisition.
The transaction comprises an initial payment totalling US$4.0 million 2.6 million and a management incentive pool of up to US$12.0 million 7.9 million, with the final amount payable based on the future net written premium growth and claims ratio performance of RaetsMarines P&I business.
In the period to 31 December 2013, 2.6 million has been recognised in other operating expenses in the consolidated statement of profit or loss, and 0.5 million has been recognised in other payables in the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2013. b Significant judgements in determining control The Group has made significant judgements and assumptions in reaching its control conclusions for the following entities: i.
Investment funds The Group holds financial investments in a number of pooled vehicles, which are typically sub-funds of umbrella structures.
In certain instances the Group holds a majority of the voting rights in particular sub-funds.
The Group has determined that it neither controls nor significantly influences these sub-funds despite owning a majority of the voting rights, on the basis that direction of the relevant activities of the sub-funds is by the umbrella vehicle, over which the Group has no significant rights.
Such entities are accounted for as financial investments in accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP LCP The Group holds 50% of the voting rights in LCP.
Owing to the Groups historical contractual commitments to LCP, as detailed below, the potential voting rights arising from an option held to acquire the share of the partnership not already held, and its interests in the funds managed by LCP, the Group has assessed whether it has fide facto control over the entity.
The Group has determined that it does not have controlling power over LCP as significant decision making requires the consent of more than one party to the arrangement and LCP is therefore collectively controlled.
However, such significant decisions do not require the unanimous consent of all the controlling parties and therefore LCP does not meet the definition of a joint arrangement under IFRS 11.
The Group is therefore considered to have significant influence over LCP and its interest is accounted for as an investment in associate using the equity method accordingly.
c Principal subsidiaries The principal subsidiaries at 31 December 2013 which are consolidated in these financial statements are detailed below.
Unless otherwise stated, the Group owns 100% of ordinary share capital and voting rights in these entities: Subsidiaries Principal activity Registered in Allied Cedar Insurance Group Limited Intermediate holding company England and Wales Amlin AG Reinsurance company Switzerland Amlin Bermuda Holdings Limited Finance company Bermuda Amlin Corporate Member Limited Corporate member at Lloyds England and Wales Amlin Corporate Services Limited Group service, employing and intermediate holding company England and Wales Amlin Europe N. V. Insurance company The Netherlands Amlin France Holdings SAS Intermediate holding company France Amlin France SAS Lloyds coverholder France Amlin Insurance UK Limited Insurance company England and Wales Amlin Overseas Holdings Limited Intermediate holding company England and Wales 1 Amlin Plus Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales Amlin Singapore Pte Limited Lloyds service company Singapore Amlin Underwriting Limited Lloyds managing agency England and Wales Amlin Underwriting Services Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales AUA Insolvency Risk Services Limited Regulated broker England and Wales JR Clare Underwriting Agencies Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales Lead Yacht Underwriters Limited Lloyds coverholder England and Wales RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. Broker The Netherlands Note: 1.
Some subsidiaries have been omitted from this statement to avoid providing particulars of excessive length but none materially affects the results or net assets of the Group.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 163 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 163 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 4.
Subsidiaries and associates continued d Investments in associates The Group owns interests in three associates: Miles Smith Holdings Limited, Manchester Underwriting Management Limited and Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP.
The aggregate amount of the Groups share of profit after tax from these investments during the year is as follows: 2013 2012 m m Share of profit after tax of associates 3.9 0.5 Total comprehensive income 3.9 0.5 At 31 December 2013, the Group had an aggregate balance receivable from associates, excluding loans as detailed below, of 6.4 million 2012: 9.9 million.
No amounts were provided for doubtful recovery of outstanding balances and no expense was recognised during the year in respect of bad or doubtful debts due from associates.
The Group has a loan to Miles Smith Holdings Limited of 0.2 million 2012: 0.3 million.
The loan is repayable in three instalments, with the final instalment due on 31 December 2014.
Interest on the loan is charged at 4.0% over the three-month LIBOR.
Convertible loan stock of 0.7 million 2012: 0.7 million has been issued by the associate to the Group.
The conversion date is 31 December 2015.
Interest on the convertible loan stock is accrued at 5.0% over five-year gilts.
The Group has a loan to Manchester Underwriting Management Limited of 2.7 million 2012: 1.0 million.
The loan is repayable in full on dates between 31 December 2014 and 21 November 2018.
Interest is charged at rates between 5.0% and 5.5% above the Bank of England base rate.
The Group had a contractual commitment to pay up to US$7.0 million to support the operations of Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP.
At 31 December 2013, 2.5 million 2012: 2.5 million was drawn on this agreement which is included within the Groups investment in associate balance.
This contractual commitment expired on 31 December 2012. e Interests in unconsolidated structured entities As noted above, the Group holds financial investments in certain pooled vehicles which are typically sub-funds of umbrella structures.
These sub-funds meet the definition of structured entities under IFRS 10 as voting and similar rights are not the dominant factor in determining who controls the entity.
Decision making at the sub-fund level is typically restricted to administrative tasks only, and instead it is the voting rights at the umbrella level which determines the control of the sub-funds.
The investments which meet the definition of structured entities are the Groups investments in pooled vehicles liquidity funds and pooled vehicles bonds and LIBOR plus funds, as listed in note 3.2.
The funds under management with each of the fund managers in these pooled vehicles are also included within the same note.
These amounts are recorded within financial assets on the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
The maximum exposure to loss from the Groups interests in unconsolidated structured entities is 100% of the funds invested in those entities, should the fair value of the assets held deteriorate to nil.
The Group has provided no financial or other support to any unconsolidated structured entities in the period outside of transactions in the ordinary course of investment management, and has no current intentions to do so.
164 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 164 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
Segmental reporting a Basis of segmentation Management has determined the Groups operating segments based on the management information reviewed by the chief operating decision maker that is used to make strategic decisions.
All operating segments used by management meet the definition of a reportable segment under IFRS 8, Operating segments.
The Group is organised into six operating segments.
Segments represent the distinct units through which the Group is organised and managed.
These segments are as follows:  Amlin London, underwriting Reinsurance, Property & Casualty and Marine & Aviation business, via Syndicate 2001:  Amlin UK, underwriting commercial insurance in the UK domestic market, via Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Insurance UK Limited:  Amlin Bermuda, which writes predominantly property reinsurance business, via Amlin AG, including reinsurance ceded by Syndicate 2001:  Amlin Re Europe, which writes Continental European non-life reinsurance business, via Amlin AG:  Amlin Europe, including Amlin Europe N. V. a leading provider of marine, corporate property and casualty insurance in the Netherlands and Belgium and specialty business in France: and  Other corporate companies, comprising all other entities of the Group including holding companies.
Included within the intra group items column are consolidation adjustments.
Transactions between segments are carried out at arms length.
The revenue from external parties reported to the chief operating decision maker is measured in a manner consistent with that in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and for the geographic segmental splits revenues are allocated based on the country in which the insurance risk is located.
Management considers its external customers to be the individual policyholders, and as such the Group is not reliant on any individual customer.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 165 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 165 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 5.
Segmental reporting continued b Segmental information Segmental information for the reportable segments of the Group is provided below.
Other operating income is mainly agency fees payable by Syndicate 2001 to Amlin Underwriting Limited and external commission income earned by service companies.
Agency expenses allocated to segments represent fees and commission payable to Amlin Underwriting Limited.
Finance costs are incurred in support of the entire business of the Group and have not been allocated to particular segments.
Included within the gross written premium of Amlin Bermuda is premium ceded from Amlin London, Amlin UK and Amlin Europe amounting to 197.8 million on reinsurance contracts undertaken at commercial rates 2012: 207.4 million.
Investment return in other corporate companies includes a 40.0 million gain 2012: 14.2 million gain generated from investments in Funds at Lloyds that support the business reported in the Amlin London, Amlin UK and Amlin Europe segments.
The table below illustrates the claims, expense and combined ratio excluding whole account quota share WAQS intra group reinsurance arrangements: Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Re Amlin Excluding WAQS intra group reinsurance arrangements London UK Bermuda Europe Europe Total Claims ratio 56% 60% 47% 73% 59% 57% Expenses ratio 34% 33% 24% 26% 39% 32% Combined ratio 90% 93% 71% 99% 98% 89% Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 167 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 167 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 5.
Segmental reporting continued c Reconciliation between management information and the consolidated statement of profit or loss The table below shows the reconciliation between the management information provided to the chief operating decision maker and the consolidated statement of profit or loss.
Year ended 31 December 2013 Year ended 31 December 2012 IFRS IFRS Consolidated Consolidated Management Reconciling statement of Management Reconciling statement of profit information items profit or loss information items or loss m m m m m m Gross written premium 2,467.4 2,467.4 2,405.6 2,405.6 Net written premium 2,107.4 18.2 2,125.6 2,058.6 15.9 2,074.5 Gross earned premium 2,440.6 2,440.6 2,319.0 2,319.0 Reinsurance premium ceded 363.2 17.2 346.0 348.5 15.9 332.6 Net earned premium 2,077.4 17.2 2,094.6 1,970.5 15.9 1,986.4 Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses 1,153.1 1,153.1 1,197.3 1,197.3 Reinsurance recoveries 60.0 60.0 72.7 72.7 Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 450.9 450.9 422.5 422.5 Underwriting expenses 250.3 250.3 216.3 216.3 Profit attributable to underwriting 283.1 17.2 300.3 207.1 15.9 223.0 Investment return 160.4 17.2 143.2 165.3 15.9 149.4 Other operating income 4.3 4.3 5.6 5.6 Other non-underwriting expenses 97.0 97.0 86.7 86.7 Result of operating activities 350.8 350.8 291.3 291.3 Finance costs 29.0 29.0 27.6 27.6 Share of profit after tax of associates 3.9 3.9 0.5 0.5 Profit before tax 325.7 325.7 264.2 264.2 The reconciling items disclosed in the table above relate to items of income and expense under the Groups contracts with Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd. From a management information perspective, these instruments are insurance linked and therefore these balances are included within the Groups profit attributable to underwriting in the segmental information.
Under IAS 39, the instruments are classified as derivatives and therefore such items of income and expense are reported through investment return in the Groups consolidated statement of profit or loss.
Net earned premium 2013 2012 Note m m Gross earned premium Gross written premium 5, 19 2,467.4 2,405.6 Change in unearned premium 26.8 86.6 2,440.6 2,319.0 Reinsurance premium ceded Reinsurance premium payable 19 341.8 331.1 Change in reinsurers share of unearned premium 4.2 1.5 346.0 332.6 2,094.6 1,986.4 168 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 168 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
Investment return 2013 2012 Note m m Investment income dividend income 16.3 11.3 interest income 27.5 31.1 cash and cash equivalents interest income 2.9 5.6 46.7 48.0 Net realised gains losses on assets held for trading equity securities 25.6 7.0 1 debt securities 71.9 28.4 property funds 3.6 0.1 derivative instruments 6.2 6.9 derivative instruments relating to the Groups contracts with Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd 5 15.7 15.9 on assets classified as other than trading participation in investment pools 2.0 3.3 81.2 15.8 Net unrealised gains losses on assets held for trading equity securities 44.7 11.5 1 debt securities 48.9 77.7 property funds 0.4 2.7 derivative instruments 19.0 0.9 derivative instruments relating to the Groups contracts with Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd 5 1.5 on assets classified as other than trading other 1.6 15.3 85.6 143.2 149.4 Notes: 1 Included within debt securities held for trading are realised and unrealised gains of 0.2 million and 3.9 million respectively, relating to the investment in the funds managed by Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP 2012: 1.8 million gains and 2.6million gains.
Net insurance claims 2013 2012 Note m m Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses Current year insurance claims and claims settlement expenses 19 1,303.6 1,291.6 Reduced costs for prior period insurance claims 19 150.5 94.3 1,153.1 1,197.3 Insurance claims and claims settlement expenses recoverable from reinsurers Current year insurance claims and claims settlement expenses recoverable from reinsurers 19 77.0 72.8 Reduced income from prior period insurance claims recoverable from reinsurers 19 17.0 0.1 60.0 72.7 1,093.1 1,124.6 9.
Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 2013 2012 Note m m Expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 21 458.2 454.8 Changes in deferred expenses for the acquisition of insurance contracts 7.3 32.3 450.9 422.5 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 169 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 169 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 10.
Other operating expenses 2013 2012 Note m m Expenses relating to underwriting Employee expenses, excluding employee incentives 132.6 115.3 Lloyds expenses 20.9 19.3 Other administrative expenses 86.3 71.2 Underwriting foreign exchange losses 16 10.5 10.5 250.3 216.3 Other expenses Employee expenses, excluding employee incentives 18.9 13.9 Employee incentive and related social security costs 53.4 34.8 Asset management fees 14.0 6.4 Other administrative expenses 16.1 18.8 Amlin Europe N. V. disentanglement and integration costs 20.6 Non-underwriting foreign exchange gains 16 5.4 7.8 97.0 86.7 347.3 303.0 Employee and other administrative expenses not relating to underwriting represent costs associated with the corporate activities of the Group.
Amlin Europe N. V. disentanglement and integration costs include expenditure incurred on the systems replacement programme which completed in 2012.
Directors remuneration The aggregate remuneration of the Directors of the Company, including amounts received from subsidiaries, was: 2013 2012 m m Remuneration of Executive Directors 3.6 3.0 Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors 0.6 0.6 Amounts excluding equity settled share options and awards receivable under long-term incentive schemes 2.5 1.1 6.7 4.7 Pension contributions 0.1 0.1 6.8 4.8 Details of Directors remuneration and pension benefits, including those of the highest paid Director, are included in the Remuneration Report in the Governance section of the Annual Report.
Payments were made to both a defined benefit pension scheme and a stakeholder defined contribution scheme for two 2012: two Executive Directors and to a stakeholder defined contribution scheme for one 2012: two other Executive Director.
170 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 170 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12.
Employee benefit expenses The average number of persons employed by the Group, including individuals on fixed term contracts and Directors, were: 2013 2012 Underwriting divisions Underwriting, claims and reinsurance 924 787 Administration and support 665 595 Corporate Centre functions Operations 214 188 Finance 44 43 Internal audit and compliance 15 15 1,862 1,628 2013 2012 By location UK 1,123 1,038 Continental Europe 654 530 Bermuda 51 46 Singapore 30 13 US 4 1 1,862 1,628 The aggregate payroll costs incurred by Group companies are analysed as follows: 2013 2012 Note m m Wages and salaries 122.5 111.8 Employee incentive and related social security costs 53.4 34.8 Equity settled share options and awards granted to Directors and employees 28 5.1 4.4 Social security costs 16.5 14.4 Pension costs defined contribution schemes 32 7.8 6.6 Pension costs defined benefit schemes 32 7.2 6.4 212.5 178.4 13.
Finance costs 2013 2012 m m Letter of credit commission 1.8 1.1 Revolving credit facility 3.2 1.8 Subordinated debt interest 19.5 20.2 Other similar charges 4.5 4.5 29.0 27.6 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 171 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 171 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 14.
Profit before tax Profit before tax is stated after charging the following amounts: 2013 2012 Note m m Depreciation 22 7.4 6.2 Amortisation 23 11.2 7.3 Operating lease expenditure 35 9.6 9.7 Foreign exchange losses 16 5.1 2.7 Fees paid to the Groups auditors in respect of the financial year are set out below: 2013 2012 000 000 Audit Audit of the Groups and Companys annual financial statements 151.6 161.3 Audit of subsidiaries 966.7 1,106.1 1,118.3 1,267.4 Assurance services Audit-related assurance services 286.9 308.6 Other assurance services 19.3 23.3 306.2 331.9 Services relating to taxation Tax advisory services 40.0 84.7 40.0 84.7 Other non-audit services Internal audit services 20.0 Services related to corporate finance transactions 100.3 1 Other services 202.3 617.8 202.3 738.1 Total fees 1,666.8 2,422.1 Note: 1.
Other services include nil in 2013 2012: 562,000 relating to advisory work to assess the Groups financial reporting systems and scope a finance transformation project.
For more detailed explanation of the process for authorisation see the Audit Committee report on page 76.
172 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 172 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
Tax Restated 2013 2012 m m Current tax current year Corporate income tax 13.7 23.3 Foreign tax 2.8 6.4 Double tax relief 3.8 10.9 25.9 Current tax adjustments in respect of previous years Corporate income tax 0.1 7.2 Deferred tax current year Origination and reversal of temporary differences 41.5 1.3 Deferred tax adjustments in respect of previous years Movements for the year 1.9 1.5 Impact of change in UK tax rate 5.6 2.5 3.7 1.0 Income tax expense 27.0 16.4 In addition to the above, tax of 1.8 million 2012 restated: 1.9 million credit has been charged directly to other comprehensive income as follows: Restated 2013 2012 m m Deferred tax on defined benefit pension fund actuarial gains losses 2.3 1.6 Income tax on items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 2.3 1.6 Current tax on foreign exchange losses on translation of foreign operations, net of designated hedges 0.5 1.0 Current tax charged on other items within other comprehensive income 0.7 Income tax on items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 0.5 0.3 Taxes charged credited to other comprehensive income 1.8 1.9 In addition to the above, tax of 0.3 million 2012: 0.1 million credited has been charged directly to other reserves as follows: 2013 2012 m m Deferred tax relating to employee share option schemes 0.3 0.1 Taxes charged credited to other reserves 0.3 0.1 Reconciliation of tax expense The UK standard rate of corporation tax is 23.25% 2012: 24.5%, whereas the tax charged for the year ended 31 December 2013 as a percentage of profit 2012: profit before tax is 8.3% 2012 restated: 6.2%.
The reasons for this difference are explained below: Restated Restated 2013 2013 2012 2012 m % m % Profit before tax 325.7 264.2 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 75.7 23.3 64.8 24.5 Non-deductible or non-taxable items 2.9 0.9 0.1 Tax rate differences on foreign subsidiaries 45.0 13.8 42.9 16.2 Adjustments in respect of previous years 2.0 0.6 5.7 2.1 Irrecoverable foreign tax 2.8 0.8 2.6 0.9 UK deferred tax rate change 5.6 1.7 2.5 0.9 Income tax expense 27.0 8.3 16.4 6.2 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 173 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 173 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 15.
Tax continued Deferred tax The deferred tax asset is attributable to temporary differences arising on the following: Other Provisions Other Pension temporary for losses provisions provisions differences Total 2012 Restated m m m m m At 1 January 2012 38.4 5.1 8.0 24.6 26.9 Movements in the year 10.2 3.6 0.3 7.9 21.4 Amounts netted off against deferred tax liabilities 10.3 10.3 At 31 December 2012 28.2 1.5 8.3 22.2 15.8 Movements in the year 12.9 0.8 4.2 15.6 0.7 Amounts netted off against deferred tax liabilities 9.0 9.0 At 31 December 2013 15.3 2.3 4.1 15.6 6.1 The deferred tax liability is attributable to temporary differences arising on the following: Other Underwriting Unrealised Syndicate temporary results capital gains capacity Intangibles differences Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 10.5 7.5 6.7 11.4 6.3 42.4 Movements in the year 17.7 5.7 0.1 1.7 11.8 25.4 Amounts netted off against deferred tax assets 10.3 10.3 Other movements 0.6 0.6 At 31 December 2012 7.2 13.2 6.8 9.7 5.4 27.9 Movements in the year 27.3 2.5 0.3 9.8 1.6 32.7 Opening balances recognised on acquisition of subsidiaries 5.6 0.2 5.8 Amounts netted off against deferred tax assets 9.0 9.0 Other movements 0.1 0.2 0.1 At 31 December 2013 20.1 10.7 6.5 14.0 12.4 63.7 A deferred tax liability of 37.4 million 2012 restated: 21.0 million is expected to crystallise more than 12 months after the consolidated statement of financial position date.
UK tax rate Recent UK budgets have announced changes in the main rate of UK corporation tax.
The current rate of 23.0% was enacted on 3 July 2012 and applies from 1 April 2013.
Further rate reductions have been announced, with the most recent being announced in the March 2013 budget, which will ultimately reduce the main rate to 20.0% applying from 1 April 2015.
Underwriting profits Underwriting profits and losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss on an annual accounting basis, recognising the results in the period in which they are earned.
UK corporation tax on Syndicate 2001s underwriting result is charged in the period in which the underwriting profits are actually paid by the Syndicate to the corporate member subsidiary.
This creates a deferred tax position.
Deferred tax is provided on the underwriting result with reference to the forecast ultimate result of each of the years of account.
Where this is a taxable loss, deferred tax is only provided on the movement on that year of account to the extent that forecasts show that the taxable loss will be utilised in the foreseeable future.
A deferred tax liability before netting off has been recognised on the underwriting result for this accounting period of 27.3 million 2012: 17.7 million asset.
The Group is subject to US tax on US underwriting profits.
No provision has been made in respect of such tax arising in 2013 2012: nil as any net provision is likely to be immaterial.
Controlled Foreign Companies legislation Amlin AG operates in Switzerland as Amlin Re Europe, with the Bermudian business operating as a branch.
The Groups tax provision for 2013 has been prepared on the basis that Amlin AG is non-UK resident for UK corporation tax purposes and is exempt from the UK controlled foreign company regime.
The corporation tax rate for profits earned by the Bermudian branch of Amlin AG is currently nil% 2012: nil%.
The combined rate of Swiss cantonal and federal taxes, applicable to profits arising from the Swiss operation only, is 21.2% 2012: 21.2%.
174 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 174 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred tax rate Deferred tax has been provided for at the local tax rate in force when the temporary differences are expected to reverse.
The UK tax rate applied for deferred tax purposes 20.0% was substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
Net foreign exchange losses The Group recognised net foreign exchange losses of 5.1 million 2012: 2.7 million in the consolidated statement of profit or loss during the year.
The Group writes business in many currencies and although a large proportion of the Groups consolidated statement of financial position assets and liabilities are matched, minimising the effect of movements in foreign exchange rates on the Groups result, it is not practical to match exactly all assets and liabilities in currency.
Accounting standards also require that certain classes of assets and liabilities be translated at different rates see foreign currency translation accounting policy in note 1.
Included within the Groups foreign exchange losses in the consolidated statement of profit or loss are: 2013 2012 m m Underwriting exchange losses 10.5 10.5 Non-underwriting exchange gains 5.4 7.8 Total net foreign exchange losses 5.1 2.7 In addition, the following exchange movements have been charged directly to other comprehensive income: 2013 2012 m m Gains losses on translation of foreign operations: Amlin Bermuda 17.0 51.6 RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. 0.8 Amlin France SAS 0.1 0.1 Amlin Europe N. V. 2.1 3.3 Amlin Re Europe 0.1 0.2 Solo Absolute Bonds & Currency Fund 1.0 7.2 16.7 55.2 Gains on financial instruments that hedge investments in foreign operations 0.5 3.7 Gains losses on translation of intangibles arising from investments in foreign operations 0.2 1.9 Foreign exchange losses on translation of foreign operations, net of designated hedges 16.0 53.4 17.
Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 m m Cash and cash in hand 125.8 153.3 Short-term deposits 38.7 37.3 164.5 190.6 Cash and cash equivalents represent cash at bank and in hand, short-term bank deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are subject to insignificant risk of changes in fair value.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 175 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 175 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 18.
Financial assets and financial liabilities a Net financial investments At valuation At valuation At cost At cost 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Assets Financial assets held for trading at fair value through profit or loss Shares and other variable yield securities 515.9 279.3 452.4 259.7 Debt and other fixed income securities 3,128.2 2,717.4 3,069.6 2,797.6 Property funds 181.0 153.6 185.7 158.8 Derivative instruments 18.9 6.8 0.6 Other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Participation in investment pools 379.2 997.1 379.2 997.1 Deposits with credit institutions 119.4 42.9 119.4 42.9 Other 2.6 1.2 1.1 1.2 Available-for-sale financial assets Unlisted equities 6.7 4.7 6.7 4.7 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 16.9 2.0 Total financial assets 4,368.8 4,205.0 4,214.7 4,262.0 Liabilities Financial liabilities held for trading at fair value through profit or loss Derivative instruments 4.7 5.0 0.6 Other Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 0.7 Total financial liabilities 4.7 5.7 0.6 Net financial assets 4,364.1 4,199.3 4,214.1 4,262.0 Debt and other fixed income securities include pooled funds, investing in bonds and other fixed income securities.
The valuation of these funds is 1,820.8 million 2012: 1,364.8 million.
Participation in investment pools includes units held in money market funds.
The Group holds hedging and non-hedging derivatives.
Hedging derivatives are designated at inception and qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Non-hedging derivatives either do not qualify for hedge accounting or the option to hedge account has not been taken.
The reconciliation of opening and closing financial investments is as follows: 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 4,199.3 3,972.9 Foreign exchange losses 28.9 109.6 Net purchases 92.1 234.1 Net realised gains on assets held for trading or other than trading 81.2 15.8 Net unrealised gains on assets held for trading or other than trading 15.3 85.6 Net unrealised gains on assets designated as available-for-sale 0.5 Acquisition through business combination 0.1 Net realised and unrealised gains on derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 5.0 At 31 December 4,364.1 4,199.3 176 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 176 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS b Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities The Groups derivative transactions with respect to over-the-counter options and currency forwards are subject to International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master netting agreements.
Transactions under such agreements meet the criteria for offsetting in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group also receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash in respect of the derivative transactions.
The fair value of the Groups options and currency forwards are not offset by such collaterals as they create a right of set-off that is enforceable only following an event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Group or the counterparties.
The Groups listed futures are transacted under Global Principal Clearing agreements and are not subject to offsetting in the statement of financial position.
In addition, the Group and its counterparties do not intend to settle on a net basis or to realise the assets and the liabilities simultaneously.
The disclosure provided in the tables below include derivatives that are set off in the Groups statement of financial position.
Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the recognised financial financial assets statement of financial position Gross amounts liabilities set off in presented in of recognised the statement of the statement of Financial Cash collateral financial assets financial position financial position instruments received Net amount 31 December 2013 m m m m m m Derivative instruments held for trading 1,040.5 1,021.6 18.9 0.2 3.7 15.0 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 95.7 78.8 16.9 16.2 0.7 1,136.2 1,100.4 35.8 0.2 19.9 15.7 Gross amounts of Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the recognised financial financial assets statement of financial position Gross amounts liabilities set off in presented in of recognised the statement of the statement of Financial Cash collateral financial assets financial position financial position instruments received Net amount 31 December 2012 m m m m m m Derivative instruments held for trading 539.2 532.4 6.8 0.1 0.7 6.0 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 3.3 1.3 2.0 1.2 0.8 542.5 533.7 8.8 0.1 1.9 6.8 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the recognised financial financial liabilities statement of financial position Gross amounts assets set off in presented in of recognised the statement of the statement of Financial Cash collateral financial liabilities financial position financial position instruments pledged Net amount 31 December 2013 m m m m m m Derivative instruments held for trading 1,026.3 1,021.6 4.7 0.2 2.4 2.1 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 78.8 78.8 1,105.1 1,100.4 4.7 0.2 2.4 2.1 Gross amounts of Net amounts of Related amounts not set off in the recognised financial financial liabilities statement of financial position Gross amounts assets set off in presented in of recognised the statement of the statement of Financial Cash collateral financial liabilities financial position financial position instruments pledged Net amount 31 December 2012 m m m m m m Derivative instruments held for trading 537.4 532.4 5.0 0.1 1.5 3.4 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2.0 1.3 0.7 1.0 0.3 539.4 533.7 5.7 0.1 2.5 3.1 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 177 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 177 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 19.
Insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2013 2012 Insurance Reinsurers Net Insurance Reinsurers Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Outstanding claims Note m m m m m m At 1 January 3,083.5 478.6 2,604.9 3,273.6 617.0 2,656.6 Claims incurred during the current year 8 1,303.6 77.0 1,226.6 1,291.6 72.8 1,218.8 Movements arising from prior year claims 8 150.5 17.0 133.5 94.3 0.1 94.2 Claims paid during the year 1,330.2 183.5 1,146.7 1,295.6 195.5 1,100.1 Accretion of fair value adjustment 4.7 0.8 3.9 4.7 0.8 3.9 Other movements 0.5 0.5 1.9 1.9 Exchange adjustments 14.0 13.3 0.7 96.5 14.5 82.0 At 31 December 2,897.1 343.1 2,554.0 3,083.5 478.6 2,604.9 In connection with the purchase accounting for the acquisition of Amlin Europe N. V. the Group adjusted outstanding claims and related reinsurers share of outstanding claims to fair value on acquisition.
The reduction to the original carrying value of 39.1 million and 6.4 million to outstanding claims and reinsurers share of outstanding claims respectively is being recognised through a charge to the consolidated statement of profit or loss over the period the claims are settled.
This net charge was 3.9 million in 2013 2012: 3.9 million.
The fair value was based on the present value of the expected cash flows with consideration for the uncertainty inherent in both the timing of, and the ultimate amount of, future payments for losses and receipts of amounts recoverable from reinsurers.
The nominal amounts were discounted to their present value using an applicable risk-free discount rate.
Further information on the calculation of outstanding claims and the risks associated with them is provided in the risk disclosures in note 3.
Outstanding claims are further analysed between notified outstanding claims and claims incurred but not reported below: 2013 2012 Insurance Reinsurers Net Insurance Reinsurers Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Outstanding claims m m m m m m Notified outstanding claims 2,125.6 291.0 1,834.6 2,200.6 394.2 1,806.4 Claims incurred but not reported 771.5 52.1 719.4 882.9 84.4 798.5 2,897.1 343.1 2,554.0 3,083.5 478.6 2,604.9 The current and non-current portions for outstanding claims are expected to be as follows: 2013 2012 Insurance Reinsurers Net Insurance Reinsurers Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Outstanding claims m m m m m m Current portion 1,082.5 141.5 941.0 1,126.4 190.3 936.1 Non-current portion 1,814.6 201.6 1,613.0 1,957.1 288.3 1,668.8 2,897.1 343.1 2,554.0 3,083.5 478.6 2,604.9 178 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 178 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 2012 Insurance Reinsurers Net Insurance Reinsurers Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Unearned premium Note m m m m m m At 1 January 1,054.8 46.8 1,008.0 998.0 50.4 947.6 Premium written during the year 6 2,467.4 341.8 2,125.6 2,405.6 331.1 2,074.5 Premium earned during the year 6 2,440.6 346.0 2,094.6 2,319.0 332.6 1,986.4 Exchange adjustments 12.3 2.5 9.8 29.8 2.1 27.7 At 31 December 1,093.9 45.1 1,048.8 1,054.8 46.8 1,008.0 The current and non-current portions for unearned premium are expected to be as follows: 2013 2012 Insurance Reinsurers Net Insurance Reinsurers Net liabilities share liabilities liabilities share liabilities Unearned premium m m m m m m Current portion 976.6 27.7 948.9 926.1 28.6 897.5 Non-current portion 117.3 17.4 99.9 128.7 18.2 110.5 1,093.9 45.1 1,048.8 1,054.8 46.8 1,008.0 The total reinsurers share of outstanding claims and unearned premium is set out in the table below: 2013 2012 m m Reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 404.1 541.6 Less provision for impairment of receivables from reinsurers 15.9 16.2 Reinsurance assets 388.2 525.4 The Group assesses its reinsurers share of outstanding claims for impairment on a quarterly basis by reviewing counterparty payment history and credit grades provided by rating agencies.
The credit ratings of the Groups reinsurers share of outstanding claims are shown in note 3.2.
As at 31 December 2013 there were nil million 2012: 1.2 million reinsurance assets greater than three months overdue.
The Group holds collateral of 64.6 million 2012 restated: 102.5 million in relation to reinsurers share of outstanding claims.
Details are included in note 29.
The Group has recognised a nil total net impairment loss 2012: nil on reinsurance assets and insurance and reinsurance receivables.
Loans and receivables, including insurance and reinsurance receivables 2013 2012 m m Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts 1,033.1 1,021.6 Less provision for impairment of receivables from contract holders and agents 19.3 18.4 Insurance and reinsurance receivables 1,013.8 1,003.2 Other receivables 63.8 56.4 Prepayments and other accrued income 24.6 25.8 Other loans and receivables 88.4 82.2 1,102.2 1,085.4 Receivables arising from reinsurance contracts are comprised principally of amounts recoverable from reinsurers in respect of paid claims and premium receivables on inward reinsurance business, including reinstatement premium.
Other receivables comprise principally of amounts receivable from investment managers for financial investments sold, input VAT and other sundry receivables.
The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2013 2012 m m Current portion 1,065.4 1,037.2 Non-current portion 36.8 48.2 1,102.2 1,085.4 The Group assesses its insurance and reinsurance receivables for impairment on a quarterly basis by reviewing counterparty payment history and for circumstances which may give rise to a dispute or default.
At 31 December 2013, insurance and reinsurance receivables at a nominal value of 51.2 million 2012: 16.8 million were greater than three months overdue and provided for on the basis of credit rating to the value of 10.8 million 2012: 9.0 million.
The carrying amounts disclosed above are reasonably approximate to the fair value at the reporting date.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 179 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 179 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 20.
Loans and receivables, including insurance and reinsurance receivables continued The ageing analysis of insurance and reinsurance receivables overdue, before impairment provision, is as follows: 2013 2012 m m 3 to 6 months 20.3 6.2 6 to 9 months 14.5 3.7 Greater than 9 months 16.4 6.9 51.2 16.8 The Netherlands and Belgium business of Amlin Europe N. V. did not produce an ageing report for insurance receivables in 2012 due to the interaction of local market practice and the offices internal systems.
For comparative purposes, the 2013 values relating to The Netherlands and Belgium business of Amlin Europe N. V. are 13.1 million for 3 to 6 months, 7.9 million for 6 to 9 months and 10.4 million for greater than 9 months.
Movements on the Groups provision for impairment of receivables from contract holders and agents are as follows: 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 18.4 20.0 Increase in the provision 2.8 6.2 Utilised provision 0.7 3.5 Release of unused provision 1.3 3.7 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0.6 At 31 December 19.3 18.4 21.
Deferred acquisition costs The reconciliation of opening and closing deferred acquisition costs is as follows: 2013 2012 Note m m At 1 January 239.3 207.7 Expense deferred 9 458.2 454.8 Amortisation 9 450.9 422.5 Other movements 0.5 0.7 At 31 December 246.1 239.3 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2013 2012 m m Current portion 220.0 209.9 Non-current portion 26.1 29.4 246.1 239.3 180 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 180 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22.
Property and equipment Fixtures, fittings Freehold land Leasehold land Motor Computer and leasehold and buildings and buildings vehicles equipment improvements Total Note m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 7.2 0.1 40.8 14.9 63.0 Additions 1.5 2.2 0.3 2.6 0.7 7.3 Acquisition through business combination 0.6 0.4 1.4 2.4 Disposals 0.1 0.2 0.3 Foreign exchange losses 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 31 December 2013 8.7 2.2 0.8 43.6 16.8 72.1 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2013 0.4 33.1 9.1 42.6 Charge for the year 14 0.1 0.2 4.8 2.3 7.4 Disposals 0.1 0.2 0.3 Foreign exchange gains 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2013 0.5 0.1 37.6 11.3 49.5 Net book value At 31 December 2013 8.2 2.2 0.7 6.0 5.5 22.6 At 1 January 2013 6.8 0.1 7.7 5.8 20.4 Fixtures, fittings Leasehold land Freehold land Motor Computer and leasehold and buildings and buildings vehicles equipment improvements Total Note m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 6.8 0.1 36.9 14.4 58.2 Additions 0.4 4.4 2.1 6.9 Disposals 0.3 1.5 1.8 Foreign exchange losses 0.2 0.1 0.3 At 31 December 2012 7.2 0.1 40.8 14.9 63.0 Accumulated depreciation At 1 January 2012 0.3 28.8 9.2 38.3 Charge for the year 14 0.1 4.6 1.5 6.2 Disposals 0.2 1.5 1.7 Foreign exchange gains 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 31 December 2012 0.4 33.1 9.1 42.6 Net book value At 31 December 2012 6.8 0.1 7.7 5.8 20.4 At 1 January 2012 6.5 0.1 8.1 5.2 19.9 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 181 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 181 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 23.
Goodwill and intangible assets Broker and Syndicate customer Computer Other Goodwill participations relationships software intangibles Total Note m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2013 75.5 63.2 49.4 44.2 2.9 235.2 Additions 2.2 0.3 2.5 Acquisition through business combination 4 13.5 22.4 35.9 Foreign exchange gains losses 0.5 0.1 0.3 0.7 At 31 December 2013 89.5 63.2 71.7 46.7 3.2 274.3 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2013 0.4 18.6 2.6 2.2 23.8 Charge for the year 14 5.4 5.3 0.5 11.2 Foreign exchange losses 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2013 0.4 24.2 7.9 2.7 35.2 Net book value At 31 December 2013 89.1 63.2 47.5 38.8 0.5 239.1 At 1 January 2013 75.1 63.2 30.8 41.6 0.7 211.4 Broker and Syndicate customer Computer Other Goodwill participations relationships software intangibles Total Note m m m m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 77.0 63.2 50.3 42.6 2.5 235.6 Additions 1.9 0.4 2.3 Adjustments to prior acquisitions 0.2 0.2 Foreign exchange losses 1.3 0.9 0.3 2.5 At 31 December 2012 75.5 63.2 49.4 44.2 2.9 235.2 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2012 0.4 14.6 1.7 16.7 Charge for the year 14 4.2 2.6 0.5 7.3 Foreign exchange gains 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2012 0.4 18.6 2.6 2.2 23.8 Net book value At 31 December 2012 75.1 63.2 30.8 41.6 0.7 211.4 At 1 January 2012 76.6 63.2 35.7 42.6 0.8 218.9 Syndicate participations represent the ongoing rights to trade on Syndicate 2001 within the Lloyds insurance market.
Goodwill and the intangible asset in relation to syndicate participations are considered to have an indefinite life.
As such, they are tested for impairment annually.
All other intangible assets are tested for impairment only if an indication exists that the asset may be impaired at the reporting date.
Broker and customer relationship intangibles include those acquired in relation to AUA Insolvency Risk Services Limited, Amlin Europe N. V. and RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. the net book value being 9.0 million 2012: 10.0 million, 18.2 million 2012: 19.4 million and 20.3 million 2012: nil respectively.
These intangibles are being amortised over a period of 13, 15 and 15 years respectively, and their remaining amortisation life is 10, 11 and 14 years respectively.
The broker and customer relationship intangible asset in relation to Amlin France Holdings SAS became fully amortised during the period 2012 net book value: 1.4 million.
Computer software represents the costs that the Group has incurred on internally developed software and predominantly relates to a new platform for Amlin Europe N. V. This IT platform is being amortised over 10 years.
For the purpose of impairment testing, intangible assets are allocated to the Groups cash generating units CGUs, identified according to the way in which management operates and monitors the business.
The intangible asset relating to the syndicate participations supports the underwriting in Amlin London and Amlin UK.
182 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 182 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The analysis of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets by CGU is shown below: 2013 2012 Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin Amlin 1 2 London UK Europe Total London UK Europe Total m m m m m m m m Goodwill 18.8 4.8 65.5 89.1 18.8 4.8 51.5 75.1 Syndicate participations 55.2 8.0 63.2 53.6 9.6 63.2 74.0 12.8 65.5 152.3 72.4 14.4 51.5 138.3 Note: 1.
The Amlin London goodwill balance comprises the goodwill from three CGUs.
The largest individual balance is the goodwill from the acquisition of Lead Yacht Underwriters Limited totalling 11.5 million 2012: 11.5 million.
The Amlin Europe goodwill balance comprises the goodwill from two CGUs.
The largest individual balance is the goodwill from the acquisition of Amlin Europe N. V. totalling 28.5 million 2012: 28.0 million.
When testing for impairment, the recoverable amount of a CGU is determined based on value in use calculations.
Value in use is calculated for each CGU using a discounted cash flow projection based on business plans and growth assumptions approved by management and discounted at an appropriate discount rate.
Key assumptions used in the calculation are as follows:  Cash flow projections are based on the budgeted profit before tax for each CGU contained within the most recent business plans approved by management, adjusted for non-cash items such as depreciation.
As such, these forecasts reflect the best estimate of future cash flows based on historical trends and expected growth rates.
The period covered by the projections is five years.
The most significant assumptions used to derive the operating profit include an assessment of the market cycle, retention rates, claims inflation, outwards reinsurance expenditure and long-term investment return:  In order to extrapolate future cash flows beyond the business plan period, a long-term average growth rate of 2.5% 2012: 2.5% has been assumed for all CGUs, based on historical growth rates and managements estimates of future growth: and  A risk adjusted pre-tax discount rate of 8.5% 2012: 8.5%, has been applied to each CGUs cash flow projection, which reflects a combination of factors including the Groups expected cost of equity and cost of borrowing.
In each case, the results of this exercise indicate that the recoverable amount exceeds the intangible assets carrying value and would not be sensitive to reasonable possible changes in assumptions.
Share capital 2013 2013 2012 2012 Number m Number m Allotted, called up and fully paid ordinary shares At 1 January issued ordinary shares of 28.125p each 502,076,006 141.2 502,076,006 141.2 Ordinary shares of 28.125 pence each issued in the period 2,723,353 0.8 At 31 December issued ordinary shares of 28.125p each 504,799,359 142.0 502,076,006 141.2 The Company transferred 716,586 shares out of treasury during the year at a cost of 1.8 million 2012: 418,721 shares at a cost of 1.1 million.
The shares have been transferred to meet exercises of employee share options, leaving 4,252,085 shares in treasury at 31 December 2013 2012: 4,968,671 shares.
This number does not include shares held by the trustee of the Groups Employee Share Ownership Trust as disclosed in note 28.
The Group issued 2,723,353 ordinary shares on 1 March 2013 in conjunction with the purchase of RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. The shares issued have the same rights as all other shares in issue.
The fair value of the shares issued amounted to 11.6 million 4.24 per share.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 183 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 183 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 25.
Earnings and net assets per share Basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows: Restated 2013 2012 Profit attributable to owners of the Parent Company 298.7m 247.8m Weighted average number of shares in issue 498.1m 494.8m Dilutive shares 7.1m 6.0m Adjusted average number of shares in issue 505.2m 500.8m Basic earnings per share 60.0p 50.1p Diluted earnings per share 59.1p 49.5p Net assets and tangible net assets per share are as follows: Restated Note 2013 2012 Net assets 1,678.6m 1,497.7m Adjustments for goodwill and intangible assets 23 239.1m 211.4m Tangible net assets 1,439.5m 1,286.3m Number of shares in issue at end of the year 504.8m 502.1m Adjustment for ESOT and treasury shares 6.2m 7.0m Basic number of shares after ESOT and treasury shares adjustment 498.6m 495.1m Basic net assets per share 336.7p 302.5p Basic tangible net assets per share 288.7p 259.8p 26.
Other reserves All items of other comprehensive income in 2013 and 2012 are charged to Other reserves.
Other reserves are as follows: Restated 2013 2012 m m Capital redemption reserve 123.1 123.1 Defined benefit pension reserve 40.1 48.9 Foreign operations translation reserve 9.6 6.9 Employee share option reserve 9.3 9.8 Hedge accounting reserve 43.0 43.5 Merger reserve 87.7 87.7 Other 44.5 44.7 Tax relating to components of other reserves 29.5 31.2 112.4 121.6 The Other in the above table includes goodwill on pre-1999 acquisitions written off of 45.7 million 2012: 45.7 million.
Dividends The amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders are as follows: 2013 2012 Group m m Final dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2012 of 16.5 pence per ordinary share 82.4 31 December 2011 of 15.8 pence per ordinary share 78.2 31 December 2011 of Amlin Plus Limited to non-controlling interests 0.1 Interim dividend for the year ended: 31 December 2013 of 7.8 pence per ordinary share 38.9 31 December 2012 of Amlin Plus Limited to non-controlling interests 0.1 31 December 2012 of 7.5 pence per ordinary share 37.1 121.4 115.4 The final ordinary dividend of 18.2 pence per ordinary share for 2013, amounting to 90.7 million, payable in cash, was agreed by the Board on 28 February 2014, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 22 May 2014, and has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2013.
184 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 184 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28.
Long-term employee incentive schemes During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group operated a number of long-term employee incentive schemes.
The total cost recognised in the consolidated statement of profit or loss for these schemes is shown below: 2013 2012 Note m m Equity settled schemes 12 5.1 4.4 Capital Builder Plan 2.6 3.1 Total expense arising from long-term employee incentive schemes 7.7 7.5 a Equity settled share-based payment schemes i Share options Details of the Groups executive and all employee share option schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
A summary of the status and the changes to new or treasury shares under option during the year were as follows: Weighted average Weighted average Number of exercise price Number exercise price per shares per share of shares share 2013 pence 2012 pence Outstanding at 1 January 2,676,348 266 2,672,806 258 Granted during the year 506,531 312 431,700 311 Exercised during the year 490,876 247 320,733 263 Forfeited during the year 117,069 289 107,425 270 Total shares outstanding at 31 December 2,574,934 277 2,676,348 266 Total shares exercisable at 31 December 610,953 267 828,189 251 The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 430 pence 2012: 363 pence.
The following table summarises information about options outstanding at the end of the year: Weighted average Number Weighted average Number of remaining of outstanding remaining outstanding shares contractual life shares under contractual life Range of exercise prices under option 2013 years option 2012 years 0.76 1.11 10,647 0.33 1.12 1.62 120,500 1.23 248,753 1.85 1.63 2.46 23,145 0.42 165,146 1.42 2.47 2.93 1,423,031 2.28 1,579,962 3.28 2.94 3.34 1,008,258 3.51 671,840 3.48 ii Share awards Details of the Groups share awards are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report in the Governance section.
At 31 December 2013, the total awards over new or treasury shares outstanding, or committed to be met by the Groups Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT, or shares held in trust under these schemes are summarised below: Number of Number shares under of shares under conditional Vesting conditional Vesting award 2013 period award 2012 period LTIP grants 5,121,807 2014 to 2016 4,857,704 2011 to 2015 PSP grants 2,736,126 2013 to 2018 3,183,555 2011 to 2017 SIP grants 1,630,581 2010 to 2016 1,545,266 2010 to 2014 Amlin Special 271,248 2014 to 2016 209,961 2013 to 2015 LTIP and PSP awards are normally exercisable from three and five years after grant respectively.
iii Modifications to share-based payment arrangements There have been no modifications to share-based payment arrangements in 2013. iv Options from the ESOT The trustee of the ESOT held 1,962,534 ordinary shares as at 31 December 2013 2012: 2,023,644 ordinary shares to meet potential future exercises of executive awards and long-term incentive plans.
The ESOT shares are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The market value of Amlin plc ordinary shares on the last trading day of the year, being 31 December 2013, was 458.9 pence per share 2012: 379.0 pence per share.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 185 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 185 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 28.
Long-term employee incentive schemes continued The assets, liabilities, income and costs of the ESOT are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements.
The ESOT waives the right to dividends on ordinary shares in excess of 0.01 pence per each share ranking for an interim or final dividend.
v Fair value of options and awards At 31 December 2013, the weighted average fair values of options and awards granted during the year were 60.57 pence per option and 157.51 pence per award respectively 2012: 58.14 pence and 131.94 pence.
The Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used to determine the fair value of the option grants and share awards listed above.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: 2013 2012 Weighted average share price on grant pence 377.10 361.83 Weighted average exercise price pence 282.61 281.79 Expected volatility 30.00% 30.00% Expected life years 3.00 5.25 3.00 5.25 Risk free rate of return 1.00% 4.50% 1.00% 5.00% Expected dividend yield 5.00% 7.00% 4.50% 7.00% Volatility The volatility of Amlin plcs share price is calculated as a normalised standard deviation of the log of the daily return on the share price.
In estimating 30% volatility, the volatility of return for six months, one year and three year intervals are considered.
As a guide to the reasonableness of the volatility estimate, similar calculations are performed on a selection of Amlins peer group.
Interest rate The risk free interest rate is consistent with government bond yields.
Dividend yield The assumptions are consistent with the information given in the financial statements for each relevant valuation year.
Staff turnover The option pricing calculations are split by staffing grades as staff turnover is higher for more junior grades.
Furthermore, historical evidence suggests that senior employees tend to hold their options for longer whereas more junior levels within the organisation appear to exercise earlier.
In addition, senior employees hold a larger proportion of the options but represent a smaller group of individuals.
Market conditions The Group issues options that include targets for the Groups performance against a number of market and non-market conditions.
Failure to meet these targets can reduce the number of options exercisable.
In some circumstances, no options may be exercised.
Assumptions are made about the likelihood of meeting the market and non-market conditions based on the outlook at the time of each option grant.
b Capital Builder Plan The Group rewards senior underwriters through payments under the Capital Builder Plan the Plan if they achieve performance below the target loss ratio for their class es of business or business area over the five-year period of each award under the Plan.
Under the scheme rules, the Group has the option to settle the awarded bonus in the shares of the Company or as a cash payment.
Provision for payments of an award under the Plan is calculated every year where actual profits exceed the target profit on a cumulative basis over the performance period to date under the Plan.
The rate of accrual for each five-year performance period is determined at the start of the period, reflecting the share of the excess return payable and committed under the terms of the Plan.
Under this approach, the services received and the related liability are recognised as the services are rendered, in that the liability at any point in time for the Plan reflects the level of actual performance by underwriters in relation to the target.
The carrying amount of the liability under the Plan at 31 December 2013 is 4.8 million 2012: 4.1 million and is recorded in other payables.
186 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 186 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29.
Restricted funds held placed by the Group At 31 December 2013, the Group holds restricted funds in the form of trust fund investments, letter of credit LOC collaterals, initial margin calls on derivative financial instruments and collateral received from reinsurance counterparties.
Trust funds Syndicate 2001 holds gross assets of 3,100.5 million 2012: 3,086.9 million, matched by gross liabilities of 2,557.0 million 2012: 2,656.0 million, which are held within individual trust funds.
The Group cannot obtain or use these assets until such time as each Syndicate underwriting year is closed and profits are distributed, or an advance profit release is made.
Furthermore, 15.4 million 2012: 16.0 million of Amlin Singapore Pte Limiteds and Amlin Labuan Limiteds assets are held within trust funds and restricted from use within the working capital of the Group until settlement has been made to Syndicate 2001.
LOC facilities At 31 December 2013, 173.1 million 2012: 176.5 million of Amlin Bermudas assets are restricted for use by the Group.
These assets are collateral for the LOC facility drawn at the end of the year.
Details are included in note 31.
At 31 December 2013, Syndicate 2001 recognised 0.7 million 2012: 0.8 million of cash drawn down from LOC facilities as a liability on the consolidated statement of financial position.
This has been received from reinsurance counterparties as a guarantee for business written and is included within total funds held by Syndicate 2001.
Derivative margins and collateral Derivative instruments traded across the Group give rise to collateral being placed with, or received from, external counterparties.
At 31 December 2013, included in other receivables and other payables are 4.7 million 2012: 5.8 million margins and collaterals pledged and 16.4 million 2012: 2.0 million margins and collaterals held respectively in relation to listed futures margins and over-the-counter options.
Collaterals received under reverse repurchase agreements Collateral assets received under reverse repurchase agreements amounted to 26.6 million 2012: nil.
These collateral assets have been included in other receivables in note 20.
Reinsurance collateral received Collateral of 259.8 million 2012: 241.8 million is held in third party trust funds to guarantee Syndicate 2001 against reinsurance counterparties.
Furthermore, collateral of 137.6 million 2012: 184.5 million and 38.6 million 2012: 32.8 million is held in third party trust funds as a guarantee against reinsurance counterparties to Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Re Europe respectively.
Collateral held in third party trust funds is not recognised as assets pertaining to the Group but is available for immediate drawdown in the event of a default.
At 31 December 2013, 3.5 million 2012: 25.6 million of the funds placed in trust by counterparties of Amlin Bermuda related to specific reinsurance assets.
Insurance collateral placed Syndicate 2001 holds 374.6 million 2012: 342.9 million of collateral in a US trust fund to meet US regulatory requirements.
The Group cannot obtain or use these funds for any other purpose and they are recognised as an asset to the Group.
Amlin Europe N. V. has 20.9 million 2012: 22.1 million of bank guarantees in place to cover insurance counterparties.
Funds withheld as premium claim deposits At 31 December 2013, the Group had net funds of 46.3 million 2012: 29.1 million placed as claim deposits and net nil 2012: 3.7 million premium deposits placed with receivable from external brokers.
Amlin Re Europe and Amlin Bermuda have placed a further 16.3 million 2012: 4.4 million and 2.1 million 2012: nil respectively into pledge accounts to collateralise against losses due to reinsurance cedants.
Funds in escrow At 31 December 2013, the Group holds 14.1 million 2012: 10.0 million of funds in an escrow account to meet any potential funding requirements of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund.
Further details are provided in note 3.4.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 187 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 187 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 30.
Other payables, including insurance and reinsurance payables 2013 2012 m m Insurance and reinsurance payables 273.3 275.0 Trade payables 36.2 39.3 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 92.7 71.6 Social security and other tax payables 8.6 7.7 Other payables 137.5 118.6 410.8 393.6 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2013 2012 m m Current portion 338.2 307.6 Non-current portion 72.6 86.0 410.8 393.6 The carrying amounts disclosed above are reasonably approximate to the fair value at the reporting date.
Insurance payables are comprised principally of premium payable for reinsurance, including reinstatement premium.
188 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 188 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31.
Borrowings 2013 2012 m m Subordinated debt 289.5 290.4 Revolving credit facility 101.4 120.0 Other 0.7 391.6 410.4 The current and non-current portions are expected to be as follows: 2013 2012 m m Current portion 101.6 Non-current portion 290.0 410.4 391.6 410.4 Details of the Groups three subordinated debts issued by Amlin plc are as follows: Interest rate to Interest rate from reset date reset date to maturity date Issue date Principal amount Reset date Maturity date % % 23 November 2004 US$50m November 2014 November 2019 7.11 LIBOR 3.48 15 March 2005 US$50m March 2015 March 2020 7.28 LIBOR 3.32 25 April 2006 230m December 2016 December 2026 6.50 LIBOR 2.66 The subordinated debt will be redeemed on the maturity dates at the principal amounts, together with any outstanding accrued interest.
The Group has the option to redeem the bonds in whole, subject to certain requirements, on the reset dates or any interest payment date thereafter at the principal amount plus any outstanding accrued interest.
The Directors estimation of the fair value of the Groups subordinated debt is 326.0 million 2012: 352.0 million and 98.3 million 2012: 122.0 million for the revolving credit facility.
The aggregate fair values are based on a discounted cash flow model.
This model uses a current yield curve appropriate for the remaining terms to maturity.
The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have a debt facility with its banks which is available until August 2017 and provides an unsecured 300.0 million multicurrency revolving credit facility available by way of cash advances and a secured US$200.0 million letter of credit LOC.
The facility is guaranteed by the Companys subsidiaries Amlin Corporate Services Limited and Amlin Overseas Holdings Limited.
The secured LOC is secured by a fixed charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Insight Investment Management Global Limited with State Street Bank and Trust Company as custodian.
As at 31 December 2013, the revolving credit facility was drawn down by 101.4 million 2012: 120.0 million.
Amlin AG has a LOC facility with Lloyds Bank plc and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc as lead arrangers of US$280.0 million 2012: US$280.0 million.
The facility is secured by a registered charge over a portfolio of assets managed by Aberdeen Asset Management Inc with State Street Bank and Trust Company as custodian.
Three further LOCs are arranged Barclays Bank plc: US$nil million 2012: US$20.0 million and NZ$30.0 million 2012: NZ$30.0 million and Lloyds Bank plc: NZ$11.5 million 2012: NZ$28.5 million and AU$16.2 million 2012: AU$nil : and are secured by time deposits.
As at 31 December 2013, US$268.0 million of LOC were issued 2012: US$244.4 million.
The total value of restricted assets as at 31 December 2013 was US$286.8 million 2012: US$286.8 million.
Amlin Europe N. V. has a credit facility with Fortis Bank Nederland N. V. as arranger.
The facility provides a daily revocable overdraft of up to 5.0 million, a guarantee facility to a third party of up to 10.0 million and a guarantee standby LOC for up to 22.5 million.
At 31 December 2013, 25.1 million of guarantees were issued 2012: 27.3 million : 4.3 million 2012: 4.3 million from the guarantee facility and 20.8 million 2012: 23.0 million from the guarantee standby LOC.
There are no restricted assets to secure the facility.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 189 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 189 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 32.
Retirement benefit obligations a Adoption of IAS 19 revised Employee benefits As stated in note 1, the Group has adopted the accounting and disclosure requirements of IAS 19 revised.
In accordance with this standard, the change in accounting policy was applied retrospectively and the comparative financial information has been restated accordingly.
The amount of the restatement for each financial statement line item affected by the retrospective application of IAS 19 revised for the year ended 31 December 2012 is provided below: As reported Restated 12 months 12 months 2012 IAS 19 2012 Consolidated statement of profit or loss m revised m Profit before tax 264.2 264.2 Tax 16.5 0.1 16.4 Profit for the year 247.7 0.1 247.8 Attributable to: Owners of the Parent Company 247.7 0.1 247.8 Earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to owners of the Parent Company Basic 50.0p 0.1p 50.1p Diluted 49.4p 0.1p 49.5p As reported Restated 12 months 12 months 2012 IAS 19 2012 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income m revised m Profit for the year 247.7 0.1 247.8 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Defined benefit pension fund losses 17.5 8.0 9.5 Income tax relating to items not reclassified 3.4 1.8 1.6 14.1 6.2 7.9 Other comprehensive expense for the year, net of tax 66.7 6.2 60.5 Total comprehensive income for the year 181.0 6.3 187.3 Attributable to: Owners of the Parent Company 181.0 6.3 187.3 As reported Restated 31 December 31 December 2012 IAS 19 2012 Consolidated statement of financial position m revised m Deferred tax assets 17.5 1.7 15.8 Total assets 6,516.6 1.7 6,514.9 Other reserves 112.9 8.7 121.6 Retained earnings 957.1 2.4 954.7 Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company 1,490.8 6.3 1,497.1 Total equity and reserves 1,491.4 6.3 1,497.7 Retirement benefit obligations 48.9 8.0 40.9 Total liabilities 5,025.2 8.0 5,017.2 Total equity, reserves and liabilities 6,516.6 1.7 6,514.9 Consequential amendments have also been made to the notes to the financial statements.
The impact of retrospective application on each component of equity is shown in the consolidated statement of changes in equity, as required by IAS 1.
190 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 190 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Opening statement of financial position as at 1 January 2012 The Group has not presented a statement of financial position for the beginning of the earliest comparative period as the impact is not material.
b Defined benefit schemes The Group participates in a number of defined benefit schemes, details of which are provided in note 3.4.
Amount recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position in respect of the Groups defined benefit schemes is as follows: Restated 2013 2012 m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 470.3 454.4 Fair value of scheme assets 468.1 436.6 Deficit in schemes 2.2 17.8 Restriction to defined benefit asset due to asset ceiling 30.4 23.1 Net defined benefit liability 32.6 40.9 The movement in the net defined benefit liability is as follows: Present value of Fair value of Deficit in Effect of asset Net defined obligation scheme assets schemes ceiling benefit liability m m m m m At 1 January 2013 restated 454.4 436.6 17.8 23.1 40.9 Interest expense income 18.4 18.2 0.2 1.0 1.2 Current service cost 6.0 6.0 6.0 Past service cost 1.6 1.6 1.6 Administration expenses 1.6 1.6 1.6 Charged credited to consolidated statement of profit or loss 22.8 16.6 6.2 1.0 7.2 Re-measurements: Actuarial gains and losses arising from : changes in demographic assumptions 0.9 0.9 0.9 changes in financial assumptions 4.6 2.4 7.0 7.0 other actuarial gains 2.9 19.0 16.1 16.1 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense income 5.7 5.7 5.7 Changes in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense income 6.3 6.3 Charged credited to consolidated statement of other comprehensive income 6.6 22.3 15.7 6.3 9.4 Exchange differences 2.2 1.2 1.0 1.0 Participant contributions 1.2 1.2 Benefits paid 16.9 16.9 Employer contributions 7.1 7.1 7.1 At 31 December 2013 470.3 468.1 2.2 30.4 32.6 A plan amendment has resulted in a reduction in past service costs of 1.6 million 2012: nil due to the increase in the retirement age in the Netherlands effective from 1 January 2014.
Other actuarial gains relate to the impact of the exit of the remaining other employer from the Lloyds Superannuation Fund in the UK.
Further details on this transaction are provided in note 3.4.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 191 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 191 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Deficit in Net defined Present value of Fair value of Effect of asset obligation scheme assets Schemes ceiling benefit liability Restated m m m m m At 1 January 2012 417.9 421.3 3.4 34.2 30.8 Interest expense income 18.9 19.5 0.6 1.6 1.0 Current service cost 4.1 4.1 4.1 Administration expenses 1.3 1.3 1.3 Charged credited to consolidated statement of profit or loss 23.0 18.2 4.8 1.6 6.4 Re-measurements: Actuarial gains and losses arising from : changes in demographic assumptions 5.6 5.6 5.6 changes in financial assumptions 35.4 9.2 26.2 26.2 Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense income 1.6 1.6 1.6 Changes in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense income 12.7 12.7 Charged credited to consolidated statement of other comprehensive income 29.8 7.6 22.2 12.7 9.5 Exchange differences 1.6 1.1 0.5 0.5 Participant contributions 1.1 1.1 Benefits paid 15.8 15.8 Employer contributions 5.3 5.3 5.3 At 31 December 2012 454.4 436.6 17.8 23.1 40.9 Restriction to defined benefit asset due to asset ceiling On 30 June 2011, the Group agreed a schedule of contributions with the Trustee of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund.
The Funds rules do not allow the Group to receive a refund of contributions in any circumstances.
Therefore, the present value of the future payments has been recognised as a liability at 31 December 2013, to the extent that the contributions will not be available after they are paid into the Fund.
A restriction to the defined benefit asset has therefore been recognised.
c The stakeholder defined contribution schemes The defined contribution schemes operated by the Group are stakeholder arrangements.
The total contributions to the schemes for the year ended 31 December 2013 are 7.8 million 2012: 6.6 million.
d Other arrangements In addition to the defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes, the Group has an occupational money purchase scheme which provides death in service protection for all employees.
Regular contributions, expressed as a percentage of employees earnings, are paid into this scheme and are allocated to accounts in the names of the individual members, which are independent of the Groups finances.
There were no outstanding contributions at 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
192 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 192 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33.
Principal exchange rates The principal exchange rates used in translating foreign currency assets, liabilities, income and expenditure in the production of these financial statements were: Average rate Year end rate 2013 2012 2013 2012 US dollar 1.56 1.59 1.66 1.62 Canadian dollar 1.61 1.58 1.76 1.61 Euro 1.18 1.23 1.20 1.23 New Zealand dollar 1.91 1.96 2.01 1.97 Japanese yen 152.80 126.55 174.36 140.78 34.
Contingent liabilities Aside from the escrow account entered into with the Trustee of the Lloyds Superannuation Fund defined benefit pension scheme, as described in note 3.4, and the contingent consideration relating to the acquisition of RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. and subsidiaries, as described in note 4, the Group has no material contingent liabilities at 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
Commitments a Capital commitments In addition to the commitments made to RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. and to Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP as described in note 4, the Group also made commitments to subscribe to property funds at 31 December 2013 of 41.5 million 2012: 19.2 million and has made a contractual commitment for the construction of the Amlin UK head office Victoria Road, Chelmsford at 31 December 2013 of 13.5 million.
b Operating lease commitments The Group leases various offices under operating lease agreements.
The Group is required to give notice for the termination of these agreements.
The lease expenditure charged to the consolidated statement of profit or loss during the year is 9.6 million 2012: 9.7 million, as disclosed in note 14.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under the non-cancellable portion of the Groups operating leases are as follows: 2013 2012 m m No later than 1 year 9.5 8.2 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 26.6 25.2 1 Later than 5 years 103.4 2.3 139.5 35.7 Note: 1.
As disclosed in the interim 2013 Financial Statements, the Group has signed an agreement to lease 95,000 square feet at The Leadenhall Building currently under construction at 122 Leadenhall Street, London EC3.
The date of commencement of the lease is currently expected to be mid-2014.
c Other commitments RaetsMarine Insurance B. V. RMI, which was acquired by Amlin in 2013, remains a guarantor for the liabilities of certain formerly related companies under a credit facility issued by the F. van Lanschot Bank.
Amlin has demanded that the seller procure the release of RMI from this obligation as required under the terms of the RMI Share Purchase Agreement, but the seller has not yet complied.
RMIs potential financial exposure under this cross-guarantee agreement can vary but should not exceed 6.0 million.
Amlin has withheld US$7.5 million due to the sellers pending resolution of this issue.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 193 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 193 Notes to the accounts continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 36.
Cash flows from operations 2013 2012 Note m m Profit before tax 325.7 264.2 Adjustments: Depreciation charge 14 7.4 6.2 Amortisation charge 14 11.2 7.3 Finance costs 13 29.0 27.6 Interest income 7 30.4 36.7 Dividend income 7 16.3 11.3 Gains on investments realised and unrealised 7 96.5 101.4 Other non-cash movements 1.5 4.5 Movement in operating assets and liabilities: Net purchases sales of financial investments 18 92.1 234.1 Foreign exchange losses on investments 18 28.9 109.6 Increase in loans and receivables 0.4 45.3 Decrease in insurance and reinsurance contract assets 120.7 72.2 Decrease in insurance contract liabilities 152.9 77.1 Decrease in other payables 2.9 8.8 Increase in retirement benefit obligations 1.1 0.6 Foreign exchange gains on long-term borrowings 0.3 1.9 Foreign exchange gains on other non-operating assets and liabilities 5.8 49.8 Cash generated from utilised in operations 127.9 74.2 The Group includes cash flows from purchase and disposal of financial assets in its operating cash flows as these transactions are generated by the cash flows associated with the origination and settlement of insurance contract liabilities or capital requirements to support underwriting.
Cash of 92.1 million from net purchases sales of financial investments was utilised in operations during the year 2012: 234.1 million from net purchases.
Related party transactions a Transactions and balances with related parties i Amlin Plus Amlin Underwriting Limited and Lycetts Holdings Limited, the owners of Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited and Lycetts Hamilton Limited, own 60% and 40% respectively of the share capital of Amlin Plus Limited Amlin Plus.
The business of Amlin Plus bloodstock insurance is written under a binding authority agreement with Syndicate 2001, some of which is sourced through a single broker, Lycett, BrowneSwinburne and Douglas Limited.
Syndicate 2001 is managed by Amlin Underwriting Limited.
The capacity on Syndicate 2001 is underwritten by a fellow subsidiary in the Amlin Group.
All transactions between Amlin Plus and its related parties are conducted on an arms length basis.
During the year Amlin Plus wrote 11.5 million 2012: 13.8 million of premium under the binding authority agreement, of which 3.7 million 2012: 5.6 million was produced by Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited earning brokerage commission of 0.5 million 2012: 0.8 million on this business.
At 31 December 2013, Syndicate 2001 had a receivable of 1.9 million 2012: 2.4 million from Amlin Plus and Lycett, Browne-Swinburne and Douglas Limited had a payable of 0.5 million 2012: 0.9 million to Amlin Plus.
ii Associates The Group enters into transactions with its associates in the normal course of business.
The sales to, and purchases from, associates are made at normal market prices.
Details of the Groups associates are given in note 4. iii Syndicate 6106 For the 2013 underwriting year of account Special Purpose Syndicate S6106, managed by Amlin Underwriting Limited, wrote a 10.0% 2012: 10.0% quota share contract of the excess of loss reinsurance account of Syndicate 2001.
The transactions provide external members capital to support 2013 underwriting, enabling Syndicate 2001 to take advantage of opportunities in peak zones in the US, Japan and Europe.
All transactions with S6106 are undertaken on an arms length basis.
The quota share contract has not been renewed for the 2014 underwriting year of account.
194 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 194 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS iv Transactions with Funds managed by Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP At 31 December 2013, funds managed by Leadenhall Capital Partners LLP held US$5.0 million and US$1.8 million in the catastrophe bonds issued by Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd respectively.
Details of the Groups transaction with Tramline Re Ltd and Tramline Re II Ltd can be found in Note 3.
Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Re Europe participate in fronting arrangements whereby they write inwards reinsurance contracts which are 100% reinsured by Horseshoe Re Limited on behalf of its segregated accounts.
Funds managed by Leadenhall Capital Partners, an associate of the Group, has invested within these segregated accounts.
During the year Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Re Europe wrote 15.1 million of gross premium and received 0.6 million of commission through this arrangement.
At 31 December 2013, 5.5 million was receivable from Horseshoe Re, of which 0.2 million was reinsurance receivables on paid and outstanding claims, 6.0 million was reinsurers share of insurance liabilities and 0.7 million was reinsurance payables.
b Compensation of key management personnel Key management personnel are those Amlin plc Board Directors and Group Management Committee members responsible for planning and control of the activities of the Group.
Key management comprises twelve Executive Directors and employees and seven Non-Executive Directors 2012: twelve and six respectively.
During the year, Mr Buchanan ceased in his role as Non-Executive Director.
Compensation during the year to key management personnel is analysed below: 2013 2012 m m Short-term employee benefits 8.9 8.5 Long-term employee benefits 4.1 1.9 Post-employment benefits 0.5 0.4 Equity-settled share-based payments 1.5 1.2 Cash-settled share-based payments 0.4 0.4 15.4 12.4 c Transactions with Directors Certain Directors of the Company are also directors of other companies, as described in the Directors biographical details on page 64 of the Annual Report.
Such other companies and or their subsidiaries may, and in some cases do, conduct business with companies in the Amlin Group, including Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited of which Ms Chakraverty is a Non-Executive Director.
In all cases transactions between the Amlin Group and such other companies are carried out on normal arms length commercial terms.
d Internal reinsurance arrangements During the current and prior year, there were a number of reinsurance arrangements entered into in the normal course of trade between various Group companies, i. e. the reinsurance contracts between Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda, Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Europe, Amlin Re Europe and Amlin Europe and between Amlin Bermuda and Amlin Europe.
The related results of these transactions have been eliminated on consolidation.
Events after the reporting period No significant events have been identified between the date of the consolidated statement of financial position and the date on which the financial statements were authorised.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 195 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 195 Independent auditors report To the members of Amlin plc Report on the Parent Company financial statements Our opinion In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements:  give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its cash flows for the year then ended:  have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This opinion is to be read in the context of what we say below in the remainder of this report.
What we have audited The Parent Company financial statements, which are prepared by Amlin plc, comprise:  the Parent Company statement of financial position as at 31 December 2013:  the Parent Company statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and  the notes to the Parent Company financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation comprises applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In applying the financial reporting framework, the Directors have made a number of subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates.
In making such estimates, they have made assumptions and considered future events.
Certain disclosures required by the financial reporting framework have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
What an audit of financial statements involves We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of:  whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed:  the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and  the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Parent Company financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinions on matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion:  The information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
 The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or  adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or  the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law have not been made.
196 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 196 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other information in the Annual Report Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report is:  materially inconsistent with the information in the audited Parent Company financial statements: or  apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Parent Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or  is otherwise misleading.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 108, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Andrew Kail Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 28 February 2014 Amlin plc Annual Report 2013 197 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 197
