Statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors Directors statement pursuant to the responsibilities Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Directors are responsible for preparing Each of the Directors, whose names and the Annual Report and the financial functions are listed in the section of the statements in accordance with applicable Annual Report entitled Board of Directors law and regulations.
confirms that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each The financial statements, prepared in financial year.
Under that law the Directors accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the have prepared the Group and parent EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, company financial statements in accordance liabilities, financial position and profit of the with International Financial Reporting Group and Company: and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the The strategic report and report contained European Union.
Under company law the in the Annual Report include a fair review Directors must not approve the financial of the development and performance of statements unless they are satisfied that they the business and the position of the give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Company and Group, together with a of the Group and the Company and of the description of the principal risks and profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In uncertainties that they face.
preparing these financial statements, the The Directors are responsible for the Directors are required to: maintenance and integrity of the Group Select suitable accounting policies and website www.
Legislation in the then apply them consistently: UK governing the preparation and Make judgements and accounting dissemination of financial statements may estimates that are reasonable and prudent: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted By Order of the Board by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the M P D Stevens Company will continue in business.
Group Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for keeping 28 February 2014 adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee on the process, all the Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
