Strategic overview Performance Strategic overview Performance Go Govern vernance ance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Company cash flow statement Notes to the financial statements As at 30 June 2013 2013 2012 1 General information Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, m m replaces the current models for classification and Ashmore Group plc the Company is a public limited company Operating activities measurement of financial instruments.
Financial assets are listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and to be classified into two measurement categories: fair value Cash receipts from customers and other Group companies 79.7 66.8 domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial and amortised cost.
Classification will depend on an entitys statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together the Cash paid to suppliers and employees and other Group companies 47.6 54.8 business model and the characteristics of contractual cash Group for the year ended 30 June 2013 were authorised for Net cash from operating activities 32.1 12.0 flow of the financial instrument.
The standard is effective for issue by the Board of Directors on 9 September 2013.
The annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2015. principal activity of the Group is described in the Directors Investing activities report on page 50.
The Group will continue to measure all equity investments Interest received 0.8 1.2 at fair value with an irrevocable option to recognise through 2 Basis of preparation equity fair value, gains and losses on equity investments Loans to subsidiaries 34.6 85.5 The Group and Company financial statements have been that are not held for trading.
However, gains and losses Dividends received from subsidiaries 196.7 194.8 prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting recognised through equity cannot be subsequently recycled Purchase of property, plant and equipment 0.7 1.3 Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU to profit or loss on impairment or disposal of the investments Net cash from investing activities 162.2 109.2 effective for the Groups reporting for the year ended 30 June as is the case for equity investments currently classified as 2013 and applied in accordance with the provisions of the available-for-sale.
Companies Act 2006. Financing activities As at the time of publication of these financial statements, The financial statements have been prepared on a going the IASB is re-deliberating the requirements for classification Dividends paid 105.2 101.0 concern basis under the historical cost convention, except for and measurement in IFRS 9 while the requirements of latter Purchase of own shares 30.8 40.8 the measurement at fair value of certain financial assets that are phases of IFRS 9 are in development and therefore remain Net cash used in financing activities 136.0 141.8 available-for-sale or classified as fair value through profit or loss.
The Group continues to monitor developments and will provide an impact assessment once the IASB has The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 58.3 20.6 completed the project subject to endorsement by the EU.
408 of the Companies Act 2006 which allows it not to present IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements revises the its individual statement of comprehensive income and Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 210.6 231.2 concept of control to relate it to whether an investor has related notes.
exercisable power over an investee and consequently has Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 2.8 The preparation of financial statements requires management exposure or rights to variable returns.
Consolidation Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 271.7 210.6 to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect procedures remain unchanged.
the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and The expected impact of IFRS 10 is that some funds managed liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated Cash and cash equivalents at end of year comprise: by the Group may have to be consolidated, resulting in a assumptions are based on historical experience and various Cash at bank and in hand 7.6 54.1 grossing up of the Groups assets and liabilities, but with other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the Daily dealing liquidity funds 264.1 156.5 minimal net impact on profit or net assets.
The Group is circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making currently assessing the full impact of the new standard.
271.7 210.6 the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities consolidates that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results The notes on pages 77 to 109 form an integral part of these financial statements.
and enhances disclosure requirements relating to interests may differ from these estimates.
Further information about key of an entity in other entities.
It includes the disclosure assumptions and other key sources of estimation and areas of requirements for all forms of interests in other entities, judgement are set out in note 32. including joint arrangements, associates, special purpose vehicles and unconsolidated structures.
3 Effects of new and amended IFRSs The new standard is likely to result in increased disclosures New standard applied regarding interests in other entities particularly in respect of The following amended IFRS has been adopted by the Group significant judgments and assumptions made in determining and the Company during the year: control and the nature of, and changes in, the risks associated Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other with such interests.
The Group is currently assessing the full Comprehensive Income impacts the Groups and Companys impact of the new standard.
statements of comprehensive income by requiring the grouping of items presented in other comprehensive income The following new standards which are relevant for the Group based on whether or not they will be reclassified to profit or are not expected to have a material impact.
Adoption of the amendment did not impact Amendment to IAS 32 Financial instruments: Presentation earnings per share.
provides additional guidance for offsetting financial assets and liabilities while amendments to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: New standards and interpretations not yet adopted Disclosures set out corresponding new disclosure The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and requirements.
The amendment is effective for annual periods International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee has beginning on or after 1 January 2013. recently issued the following new standards and amendments which are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, unless stated otherwise, and have not been applied in preparing these consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement which is the first phase of a wider project to replace IAS 39 76 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Effects of new and amended IFRSs continued Foreign currency translation The Groups financial statements are presented in Pounds IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements requires joint ventures to be Sterling Sterling, which is also the Companys functional accounted for using the equity accounting method while and presentation currency.
Items included in the financial joint operations are accounted for based on the rights and statements of each of the Groups entities are measured obligations of each party in the arrangement.
using the currency of the primary economic environment in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement aims to improve consistency which the entity operates: the functional currency.
Transactions and reduce complexity by providing guidance on how to in foreign currencies are translated by the Groups entities at measure fair value where fair value is required or permitted the foreign exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
across IFRSs and enhances disclosures requirements effective for annual periods beginning on or after Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign 1 January 2013. currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the prevailing exchange rate.
Foreign exchange differences 4 Significant accounting policies arising on translation are recognised in the statement of The following principal accounting policies have been applied comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities consistently where applicable to all years presented in dealing that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign with items which are considered material in relation to the Group currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date and Company financial statements, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including These financial statements consolidate the financial statements goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those are translated into Sterling at the foreign exchange rates entities, including investment funds, over which the Company ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at rates and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
arising on translation are recognised directly in other The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the comprehensive income.
consolidated financial statements from the date that control Business combinations is transferred to the Group until the date that control ceases.
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or method acquisition accounting.
The cost of a business income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are combination is the aggregate of the fair values, at the date eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included equity instruments issued by the acquirer and the amount in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from of non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The fair value of the effective date of acquisition.
a business combination is calculated at the acquisition date Based on their nature, the interests of third-parties in funds that by recognising the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and are consolidated consolidated funds are classified as liabilities contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, at their and appear as Third-party interests in consolidated funds in fair values at that date.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed the Groups balance sheet.
The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
The Group has an Employee Benefit Trust EBT that acts as an agent for the purpose of the employee share-based Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the compensation plans.
Accordingly, the EBT is included within acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition the Group and Company financial statements.
Subsequently, changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be a liability will be recognised Associates and joint ventures in accordance with IAS 39 in profit or loss.
If the contingent Associates are partly owned entities over which the Group has consideration is classified as equity, it will not be re-measured.
significant influence but no control.
Joint ventures are entities through which the Group and other parties undertake an Goodwill economic activity which is subject to joint control.
The cost of a business combination in excess of the fair value of net identifiable assets or liabilities acquired, including intangible Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are assets identified, is recognised as goodwill and stated at cost less recognised using the equity method of accounting.
Under this any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill has an indefinite method, the investments are initially recognised at cost, useful life, is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for for impairment or when there is an indication of impairment.
the post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised Intangible assets in the statement of comprehensive income.
The cost of intangible assets, such as management contracts and brand names, acquired as part of a business combination Where the Groups financial year is not coterminous with those are their fair value as at the date of acquisition.
The fair value of its associates or joint ventures, unaudited interim financial at the date of acquisition is calculated using the discounted cash information is used after appropriate adjustments have been made.
78 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 78 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Effects of new and amended IFRSs continued Foreign currency translation flow methodology and represents the valuation of the net investments.
If a seed capital investment remains under The Groups financial statements are presented in Pounds residual revenue stream arising from the management contracts control of the Group for more than one year from the original IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements requires joint ventures to be Sterling Sterling, which is also the Companys functional and brand name in place at the date of acquisition.
investment date, the underlying fund is consolidated line by line.
accounted for using the equity accounting method while and presentation currency.
Items included in the financial joint operations are accounted for based on the rights and Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at Investment securities statements of each of the Groups entities are measured obligations of each party in the arrangement.
cost less any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Investment securities represent listed securities, other than using the currency of the primary economic environment in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement aims to improve consistency Intangible assets are amortised, if appropriate, over their useful derivatives, held by consolidated funds.
These securities are which the entity operates: the functional currency.
Transactions and reduce complexity by providing guidance on how to lives which have been assessed as being between 31 months held at fair value with gains and losses recognised through in foreign currencies are translated by the Groups entities at measure fair value where fair value is required or permitted and 10 years.
the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
the foreign exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
across IFRSs and enhances disclosures requirements Property, plant and equipment Non-current financial assets held-for-sale effective for annual periods beginning on or after Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less Non-current financial assets held-for-sale are measured at the 1 January 2013. currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell prevailing exchange rate.
Foreign exchange differences except where measurement and re-measurement is outside 4 Significant accounting policies arising on translation are recognised in the statement of Cost is determined on the basis of the direct and indirect costs the scope of IFRS 5.
Where investments that have initially been The following principal accounting policies have been applied comprehensive income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are directly attributable.
Property, plant and equipment is recognised as non-current financial assets held-for-sale, because consistently where applicable to all years presented in dealing that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated the Group has been deemed as holding a controlling stake, are with items which are considered material in relation to the Group currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date useful lives, assessed to be five years for office equipment and subsequently disposed of or diluted such that the Groups and Company financial statements, unless otherwise stated.
four years for IT equipment.
The residual values and useful lives holding is no longer deemed a controlling stake, the investment of assets are reviewed at least annually.
Basis of consolidation The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including will subsequently be classified as an available-for-sale These financial statements consolidate the financial statements goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, Deferred acquisition costs financial asset.
Subsequent movements will be recognised of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are those are translated into Sterling at the foreign exchange rates Costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for the entities, including investment funds, over which the Company ruling at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses management contract are deferred if they can be identified newly adopted classification.
has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial of foreign operations are translated into Sterling at rates separately and measured reliably and it is probable that they Available-for-sale financial assets and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the will be recovered.
Deferred acquisition costs represent Available-for-sale financial assets are either financial assets its activities.
Foreign exchange differences the contractual right to benefit from providing investment allocated specifically to this category or are financial assets that presently are exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
arising on translation are recognised directly in other management services and are charged as the related revenue cannot be assigned to any other category.
They are carried at The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the comprehensive income.
fair value and changes in fair values are recognised in other consolidated financial statements from the date that control Business combinations Financial instruments comprehensive income, until the asset is disposed of or is transferred to the Group until the date that control ceases.
Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase Recognition and initial measurement impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously Intragroup balances and any unrealised gains and losses or method acquisition accounting.
The cost of a business Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes recognised in other comprehensive income is included in profit income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are combination is the aggregate of the fair values, at the date party to the contractual provisions of an instrument, initially for the year as part of comprehensive income.
eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, at fair value plus transaction costs except for financial assets The results of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included Other fair value through profit or loss FVTPL financial assets equity instruments issued by the acquirer and the amount classified at fair value through profit or loss.
Purchases or sales in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from FVTPL financial assets include non-current asset investments of non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The fair value of of financial assets are recognised on the trade date, being the the effective date of acquisition.
a business combination is calculated at the acquisition date date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Based on their nature, the interests of third-parties in funds that by recognising the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive i Non-current asset investments are consolidated consolidated funds are classified as liabilities contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria, at their cash flows from the investments have expired or been Non-current asset investments include closed-end funds which and appear as Third-party interests in consolidated funds in fair values at that date.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed transferred or when the Group has transferred substantially are classified as FVTPL.
They are held at fair value with changes the Groups balance sheet.
The acquisition date is the date on which the all risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are in fair value being recognised through the consolidated acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
derecognised when the obligation under the liability has been statement of comprehensive income.
Fair value is assessed The Group has an Employee Benefit Trust EBT that acts discharged, cancelled or expires.
by taking account of the extent to which potential dilution of as an agent for the purpose of the employee share-based Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the gains or losses may arise as a result of additional investors compensation plans.
Accordingly, the EBT is included within acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition Subsequent measurement subscribing to the fund where the final close of a fund has the Group and Company financial statements.
Subsequently, changes to the fair value of the contingent The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends not occurred.
consideration that is deemed to be a liability will be recognised on their classification in accordance with IAS 39.
Associates and joint ventures in accordance with IAS 39 in profit or loss.
If the contingent ii Derivatives Associates are partly owned entities over which the Group has Financial assets consideration is classified as equity, it will not be re-measured.
Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contracts and significant influence but no control.
Joint ventures are entities The Group may, from time to time, invest in funds where an options used by the Group to manage its foreign currency through which the Group and other parties undertake an Goodwill Ashmore Group subsidiary is the investment manager or an exposures and those held in consolidated funds.
economic activity which is subject to joint control.
The cost of a business combination in excess of the fair value advisor seeding.
Where the holding in such investments is of net identifiable assets or liabilities acquired, including intangible deemed to represent a controlling stake and is acquired Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are assets identified, is recognised as goodwill and stated at cost less exclusively with a view to subsequent disposal through sale or on which a derivative contract is entered and subsequently recognised using the equity method of accounting.
Goodwill has an indefinite dilution, these seed capital investments are recognised as nonre-measured at fair value.
Transaction costs are recognised method, the investments are initially recognised at cost, useful life, is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually current financial assets held-for-sale in accordance with IFRS 5 immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
All including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for for impairment or when there is an indication of impairment.
Non-current assets held-for-sale and discontinued operations.
derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is the post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets.
The Group recognises 100% of the investment in the fund as positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised Intangible assets a held-for-sale asset and the interest held by other parties as in the statement of comprehensive income.
The cost of intangible assets, such as management contracts Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of a liability held-for-sale.
Where control is not deemed to exist, and brand names, acquired as part of a business combination derivatives are taken directly in profit or loss, except for the Where the Groups financial year is not coterminous with those and the assets are readily realisable, they are recognised as are their fair value as at the date of acquisition.
The fair value effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised of its associates or joint ventures, unaudited interim financial available-for-sale financial assets.
Where the assets are not at the date of acquisition is calculated using the discounted cash in other comprehensive income.
information is used after appropriate adjustments have been made.
readily realisable, they are recognised as non-current asset 78 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued of the net present value of estimated future cash flows, adjusted as deemed appropriate for liquidity, credit, market Trade and other receivables and or other risk factors.
Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value plus transaction costs.
The fair value on acquisition is normally Investments in open-ended funds are valued on the basis the cost.
Impairment losses with respect to the estimated of last available NAV of the units or shares of such funds.
irrecoverable amount are recognised through the statement of The fair value of the derivatives is their quoted market price comprehensive income when there is appropriate evidence that at the balance sheet date.
trade and other receivables are impaired.
However, if a longerterm receivable carries no interest, the fair value is estimated Hedge accounting as the present value of all future cash payments or receipts The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the discounted using the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
transactions meet the specified hedge accounting criteria.
The resulting adjustment is recognised as interest expense or To qualify, the following conditions must be met: interest income.
Subsequent to initial recognition these assets formal documentation of the relationship between the are measured at amortised cost less any impairment.
hedging instrument s and hedged item s must exist at Cash and cash equivalents inception: Cash represents cash at bank and in hand and cash equivalents the hedged cash flows must be highly probable and must comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
ultimately affect profit and loss: the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured: and Financial liabilities Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale the hedge must be highly effective, with effectiveness Non-current financial liabilities represent interests held by other assessed on an ongoing basis.
parties in funds in which the Group recognises 100% of the For qualifying cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of investment in the fund as a held-for-sale financial asset.
These the effective hedging instrument is initially recognised in other liabilities are carried at fair value with gain or losses recognised comprehensive income and is released to profit for the year as in the statement of comprehensive income within finance part of comprehensive income in the same period during which income or expenses.
the relevant financial asset or liability affects profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at FVTPL Where the hedge is highly effective overall, any ineffective Financial liabilities at FVTPL include derivative financial portion of the hedge is immediately recognised in profit and instruments and third-party interests in consolidated funds.
Where the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a They are carried at fair value with gains or losses recognised in hedge, or is sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting the statement of comprehensive income within finance income is discontinued.
Impairment Other financial liabilities General Other financial liabilities including trade and other payables are The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any interest rate method.
If any such indication exists, the Fair value estimation assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is Securities listed on a recognised stock exchange or dealt on any recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds other regulated market that operates regularly, recognised and its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the open to the public, are valued at the last known available closing statement of comprehensive income.
If a security is traded on several actively traded and The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their fair organised financial markets, the valuation is made on the basis value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in of the last known bid price on the main market on which the use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their securities are traded.
In the case of securities for which trading present value using the Groups weighted average cost of on an actively traded and organised financial market is not capital.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent significant, but which are bought and sold on a secondary cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the market with regulated trading among security dealers with the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
effect that the price is set on a market basis, the valuation may be based on this secondary market.
In respect of assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used Where instruments are not listed on any stock exchange or not to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is traded on any regulated markets, valuation techniques are used reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount by valuation specialists.
These techniques include the market does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been approach, the income approach or the cost approach for which determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no sufficient and reliable data is available.
The use of the market impairment loss had been recognised.
approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions or using techniques based on market observable inputs, while the use of the income approach generally consists 80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued of the net present value of estimated future cash flows, Goodwill Share-based payments adjusted as deemed appropriate for liquidity, credit, market Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is The Group issues share awards to its employees under shareTrade and other receivables and or other risk factors.
an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based compensation plans.
Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value based on managements judgements regarding the future plus transaction costs.
The fair value on acquisition is normally Investments in open-ended funds are valued on the basis For equity-settled awards the fair value of the amounts payable prospects of the business, estimates of future cash flows and the cost.
to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding discount rates.
When assessing the appropriateness of the irrecoverable amount are recognised through the statement of increase in equity, over the vesting period after adjusting for The fair value of the derivatives is their quoted market price carrying value of goodwill at year end, the recoverable amount is comprehensive income when there is appropriate evidence that estimated number of shares that are expected to vest.
The fair at the balance sheet date.
considered to be the greater of fair value less costs to sell or trade and other receivables are impaired.
However, if a longervalue is measured at grant date using an appropriate valuation value in use.
The pre-tax discount rate applied is based on the term receivable carries no interest, the fair value is estimated Hedge accounting model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which Groups weighted average cost of capital after making as the present value of all future cash payments or receipts The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the the instruments were granted.
At each balance sheet date prior allowances for specific risks.
discounted using the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
to vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to The resulting adjustment is recognised as interest expense or To qualify, the following conditions must be met: The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with which the vesting period has expired and managements best interest income.
Subsequent to initial recognition these assets asset allocations, research and other such operational practices estimate of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is formal documentation of the relationship between the are measured at amortised cost less any impairment.
reflecting the commonality of approach across all fund themes.
The movement in cumulative expense is recognised hedging instrument s and hedged item s must exist at Therefore, for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, in the statement of comprehensive income with a Cash and cash equivalents inception: the Group is considered to have one cash-generating unit to corresponding entry within equity.
Cash represents cash at bank and in hand and cash equivalents the hedged cash flows must be highly probable and must which all goodwill is allocated and, as a result, no further split comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could For cash-settled awards the fair value of the amounts payable of goodwill into smaller cash-generating units is possible and instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
ultimately affect profit and loss: to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding the impairment review is conducted for the Group as a whole.
liability on the Groups balance sheet.
The fair value is measured the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured: and Financial liabilities An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
using an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale the hedge must be highly effective, with effectiveness estimated number of awards that are expected to vest and the Non-current financial liabilities represent interests held by other assessed on an ongoing basis.
Revenue terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
parties in funds in which the Group recognises 100% of the Revenue comprises management fees, performance fees For qualifying cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of During the vesting period, the liability recognised represents the investment in the fund as a held-for-sale financial asset.
Revenue is recognised in the statement the effective hedging instrument is initially recognised in other portion of the vesting period that has expired at balance sheet liabilities are carried at fair value with gain or losses recognised of comprehensive income as and when the related services are comprehensive income and is released to profit for the year as date multiplied by the fair value of the awards at that date.
in the statement of comprehensive income within finance provided.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable part of comprehensive income in the same period during which Movements in the liability are recognised in the statement income or expenses.
that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the the relevant financial asset or liability affects profit or loss.
revenue can be reliably measured.
Specific revenue recognition Financial liabilities at FVTPL Where the hedge is highly effective overall, any ineffective policies are: Operating leases Financial liabilities at FVTPL include derivative financial portion of the hedge is immediately recognised in profit and Payments payable under operating leases are recognised in instruments and third-party interests in consolidated funds.
Where the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line They are carried at fair value with gains or losses recognised in Management fees net of rebates are accrued over the period hedge, or is sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are the statement of comprehensive income within finance income for which the service is provided.
Where management fees are is discontinued.
recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and are or expense.
received in advance these are recognised over the period of the recorded as a reduction in premises costs.
Impairment provision of the asset management service.
Other financial liabilities General Finance income and expense Other financial liabilities including trade and other payables are Performance fees The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at Finance income includes interest receivable on the Groups subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective Performance fees net of rebates relate to the performance of each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any cash and cash equivalents, realised gains on available-for-sale interest rate method.
funds managed during the period and are recognised when the indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the financial assets and both realised and unrealised gains on heldquantum of the fee can be estimated reliably and it is probable Fair value estimation assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is for-sale assets.
that the fee will crystallise.
This is usually at the end of the Securities listed on a recognised stock exchange or dealt on any recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds performance period or upon early redemption by a client.
Finance income also includes adjustments in relation to the other regulated market that operates regularly, recognised and its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Groups contingent consideration liabilities related to open to the public, are valued at the last known available closing statement of comprehensive income.
Other revenue acquisitions and charges in respect of unwinding of net present bid price.
If a security is traded on several actively traded and Other revenue includes transaction, structuring and The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their fair value discounts.
organised financial markets, the valuation is made on the basis administration fees, and reimbursement by funds of costs value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in of the last known bid price on the main market on which the incurred by the Group.
This revenue is recognised when the Finance expense includes the unwind of the discounts applied use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their securities are traded.
In the case of securities for which trading related services are provided.
to contingent consideration liabilities on the Groups balance present value using the Groups weighted average cost of on an actively traded and organised financial market is not sheet using the effective interest method.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent Distribution costs significant, but which are bought and sold on a secondary cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the Distribution costs are cost of sales payable to third parties and market with regulated trading among security dealers with the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
are recognised over the period for which the service is provided.
In respect of assets other than goodwill, an impairment loss Employee benefits is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension Where instruments are not listed on any stock exchange or not to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is plans are recognised as an expense in the statement of traded on any regulated markets, valuation techniques are used reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount comprehensive income when payable in accordance with the by valuation specialists.
These techniques include the market does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been scheme particulars.
approach, the income approach or the cost approach for which determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no sufficient and reliable data is available.
approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions or using techniques based on market observable inputs, while the use of the income approach generally consists 80 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Segmental information Key management information, including revenues, margins, Taxation investment performance, distribution costs and AuM flows, Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current which is relevant to the operation of the Group, is reported to and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the statement of and reviewed by the Board on the basis of the investment comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates management business as a whole and, hence, the Groups to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is management considers that the Groups services and its recognised in equity.
operations are not run on a discrete geographic basis and Current tax comprise one business segment being provision of investment Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income management services.
for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted Company-only accounting policies at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group operates, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of In addition to the above accounting policies, the following previous years.
specifically relate to the Company.
Deferred tax Investment in subsidiaries Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability Investments by the Company in subsidiaries are stated at cost method, providing for temporary differences between the less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Dividends Dividends are recognised when shareholders rights to receive payments have been established.
Equity shares The Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each are classified as equity instruments.
Ordinary shares issued by the Company are recorded at the fair value of the consideration received or the market price at the day of issue.
Direct issue costs, net of tax, are deducted from equity through share premium.
When share capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Own shares Own shares are held by the EBT.
The holding of the EBT comprises own shares that have not vested unconditionally to employees of the Group.
In both the Group and Company, own shares are recorded at cost and are deducted from retained earnings.
Treasury shares Treasury shares are recognised in equity and are measured at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and original cost being taken to retained earnings.
82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Segmental information 5 Segmental information Key management information, including revenues, margins, Taxation The location of the Groups non-current assets at year end other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and postinvestment performance, distribution costs and AuM flows, Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current employment benefit assets is shown in the table below.
Disclosures relating to revenue are in note 6. which is relevant to the operation of the Group, is reported to and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the statement of Analysis of non-current assets by geography and reviewed by the Board on the basis of the investment comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates 2013 2012 management business as a whole and, hence, the Groups to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is m m management considers that the Groups services and its recognised in equity.
United Kingdom 16.9 12.3 operations are not run on a discrete geographic basis and Current tax comprise one business segment being provision of investment United States 82.6 96.8 Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income management services.
Other 0.9 0.9 for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted Company-only accounting policies at the balance sheet date in the countries where the Group 6 Revenue operates, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of In addition to the above accounting policies, the following Management fees are accrued throughout the year in line with fluctuations in the levels of assets under management and previous years.
performance fees are recognised when they can be estimated reliably and it is probable that they will crystallise.
The Group is not Deferred tax Investment in subsidiaries considered to be reliant on any single source of revenue.
During the year, none of the Groups funds provided more than 10% Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability Investments by the Company in subsidiaries are stated at cost FY2011 12: two funds provided 11.3% and 10.5% of total revenue in the year respectively when considering management fees method, providing for temporary differences between the less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
and performance fees on a combined basis.
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting Analysis of revenue by geography purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The 2013 2012 following differences are not provided for: m m goodwill not deductible for tax purposes: and United Kingdom earned revenue 320.1 294.8 differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to United States earned revenue 27.9 34.7 the extent that they will probably not reverse in the Other revenue 7.6 3.8 foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected 7 Foreign exchange manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of The foreign exchange rates which had a material impact on the Groups results are the US dollar, the Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah.
assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively Average rate Average rate enacted at the balance sheet date.
Closing rate as year ended Closing rate as year ended at 30 June 30 June at 30 June 30 June A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is 2013 2013 2012 2012 probable that future taxable profits will be available against US dollar 1.5213 1.5707 1.5690 1.5901 which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced Brazilian real 3.3907 n a 3.2216 n a to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax Indonesian rupiah 15,258 n a 15,183 n a benefit will be realised.
Dividends The Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah did not have a material impact on the Groups results for the year ended 30 June 2012.
Dividends are recognised when shareholders rights to receive Foreign exchange differences arose as shown below.
2013 2012 Equity shares m m The Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each are Net realised and unrealised hedging losses gains 1.2 0.1 classified as equity instruments.
Ordinary shares issued by the Translation gains on non-Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 5.9 2.7 Company are recorded at the fair value of the consideration Total foreign exchange gains 4.7 2.8 received or the market price at the day of issue.
Direct issue costs, net of tax, are deducted from equity through share 8 Finance income and expense premium.
When share capital is repurchased, the amount of 2013 consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is 2012 m m recognised as a change in equity.
Finance income Own shares Interest on cash and cash equivalents 3.2 3.7 Own shares are held by the EBT.
The holding of the EBT Finance income 23.4 18.5 comprises own shares that have not vested unconditionally to employees of the Group.
In both the Group and Company, 26.6 22.2 own shares are recorded at cost and are deducted from Finance expense 0.9 4.1 retained earnings.
Net finance income 25.7 18.1 Treasury shares Included within finance income is 10.8 million FY2011 12: 16.8 million in relation to the downward adjustment of the Groups Treasury shares are recognised in equity and are measured at contingent consideration liabilities, nil FY2011 12: 0.4 million received as part of an acquisition-related purchase price adjustment cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also and 12.6 million FY2011 12: 0.4 million in relation to realised gains on available-for-sale and both realised and unrealised gains on recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds held-for-sale seed capital and non-current financial asset investments.
from the sale and original cost being taken to retained earnings.
Included within finance expense is 0.9 million FY2011 12: 4.1 million in relation to the unwind of the discounts applied to contingent consideration liabilities on the Groups balance sheet.
82 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Personnel expenses Personnel expenses during the year comprised the following: 2013 2012 m m Wages and salaries 20.0 18.0 Performance-related cash bonuses 25.9 34.1 Share-based payments 28.4 14.3 Social security costs 4.2 2.2 Pension costs 1.2 1.5 Other costs 2.6 2.9 Total personnel expenses 82.3 73.0 Personnel expenses in respect of the year ended 30 June 2013 include an amount of 0.6 million FY2011 12: 0.6 million that has been waived by Directors and employees in earlier periods with an equivalent amount to be paid to charity in the financial year to 30 June 2013.
Number of employees The number of employees of the Group including Directors during the reporting year, all categorised as investment management personnel, was as follows: Average for Average for At At the year ended the year ended 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 Number Number Number Number Total employees 280 251 291 257 Directors remuneration Disclosures of Directors remuneration during the year as required by the Companies Act 2006 are included in the Remuneration report on pages 54 to 66.
There are retirement benefits accruing to two Directors under a defined contribution scheme FY2011 12: two.
10 Share-based payments The total share-based payments-related cost recognised by the Group in the statement of comprehensive income is shown below: 2013 2012 Group m m Omnibus Plan 24.8 8.9 US subsidiary operating agreement 0.3 Total related to compensation awards 25.1 8.9 Related to acquisition of Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. formerly Ashmore EMM L. L. C. 3.3 5.4 Total share-based payments expense 28.4 14.3 The total expense recognised for the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions was 29.0 million FY2011 12: 10.4 million.
84 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 84 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 9 Personnel expenses The Ashmore First Discretionary Share Option Scheme Option Scheme The Option Scheme was set up in October 2000.
Options issued under the Option Scheme typically have a life of ten years and vest Personnel expenses during the year comprised the following: after five years from date of grant.
The pro rata proportion of the fair value of options at each reporting year end has been accounted 2013 2012 for on an equity-settled basis.
No further options will be issued under the Option Scheme.
m m Share options outstanding under the Option Scheme were as follows: Wages and salaries 20.0 18.0 Performance-related cash bonuses 25.9 34.1 Weighted Weighted 2013 average 2012 average Share-based payments 28.4 14.3 Number of exercise price Number of exercise price Social security costs 4.2 2.2 Group and Company options pence options pence Pension costs 1.2 1.5 At the beginning of the year 1,898,221 33.20 4,229,071 26.15 Other costs 2.6 2.9 Exercised 1,394,471 32.51 2,330,850 20.42 Total personnel expenses 82.3 73.0 Forfeited Options outstanding at year end 503,750 35.11 1,898,221 33.20 Personnel expenses in respect of the year ended 30 June 2013 include an amount of 0.6 million FY2011 12: 0.6 million that Options exercisable 503,750 35.11 1,898,221 33.20 has been waived by Directors and employees in earlier periods with an equivalent amount to be paid to charity in the financial year to 30 June 2013.
The weighted average share price on the date options were exercised during the year ended 30 June 2013 was 363.48p FY2011 12: 369.92p.
Number of employees The number of employees of the Group including Directors during the reporting year, all categorised as investment management Weighted average remaining contractual life of outstanding options personnel, was as follows: At 30 June At 30 June Average for Average for Group and Company 2013 2012 At At the year ended the year ended Outstanding options 503,750 1,898,221 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 30 June 2013 30 June 2012 Number Number Number Number Weighted average exercise price 35.11p 33.20p Total employees 280 251 291 257 Weighted average remaining contracted life years 2.63 3.56 Directors remuneration Range of exercise prices for share options outstanding at the end of the year Disclosures of Directors remuneration during the year as required by the Companies Act 2006 are included in the Remuneration Group and Company 2013 2012 report on pages 54 to 66.
Exercise price per share p Exercise periods Number Number There are retirement benefits accruing to two Directors under a defined contribution scheme FY2011 12: two.
10.00-20.00 9 December 2010 8 December 2015 328,750 1,578,750 20.00-30.00 27 April 2011 26 April 2016 125,000 143,000 10 Share-based payments 170.00-180.00 8 December 2011 7 December 2016 50,000 176,471 The total share-based payments-related cost recognised by the Group in the statement of comprehensive income is shown below: 503,750 1,898,221 2013 2012 Group m m There were no new share options granted during the year ended 30 June 2013 FY2011 12: none.
Omnibus Plan 24.8 8.9 The Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan US subsidiary operating agreement 0.3 The Omnibus Plan was introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and provides for the grant of share awards, market Total related to compensation awards 25.1 8.9 value options, premium cost options, discounted options, linked options, phantoms and or nil cost options to employees.
The Related to acquisition of Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. formerly Ashmore EMM Omnibus Plan will also allow bonuses to be deferred in the form of share awards with or without matching shares.
These elements L. L. C. 3.3 5.4 can be used singly or in combination.
Awards granted under the Omnibus Plan typically vest after five years from date of grant, Total share-based payments expense 28.4 14.3 with the exception of bonus awards which vest after the shorter of five years from date of grant or on the date of termination of employment.
Awards under the Omnibus Plan are accounted for as equity-settled, with the exception of phantoms which The total expense recognised for the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment transactions was 29.0 million are classified as cash-settled.
The share-based payments relating to the Omnibus Plan represent the combined cash and equity-settled payments.
Total expense by year awards were granted Group and Company 2013 2012 Year of grant m m 2007 2.4 2008 1.0 1.1 2009 1.0 0.5 2010 1.8 1.7 2011 3.3 2.1 2012 1.8 12.3 2013 15.9 24.8 8.9 84 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued Awards outstanding under the Omnibus Plan were as follows: i Equity-settled awards 2013 2013 2012 2012 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted shares subject average share shares subject average share Group and Company to awards price to awards price Restricted share awards At the beginning of the year 15,877,630 2.90 15,988,966 2.42 Granted 4,836,236 3.29 4,834,808 3.93 Vested 2,333,276 3.72 1,108,813 3.33 Forfeited 309,784 3.45 3,837,331 2.39 Awards outstanding at year end 18,070,806 2.98 15,877,630 2.90 Bonus share awards At the beginning of the year 4,906,912 3.01 3,450,279 2.61 Granted 1,430,420 3.29 1,559,408 3.93 Vested 1,203,234 3.80 102,775 3.73 Forfeited Awards outstanding at year end 5,134,098 3.10 4,906,912 3.01 Matching share awards At the beginning of the year 4,906,912 3.01 3,450,279 2.61 Granted 1,430,420 3.29 1,559,408 3.93 Vested 1,162,885 3.81 5,213 3.61 Forfeited 40,349 2.95 97,562 3.34 Awards outstanding at year end 5,134,098 3.10 4,906,912 3.01 Total 28,339,002 3.02 25,691,454 2.95 ii Cash-settled awards 2013 2013 2012 2012 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted shares subject average share shares subject average share Group and Company to awards price to awards price Restricted share awards At the beginning of the year 1,806,068 3.54 1,265,622 2.92 Granted 409,405 3.29 908,239 3.93 Vested 1,985 3.31 108,225 3.29 Forfeited 8,170 3.94 259,568 2.54 Awards outstanding at year end 2,205,318 3.49 1,806,068 3.54 Bonus share awards At the beginning of the year 1,300,075 3.55 700,151 3.15 Granted 296,120 3.29 638,116 3.93 Vested Forfeited 38,192 2.70 Awards outstanding at year end 1,596,195 3.50 1,300,075 3.55 Matching share awards At the beginning of the year 1,300,075 3.55 700,151 3.15 Granted 296,120 3.29 638,116 3.93 Vested Forfeited 38,192 2.70 Awards outstanding at year end 1,596,195 3.50 1,300,075 3.55 Total 5,397,708 3.50 4,406,218 3.55 86 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 86 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued iii Total awards 2013 2013 Awards outstanding under the Omnibus Plan were as follows: 2012 2012 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted shares subject average share i Equity-settled awards shares subject average share Group and Company to awards price to awards price 2013 2013 2012 2012 Restricted share awards Number of Weighted Number of Weighted shares subject average share shares subject average share At the beginning of the year 17,683,698 2.96 17,254,588 2.46 Group and Company to awards price to awards price Granted 5,245,641 3.29 5,743,047 3.93 Restricted share awards Vested 2,335,261 2.72 1,217,038 3.33 At the beginning of the year 15,877,630 2.90 15,988,966 2.42 Forfeited 317,954 3.46 4,096,899 2.40 Granted 4,836,236 3.29 4,834,808 3.93 Awards outstanding at year end 20,276,124 3.04 17,683,698 2.96 Vested 2,333,276 3.72 1,108,813 3.33 Forfeited 309,784 3.45 3,837,331 2.39 Bonus share awards Awards outstanding at year end 18,070,806 2.98 15,877,630 2.90 At the beginning of the year 6,206,987 3.12 4,150,430 2.70 Granted 1,726,540 3.29 2,197,524 3.93 Bonus share awards Vested 1,203,234 3.80 102,775 3.73 At the beginning of the year 4,906,912 3.01 3,450,279 2.61 Forfeited 38,192 2.70 Granted 1,430,420 3.29 1,559,408 3.93 Awards outstanding at year end 6,730,293 3.19 6,206,987 3.12 Vested 1,203,234 3.80 102,775 3.73 Forfeited Matching share awards Awards outstanding at year end 5,134,098 3.10 4,906,912 3.01 At the beginning of the year 6,206,987 3.12 4,150,430 2.70 Matching share awards Granted 1,726,540 3.29 2,197,524 3.93 Vested 1,162,885 3.81 5,213 3.61 At the beginning of the year 4,906,912 3.01 3,450,279 2.61 Granted 1,430,420 3.29 1,559,408 3.93 Forfeited 40,349 2.95 135,754 3.16 Vested 1,162,885 3.81 5,213 3.61 Awards outstanding at year end 6,730,293 3.19 6,206,987 3.12 Forfeited 40,349 2.95 97,562 3.34 Total 33,736,710 3.10 30,097,672 3.04 Awards outstanding at year end 5,134,098 3.10 4,906,912 3.01 The fair value of awards granted under the Omnibus Plan is determined by the average Ashmore Group plc closing share price for Total 28,339,002 3.02 25,691,454 2.95 the five business days prior to grant.
Where the grant of restricted and matching share awards is linked to the annual bonus process the fair value of the awards is spread ii Cash-settled awards over a period including the current financial year and the subsequent five years to their release date when the grantee becomes 2013 2013 2012 2012 Number of Weighted Number of Weighted unconditionally entitled to the underlying shares.
The fair value of the remaining awards is spread over the period from date of grant shares subject average share shares subject average share to the release date.
Group and Company to awards price to awards price The liability arising from cash-settled awards under the Omnibus Plan at the end of the year and reported within trade and other Restricted share awards payables in the consolidated balance sheet is 12.0million 30 June 2012: 8.7 million of which nil 30 June 2012: nil relates At the beginning of the year 1,806,068 3.54 1,265,622 2.92 to vested awards.
Granted 409,405 3.29 908,239 3.93 The Approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP Vested 1,985 3.31 108,225 3.29 The CSOP was also introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and is an option scheme providing for the grant of Forfeited 8,170 3.94 259,568 2.54 market value options to employees with the aggregate value of outstanding options not exceeding 30,000 per employee.
The Awards outstanding at year end 2,205,318 3.49 1,806,068 3.54 CSOP qualifies as a UK tax approved company share option plan and approval thereto has been obtained from HMRC.
To date, there have been no awards made under the CSOP.
Bonus share awards At the beginning of the year 1,300,075 3.55 700,151 3.15 Granted 296,120 3.29 638,116 3.93 Vested Forfeited 38,192 2.70 Awards outstanding at year end 1,596,195 3.50 1,300,075 3.55 Matching share awards At the beginning of the year 1,300,075 3.55 700,151 3.15 Granted 296,120 3.29 638,116 3.93 Vested Forfeited 38,192 2.70 Awards outstanding at year end 1,596,195 3.50 1,300,075 3.55 Total 5,397,708 3.50 4,406,218 3.55 86 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued Other arrangements US subsidiary operating agreement Under the terms of a US subsidiarys operating agreement, certain employees are eligible to receive part of their variable compensation in the form of partnership units.
These awards, which typically vest five years from the date of grant depending on the satisfaction of service conditions, are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments.
The fair value of awards granted is based on the equity valuation of the subsidiary at the date of grant.
Upon vesting, the holders are entitled to receive units in the subsidiary.
Share awards outstanding at year end under the operating arrangement were as follows: 2013 2012 2013 Weighted 2012 Weighted Number of average share Number of average share shares subject price shares subject price Group to awards US dollars to awards US dollars At the beginning of the year Granted 54,352 $32.05 Vested Forfeited Awards outstanding at year end 54,352 $32.05 Phantom Bonus Plan In August 2012, the Phantom Bonus Plan, a cash-settled share-based payment plan, was set up to provide long-term incentives to certain employees.
The units typically vest after 5 years from date of grant, contingent upon continued employment.
Units awarded under the plan carry no voting rights.
The fair value of units granted under the plan is determined with reference to the equity valuation of the underlying employing entity.
13,229 awards were granted during the year and none were forfeited or vested during the year.
As at 30 June 2013, 13,229 awards were outstanding and the related liability reported within trade and other payables in the consolidated and Company balance sheet is 0.1 million of which nil relates to vested awards.
Acquisition of Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. formerly Ashmore EMM L. L. C. On acquisition of Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. employees and management held unvested shares representing 17.9% of its partnership shares.
These awards, which vest after five years depending on the satisfaction of service conditions, are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payment which results in an annual charge to the statement of comprehensive income during the period of vesting.
Upon vesting, the holders are entitled to receive shares in Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. which may be exchanged for shares in Ashmore Group plc or cash at the discretion of the Group.
The grant date fair value was based on the intrinsic value proportionate with the value implied from the purchase consideration paid by the Group to acquire Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C.. During the year, no awards were granted FY2011 12: none, 5,463 awards vested FY2011 12: none and 71,587 awards FY2011 12: 16,760 awards were forfeited.
317,400 awards 30 June 2012: 394,450 awards are outstanding as at year end.
11 Other expenses Other expenses consist of the following: 2013 2012 m m Travel 6.0 5.9 Professional fees 2.9 4.0 Information technology and communications 5.2 4.3 Deferred acquisition costs note 17 1.7 2.1 Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 5.1 6.2 Impairment of intangible assets note 15 11.0 1.2 Operating leases 3.5 2.8 Premises-related costs 1.2 1.7 Insurance 0.9 0.9 Auditors remuneration see below 1.1 0.9 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 16 2.4 1.6 Other expenses 3.9 2.8 44.9 34.4 88 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 88 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued Auditors remuneration 2013 Other arrangements 2012 m m US subsidiary operating agreement Fees for statutory audit services: Under the terms of a US subsidiarys operating agreement, certain employees are eligible to receive part of their variable compensation in the form of partnership units.
These awards, which typically vest five years from the date of grant depending Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Groups accounts 0.2 0.2 on the satisfaction of service conditions, are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments.
The fair value of awards Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries granted is based on the equity valuation of the subsidiary at the date of grant.
Upon vesting, the holders are entitled to receive units pursuant to legislation 0.3 0.2 in the subsidiary.
Share awards outstanding at year end under the operating arrangement were as follows: Fees for non-audit services: Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for tax services 0.3 0.2 2013 2012 2013 Weighted 2012 Weighted Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services 0.3 0.3 Number of average share Number of average share shares subject price shares subject price 1.1 0.9 Group to awards US dollars to awards US dollars At the beginning of the year 12 Taxation Granted 54,352 $32.05 Analysis of tax charge for the year Vested 2013 2012 m m Forfeited Current tax Awards outstanding at year end 54,352 $32.05 UK corporation tax on profits for the year 56.7 56.5 Phantom Bonus Plan Overseas corporation tax charge 3.9 2.4 In August 2012, the Phantom Bonus Plan, a cash-settled share-based payment plan, was set up to provide long-term incentives to Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.6 certain employees.
Units awarded 60.6 57.3 under the plan carry no voting rights.
Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences see note 19 5.2 13,229 awards were granted during the year and none were forfeited or vested during the year.
As at 30 June 2013, 13,229 awards Adjustments in respect of prior year 0.2 were outstanding and the related liability reported within trade and other payables in the consolidated and Company balance sheet is 0.1 million of which nil relates to vested awards.
Effect of changes in corporation tax rates 0.6 Tax expense for the year 56.0 57.5 Acquisition of Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. formerly Ashmore EMM L. L. C. On acquisition of Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. employees and management held unvested shares Factors affecting tax charge for the year representing 17.9% of its partnership shares.
These awards, which vest after five years depending on the satisfaction of service 2013 conditions, are accounted for as equity-settled share-based payments in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payment which results 2012 m m in an annual charge to the statement of comprehensive income during the period of vesting.
Upon vesting, the holders are entitled Profit before tax 257.6 243.2 to receive shares in Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. which may be exchanged for shares in Ashmore Group plc or cash at the discretion of the Group.
The grant date fair value was based on the intrinsic value proportionate with the value implied from the purchase consideration paid by the Group to acquire Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C.. Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the blended UK tax rate of 23.75% FY2011 12: 25.5% 61.2 62.0 During the year, no awards were granted FY2011 12: none, 5,463 awards vested FY2011 12: none and 71,587 awards FY2011 12: 16,760 awards were forfeited.
Effects of: Non-deductible expenses 10.6 2.1 11 Other expenses Deduction in respect of vested shares exercised options Part 12, Corporation Tax Act 2009 4.1 0.1 Other expenses consist of the following: Deferred tax arising from origination and reversal of temporary differences 5.2 2013 2012 Overseas taxes, net of overseas tax relief 1.3 2.4 m m Non-taxable income Travel 6.0 5.9 Write-off of contingent consideration 2.6 5.9 Professional fees 2.9 4.0 Other non-taxable income 2.2 Information technology and communications 5.2 4.3 Tax relief on amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangibles 1.7 1.6 Deferred acquisition costs note 17 1.7 2.1 Effect of deferred tax balance from changes in the UK corporation tax rate 0.6 Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 5.1 6.2 Other items 0.7 Impairment of intangible assets note 15 11.0 1.2 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.4 Operating leases 3.5 2.8 Premises-related costs 1.2 1.7 Tax expense for the year 56.0 57.5 Insurance 0.9 0.9 Non-deductible expenses mainly comprise non-deductible IFRS 2 accounting charges with respect to share-based compensation of Auditors remuneration see below 1.1 0.9 6.1 million and disallowable amortisation and impairment of intangibles charges of 4.0 million.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 16 2.4 1.6 Other expenses 3.9 2.8 44.9 34.4 88 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Taxation continued Charge recognised in equity other comprehensive income 2013 2012 m m Current tax on available-for-sale financial assets 0.1 Deferred tax on available-for-sale financial assets 0.2 Deferred tax on share-based payments 0.7 1.7 0.7 2.0 A reduction to the main rate of UK corporation tax from 24% to 23% was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012 and became effective from 1 April 2013.
The effect of this rate reduction has been reflected in the figures set out above and the 23% rate used in the calculation of the UKs deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The rate is set to fall to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and thereafter to 20% from 1 April 2015.
These rate reductions were substantively enacted on 2 July 2013.
13 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent of 202.2 million FY2011 12: 181.5 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding own shares.
Diluted earnings per share is based on basic earnings per share adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.
Reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is shown below.
2013 2012 Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 674,777,956 676,460,821 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share options awards 30,328,790 26,845,937 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 705,106,746 703,306,758 14 Dividends Dividends paid in the year 2013 2012 Company m m Final dividend for FY2011 12 10.75p FY2010 11: 10.34p 75.0 71.6 Interim dividend for FY2012 13 4.35p FY2011 12: 4.25p 30.2 29.4 105.2 101.0 In addition, the Group paid 5.7 million FY2011 12: 5.9 million of dividends to non-controlling interests.
Dividends declared proposed in respect of the year 2013 2012 Company pence pence Interim dividend declared per share 4.35 4.25 Final dividend proposed per share 11.75 10.75 16.10 15.00 On 9 September 2013 the Board proposed a final dividend of 11.75p per share for the year ended 30 June 2013.
This has not been recognised as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the year end which qualify to receive a dividend, the total amount payable would be 81.2 million.
90 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 90 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Other expenses continued 15 Goodwill and intangible assets Fund Other Charge recognised in equity other comprehensive income Brand management intangible 2013 2012 Goodwill relationships name assets Total m m Group m m m m m Current tax on available-for-sale financial assets 0.1 Cost Deferred tax on available-for-sale financial assets 0.2 At 30 June 2011, 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013 57.5 39.5 1.8 2.6 101.4 Deferred tax on share-based payments 0.7 1.7 0.7 2.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 30 June 2011 0.4 0.1 0.5 A reduction to the main rate of UK corporation tax from 24% to 23% was substantively enacted on 3 July 2012 and became effective from 1 April 2013.
The effect of this rate reduction has been reflected in the figures set out above and the 23% rate used Amortisation charge for year 5.1 0.2 0.9 6.2 in the calculation of the UKs deferred tax assets and liabilities.
The rate is set to fall to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014 and Impairment charge for the year 1.2 1.2 thereafter to 20% from 1 April 2015.
At 30 June 2012 5.5 0.2 2.2 7.9 Amortisation charge for the year 4.8 0.3 5.1 13 Earnings per share Impairment charge for the year 9.4 1.6 11.0 Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent of 202.2 million FY2011 12: 181.5 million by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, At 30 June 2013 19.7 1.8 2.5 24.0 excluding own shares.
There is no difference Net book value between the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations.
At 30 June 2011 58.7 40.1 1.8 2.6 103.2 Reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is shown below.
Accumulated amortisation and impairment movement for the year 5.1 0.2 2.1 7.4 FX revaluation through reserves 1.3 0.8 0.1 0.1 2.3 2013 2012 Number of Number of At 30 June 2012 60.0 35.8 1.7 0.6 98.1 ordinary shares ordinary shares Accumulated amortisation and impairment movement for the year 14.2 1.6 0.3 16.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 674,777,956 676,460,821 FX revaluation through reserves 1.7 0.7 0.1 2.3 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share options awards 30,328,790 26,845,937 At 30 June 2013 61.7 22.3 0.3 84.3 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 705,106,746 703,306,758 FX revaluation through reserves is a result of the retranslation of US dollar-denominated intangibles and goodwill.
14 Dividends Dividends paid in the year Goodwill Company m 2013 2012 Company m m Cost Final dividend for FY2011 12 10.75p FY2010 11: 10.34p 75.0 71.6 At the beginning and end of the year 4.1 Interim dividend for FY2012 13 4.35p FY2011 12: 4.25p 30.2 29.4 Net carrying amount at 30 June 2012 and 2013 4.1 105.2 101.0 Goodwill In addition, the Group paid 5.7 million FY2011 12: 5.9 million of dividends to non-controlling interests.
The goodwill balance within the Group relates principally to the acquisition of Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. in May 2011.
Dividends declared proposed in respect of the year The goodwill balance within the Company relates to the acquisition of the business from ANZ in 1999.
2013 2012 Company pence pence The annual impairment review of goodwill was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2013.
The recoverable amount of the cashInterim dividend declared per share 4.35 4.25 generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated was determined by a value in use calculation.
The calculation was based on the Final dividend proposed per share 11.75 10.75 forecast future profitability and cash flow projections of the cash-generating unit over a 10-year period which management believes 16.10 15.00 is the most appropriate timescale to review and consider performance.
Budgets and plans approved by management cover the first three years of the 10-year projections.
A pre-tax discount rate of 13.0% based on the Groups cost weighted cost of capital was On 9 September 2013 the Board proposed a final dividend of 11.75p per share for the year ended 30 June 2013.
This has not been used in calculating value in use.
Adjustments required in determining the discount rate from the weighted cost of capital were not recognised as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders.
Based on the number of considered to have a material impact.
No growth was assumed in determining projected cash flows beyond the period covered by shares in issue at the year end which qualify to receive a dividend, the total amount payable would be 81.2 million.
the approved budgets and plans.
Based on managements value in use calculation, the recoverable amount was in excess of the carrying amount and no impairment was therefore deemed necessary.
An increase in the discount rate by 5.0% 30 June 2012: 5.0% would not result in the recoverable amount being lower than the carrying amount.
Fund management relationships and the brand name Intangible assets are comprised of fund management relationships related to profit expected to be earned from clients of Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. acquired in 2011 and its brand name.
During the year to 30 June 2013, as a result of the impairment indicator of the loss of certain historical fund management clients and rebranding of the equities business, it was identified that some of the Groups fund management relationships and brand name were likely to be impaired.
As a result, a review of the recoverable amounts of the fund management relationships and the brand name intangible assets was undertaken during the year.
The recoverable amount of each intangible asset was derived from the cumulative 90 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill and intangible assets continued pre-tax net earnings anticipated to be generated over the remaining useful economic life, discounted to present value using the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 13.0% per annum.
Cumulative net earnings associated with the fund management relationships intangible asset were derived from the annual operating profit contribution that would arise as a result of the remaining fund management relationships, adjusted for investment performance and investor attrition.
Cumulative net earnings associated with the brand name intangible asset were derived from the forecast annual royalties that would be earned as a result of the remaining assets under management, adjusted for investment performance and investor attrition.
Both intangible assets were determined to be impaired as a result of the recoverable amounts being lower than the carrying values at the date of the impairment test and consequently impaired.
A combined impairment charge of 11.0 million during the year FY2011 12: nil has been included within other expenses in the Groups consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Individual impairment charges in the year for the fund management relationships and the brand name intangible assets were 9.4 million FY2011 12: nil and 1.6 million FY2011 12: nil respectively.
The remaining amortisation period for fund management relationships is six years 30 June 2012: seven years.
Other intangible assets In addition, in order to incentivise Amundi, who were formerly a shareholder in Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. to retain existing AuM within the business and to further increase AuM, there is an incentive fee payable after three years tied to the level of such AuM at that time.
As the purpose of this is to benefit the Group going forward, a corresponding intangible asset was recognised.
During the year to 30 June 2013 there has been no downward adjustment to the net present value of the incentive fee payable to Amundi at the end of the agreement.
Consequently management have concluded that the associated intangible asset is not impaired.
No impairment charge FY2011 12: 1.2 million has been included within other expenses in the Groups consolidated statement of comprehensive income, reducing the carrying value of the intangible asset to its recoverable amount.
Other intangible assets are being amortised over a three-year period up to May 2014.
16 Property, plant and equipment 2013 2012 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and equipment equipment Group m m Cost At the beginning of the year 10.4 8.1 Additions 1.9 2.6 Disposals 1.2 0.3 At the end of the year 11.1 10.4 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the year 6.2 4.7 Depreciation charge for the year 2.4 1.6 Disposals 1.2 0.1 At the end of the year 7.4 6.2 Net book value at 30 June 3.7 4.2 2013 2012 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and equipment equipment Company m m Cost At the beginning of the year 6.8 5.5 Additions 0.7 1.3 At the end of the year 7.5 6.8 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the year 4.3 3.2 Depreciation charge for year 1.8 1.1 At the end of the year 6.1 4.3 Net book value at 30 June 1.4 2.5 92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill and intangible assets continued 17 Deferred acquisition costs 2013 pre-tax net earnings anticipated to be generated over the remaining useful economic life, discounted to present value using the 2012 Group m m Groups weighted average cost of capital of 13.0% per annum.
Cumulative net earnings associated with the fund management Cost relationships intangible asset were derived from the annual operating profit contribution that would arise as a result of the remaining fund management relationships, adjusted for investment performance and investor attrition.
Cumulative net earnings associated At the beginning of the year 14.3 14.4 with the brand name intangible asset were derived from the forecast annual royalties that would be earned as a result of the Deferred acquisition costs recovered 2.4 0.1 remaining assets under management, adjusted for investment performance and investor attrition.
At the end of the year 11.9 14.3 Both intangible assets were determined to be impaired as a result of the recoverable amounts being lower than the carrying values at the date of the impairment test and consequently impaired.
Accumulated charge A combined impairment charge of 11.0 million during the year FY2011 12: nil has been included within other expenses in the At the beginning of the year 9.6 7.5 Groups consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Individual impairment charges in the year for the fund management Charge for the year note 11 1.7 2.1 relationships and the brand name intangible assets were 9.4 million FY2011 12: nil and 1.6 million FY2011 12: nil respectively.
At the end of the year 11.3 9.6 The remaining amortisation period for fund management relationships is six years 30 June 2012: seven years.
Carrying value at the end of the year 0.6 4.7 Other intangible assets The deferred acquisition costs shown above are in respect of the launch of Ashmore Global Opportunities Limited AGOL, a publicly In addition, in order to incentivise Amundi, who were formerly a shareholder in Ashmore Equities Investment Management US listed closed-ended investment company incorporated in 2007, and are being charged to the Groups statement of comprehensive L. L. C. to retain existing AuM within the business and to further increase AuM, there is an incentive fee payable after three years income over seven years.
tied to the level of such AuM at that time.
As the purpose of this is to benefit the Group going forward, a corresponding intangible During the year, the Group recovered 2.4 million of deferred acquisition costs related to the managed wind down of AGOL which asset was recognised.
During the year to 30 June 2013 there has been no downward adjustment to the net present value of the was proposed and approved by AGOL shareholders in March 2013.
The wind down entitles the Group to receive a reimbursement incentive fee payable to Amundi at the end of the agreement.
Consequently management have concluded that the associated of certain launch costs which were borne at the time of AGOLs IPO in 2007. intangible asset is not impaired.
No impairment charge FY2011 12: 1.2 million has been included within other expenses in the Groups consolidated statement of comprehensive income, reducing the carrying value of the intangible asset to its recoverable 18 Trade and other receivables amount.
Group Company 16 Property, plant and equipment 2013 2013 2012 2012 m m m m 2013 2012 Fixtures, Fixtures, Current fittings and fittings and Trade debtors 71.0 55.8 1.8 2.6 equipment equipment Group m m Prepayments 2.8 2.1 1.7 1.0 Cost Loans due from subsidiaries 249.5 199.8 At the beginning of the year 10.4 8.1 Amounts due from subsidiaries 2.0 6.8 Additions 1.9 2.6 Other receivables 3.5 6.2 2.8 5.0 Disposals 1.2 0.3 77.3 64.1 257.8 215.2 At the end of the year 11.1 10.4 Non-current Loans due from subsidiaries 18.9 17.3 Accumulated depreciation 18.9 17.3 At the beginning of the year 6.2 4.7 Total trade and other receivables 77.3 64.1 276.7 232.5 Depreciation charge for the year 2.4 1.6 Group trade debtors include all billed and unbilled management fees due to the Group at 30 June 2013 in respect of investment Disposals 1.2 0.1 management services provided to that date.
At the end of the year 7.4 6.2 Net book value at 30 June 3.7 4.2 2013 2012 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and equipment equipment Company m m Cost At the beginning of the year 6.8 5.5 Additions 0.7 1.3 At the end of the year 7.5 6.8 Accumulated depreciation At the beginning of the year 4.3 3.2 Depreciation charge for year 1.8 1.1 At the end of the year 6.1 4.3 Net book value at 30 June 1.4 2.5 92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Deferred taxation Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and Company at year end are attributable to the following: 2013 2012 Other Other temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total Group m m m m m m Deferred tax assets 7.7 13.3 21.0 1.4 13.7 15.1 Deferred tax liabilities 3.0 3.0 1.0 1.0 4.7 13.3 18.0 0.4 13.7 14.1 2013 2012 Other Other temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total Company m m m m m m Deferred tax assets 0.4 13.3 13.7 13.7 13.7 Movement of deferred tax balances The movement in the deferred tax balances between the balance sheet dates has been reflected in equity or the statement of comprehensive income as follows: Other temporary Share-based differences payments Total Group m m m At 1 July 2011 1.6 17.9 16.3 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2.2 2.5 0.3 Charged to equity 0.2 1.7 1.9 At 30 June 2012 0.4 13.7 14.1 Credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 4.3 0.3 4.6 Charged to equity 0.7 0.7 At 30 June 2013 4.7 13.3 18.0 Other Share-based temporary payments differences Total Company m m m At 1 July 2011 17.9 17.9 Charged to the statement of comprehensive income 2.3 2.3 Charged to equity 1.9 1.9 At 30 June 2012 13.7 13.7 Credited to the statement of comprehensive income 0.4 0.3 0.7 Charged to equity 0.7 0.7 At 30 June 2013 0.4 13.3 13.7 Please refer to the details in note 12 in relation to future changes to the UK corporation tax rate.
The overall effect of a further tax reduction in this rate from 23% to 20%, if applied to the deferred tax balance above as at 30 June 2013, would be to further decrease the Group deferred tax assets by approximately 1.8 million and the Company deferred tax assets by 1.8 million.
94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Deferred taxation 20 Fair value of financial instruments Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and Company at year end are attributable to the following: There are no material differences between the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values at the balance sheet date.
2013 2012 Other Other Fair value hierarchy temporary Share-based temporary Share-based The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making the differences payments Total differences payments Total measurements.
Group m m m m m m Level 1: Valuation is based upon a quoted market price in an active market for an identical instrument.
Deferred tax assets 7.7 13.3 21.0 1.4 13.7 15.1 Level 2: Valuation techniques are based upon observable inputs, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Deferred tax liabilities 3.0 3.0 1.0 1.0 Level 3: Valuation techniques use significant unobservable inputs.
4.7 13.3 18.0 0.4 13.7 14.1 The fair value hierarchy of financial instruments which are carried at fair value at year end is summarised below: 2013 2012 2013 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Other Other m m m m m m m m temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total Financial assets Company m m m m m m Investment securities 40.7 9.0 49.7 27.8 32.8 60.6 Deferred tax assets 0.4 13.3 13.7 13.7 13.7 Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 104.9 104.9 49.9 49.9 Movement of deferred tax balances Available-for-sale financial assets 0.4 55.2 55.6 0.4 54.2 54.6 The movement in the deferred tax balances between the balance sheet dates has been reflected in equity or the statement of Non-current asset investments 9.1 9.1 5.6 5.6 comprehensive income as follows: Derivative financial instruments 0.5 0.5 Other 41.1 178.2 219.3 28.2 143.0 171.2 temporary Share-based differences payments Total Financial liabilities Group m m m Third-party interests in consolidated funds 9.0 3.8 12.8 4.8 5.7 10.5 At 1 July 2011 1.6 17.9 16.3 Derivative financial instruments 2.1 2.1 1.5 1.5 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2.2 2.5 0.3 Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale 26.9 26.9 15.1 15.1 Charged to equity 0.2 1.7 1.9 Contingent consideration 0.5 0.5 10.7 10.7 At 30 June 2012 0.4 13.7 14.1 9.0 32.8 0.5 42.3 4.8 22.3 10.7 37.8 Credited to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 4.3 0.3 4.6 Level 3 financial liabilities relate to contingent consideration payable in connection with the acquisition of Ashmore Equities Charged to equity 0.7 0.7 Investment Management US L. L. C. in 2011.
The movement and valuation techniques used to estimate its fair value is described At 30 June 2013 4.7 13.3 18.0 in note 26.
There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year FY2011 12: none.
Other There were no material unlisted investment securities requiring use of valuation techniques.
Share-based temporary payments differences Total Company m m m At 1 July 2011 17.9 17.9 Charged to the statement of comprehensive income 2.3 2.3 Charged to equity 1.9 1.9 At 30 June 2012 13.7 13.7 Credited to the statement of comprehensive income 0.4 0.3 0.7 Charged to equity 0.7 0.7 At 30 June 2013 0.4 13.3 13.7 Please refer to the details in note 12 in relation to future changes to the UK corporation tax rate.
94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Seed capital investments Seed capital investments represent interests taken up by the Group in funds for which the Group is the investment manager to provide initial scale and facilitate marketing of the funds to third-party investors.
The movements of seed capital investments and related items during the year ended 30 June 2013 are as follows: Investment Net securities Other Third-party non-current  to relating to interests in financial assets sale financial consolidated consolidated consolidated Non-current held-for-sale assets funds funds funds investments Group m m m m m m Carrying amount at 30 June 2011 46.2 41.4 3.5 Net transfers held-for-sale to available-for-sale 10.0 10.0 Net transfers held-for-sale to consolidated funds 32.4 36.1 3.8 7.5 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 31.0 3.2 24.5 3.0 2.1 Carrying amount at 30 June 2012 34.8 54.6 60.6 3.8 10.5 5.6 Net transfers held-for-sale to consolidated funds 25.2 29.3 0.7 4.8 Net transfers held-for-sale to available-for-sale 4.8 4.8 Net transfers consolidated funds to available-for-sale 23.6 55.0 2.0 33.4 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 73.2 27.4 14.8 0.7 30.9 3.5 Carrying amount at 30 June 2013 78.0 55.6 49.7 3.2 12.8 9.1 Relates to cash, derivatives and other assets contained in consolidated funds that are not investment securities.
a Non-current assets and non-current liabilities held-for-sale Where Group companies inject seed capital into funds operated and controlled by the Group and the Group is actively seeking to reduce its investment and it is considered highly probable that it will relinquish control within a year, the interests in the funds are treated as held-for-sale and are recognised as financial assets and liabilities held-for-sale.
During the year, six funds FY2011 12: three were seeded in this manner, met the above criteria and consequently the assets and liabilities of these funds were initially classified as held-for-sale.
The non-current assets and liabilities held-for-sale at 30 June 2013 were as follows: 2013 2012 m m Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 104.9 49.9 Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale 26.9 15.1 Seed capital investments classified as being held-for-sale 78.0 34.8 Investments held for less than a year cease to be classified as held-for-sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group.
A loss of control may happen either through sale of the investment and or dilution of the Groups holding.
When investments cease to be classified as held-for-sale they are classified as available-for-sale financial assets see below.
One such investment FY2011 12: two was transferred to available-for-sale assets after the Group reduced its interests following investment inflows from third parties.
There was no impact on net assets or profit or loss as a result of the reclassification.
If the fund remains under the control of the Group for more than one year from the original investment date it will cease to be classified as held-for-sale, and will be consolidated line-by-line after considering the proximity of loss of control and the extent to which consolidation of the fund on a line by line basis would be material to the presentation of the Groups financial statements.
During the year, two such funds FY2011 12: six with an aggregate carrying amount of 25.2 million FY2011 12: 32.4 million were transferred to consolidated funds.
There was no impact on net assets or profit or loss as a result of the transfer.
As the Group considers itself to have one segment refer to note 1, no additional segmental disclosure of held-for-sale assets or liabilities is applicable.
Gains and losses in relation to held-for-sale investments are included within finance income and expenses respectively refer to note 8.
96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Seed capital investments b Consolidated funds Consolidated funds represent seed capital investments where the Group has held its position for a period greater than one year and Seed capital investments represent interests taken up by the Group in funds for which the Group is the investment manager to its interest represents a controlling stake in the fund.
These funds are consolidated line by line.
provide initial scale and facilitate marketing of the funds to third-party investors.
The movements of seed capital investments and related items during the year ended 30 June 2013 are as follows: 2013 2012 m m Investment Net securities Other Third-party Investment securities 49.7 60.6 non-current  to relating to interests in Cash and cash equivalents 1.6 2.6 financial assets sale financial consolidated consolidated consolidated Non-current held-for-sale assets funds funds funds investments Net derivative financial instruments 0.3 Group m m m m m m Other 1.6 0.9 Carrying amount at 30 June 2011 46.2 41.4 3.5 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 12.8 10.5 Net transfers held-for-sale to available-for-sale 10.0 10.0 Consolidated seed capital investments 40.1 53.9 Net transfers held-for-sale to consolidated funds 32.4 36.1 3.8 7.5 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 31.0 3.2 24.5 3.0 2.1 Investment securities include listed and unlisted equities and debt securities.
Other includes trade receivables, trade payables and accruals.
Carrying amount at 30 June 2012 34.8 54.6 60.6 3.8 10.5 5.6 Included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is a net gain of 4.6 million FY2011 12: 0.5 million relating Net transfers held-for-sale to consolidated funds 25.2 29.3 0.7 4.8 to the Groups share of the results of the individual statements of comprehensive income for each of the consolidated funds.
This Net transfers held-for-sale to available-for-sale 4.8 4.8 includes finance income of 1.6 million FY2011 12: 1.3 million and 4.9 million gain FY2011 12: 0.4 million loss on investment securities offset by 1.2 million FY2011 12: 0.4 million allocated to third-party interests in consolidated funds and expenses of Net transfers consolidated funds to available-for-sale 23.6 55.0 2.0 33.4 0.7 million FY2011 12: nil.
Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 73.2 27.4 14.8 0.7 30.9 3.5 As of 30 June 2013, the Groups consolidated funds were domiciled in Brazil, Luxembourg and the United States.
Carrying amount at 30 June 2013 78.0 55.6 49.7 3.2 12.8 9.1 Relates to cash, derivatives and other assets contained in consolidated funds that are not investment securities.
c Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets held at fair value at 30 June 2013 comprised the following: a Non-current assets and non-current liabilities held-for-sale Where Group companies inject seed capital into funds operated and controlled by the Group and the Group is actively seeking to 2013 2012 m m reduce its investment and it is considered highly probable that it will relinquish control within a year, the interests in the funds are Equities listed 0.4 0.4 treated as held-for-sale and are recognised as financial assets and liabilities held-for-sale.
During the year, six funds FY2011 12: three were seeded in this manner, met the above criteria and consequently the assets and liabilities of these funds were initially Equity funds unlisted 10.6 3.0 classified as held-for-sale.
Debt funds unlisted 44.6 51.2 The non-current assets and liabilities held-for-sale at 30 June 2013 were as follows: Seed capital classified as available-for-sale 55.6 54.6 2013 2012 d Non-current asset investments m m Non-current asset investments relate to the Groups holding in closed-end funds and are classified as financial assets at fair value Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 104.9 49.9 through profit or loss.
Non-current financial liabilities held-for-sale 26.9 15.1 2013 2012 Seed capital investments classified as being held-for-sale 78.0 34.8 m m Non-current asset investments at fair value 9.1 5.6 Investments held for less than a year cease to be classified as held-for-sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group.
When investments cease to be Non-current asset investments relate to the Groups holding in closed-end funds and are classified as financial assets at fair value classified as held-for-sale they are classified as available-for-sale financial assets see below.
One such investment FY2011 12: two through profit or loss.
Fair value is assessed by taking account of the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise was transferred to available-for-sale assets after the Group reduced its interests following investment inflows from third parties.
as a result of additional investors subscribing to the fund where the final close of a fund has not occurred.
Included within finance income is 1.2 million FY2011 12: 0.7 million of gains on the Groups non-current asset investments.
96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Financial instrument risk management Group The Group is subject to strategic, business, investment, operational and treasury risks throughout its business as discussed in the Business Review.
This note discusses the Groups exposure to and management of the following principal risks which arise from financial instruments it uses: credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk.
Where the Group holds units in investment funds, classified as either held-for-sale, available-for-sale or non-current asset investment financial assets, the related financial instrument risk disclosures in the note below categorise exposures based on the Groups direct interest in those funds without looking through to the nature of underlying securities.
Risk management is the direct responsibility of the Groups senior management as noted in the Corporate Governance report on pages 44 to 46.
Capital management It is the Groups policy that all entities within the Group have sufficient capital to meet regulatory and working capital requirements and conducts regular reviews of its capital requirements relative to its capital resources.
As the Group is regulated by the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority FCA, it is required to maintain appropriate capital and perform regular calculations of capital requirements.
This includes development of an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, based upon the FCAs methodologies under the Capital Requirements Directive.
An overview of the ICAAP can be found on our website at www.
The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures covering the year to 30 June 2013 indicated that the Group had surplus capital of 453.6 million year to 30 June 2012: surplus of 381.8 million over the level of capital required to meet operational risks under a Pillar II assessment.
The objective of the assessment is to check that the Group has adequate capital to manage identified risks and the process includes conducting stress tests to identify capital and liquidity requirements under different future scenarios including a potential downturn.
All regulated entities with the Group have complied with regulatory requirements and filings that apply in the jurisdictions they operate.
Equity, as referred to in the Groups balance sheet, is the capital for the business.
Credit risk The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts when due.
Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management and the Groups Risk Management and Control team.
The Group has a counterparty and cash management policy in place which, in addition to other controls, restricts exposure to any single counterparty by setting exposure limits and requiring approval and diversification of counterparty banks and other financial institutions.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial assets subject to credit risk.
2013 2012 m Notes m Investment securities 21 49.7 60.6 Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 21 104.9 49.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 21 55.6 54.6 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 Trade and other receivables 18 77.3 64.1 Cash and cash equivalents 395.5 346.6 Total 683.0 576.3 Investment securities, derivative financial instruments, non-current financial assets held-for-sale and available-for-sale financial assets expose the Group to credit risk from various counterparties which is monitored and reviewed by the Group.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents, comprised of short-term deposits with banks and liquidity funds, are predominantly held with counterparties with credit ratings ranging from Ato AAAm as at 30 June 2013 30 June 2012: A to AAAm.
All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end 30 June 2012: none.
They include fee debtors that arise principally within the Groups investment management business.
They are monitored regularly and, historically, default levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and the client.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk in respect of fees owing from clients.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost.
In order to manage inherent liquidity risk there is a liquidity policy within the Group to ensure that there is sufficient access to funds to cover all forecast committed requirements for the next 12 months.
98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Financial instrument risk management The maturity profile of the Groups contractual undiscounted financial liabilities is as follows: Group At 30 June 2013 The Group is subject to strategic, business, investment, operational and treasury risks throughout its business as discussed in the More than Business Review.
This note discusses the Groups exposure to and management of the following principal risks which arise from Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m financial instruments it uses: credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk.
Where the Group holds units in investment funds, classified as either held-for-sale, available-for-sale or non-current asset investment financial assets, the Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 26.9 26.9 related financial instrument risk disclosures in the note below categorise exposures based on the Groups direct interest in those Third-party interests in consolidated funds 12.8 12.8 funds without looking through to the nature of underlying securities.
Derivative financial instruments 2.1 2.1 Risk management is the direct responsibility of the Groups senior management as noted in the Corporate Governance report on Non-current trade and other payables 0.5 pages 44 to 46.
Current trade and other payables 94.1 94.1 Capital management 135.9 135.9 It is the Groups policy that all entities within the Group have sufficient capital to meet regulatory and working capital requirements and conducts regular reviews of its capital requirements relative to its capital resources.
At 30 June 2012 More than As the Group is regulated by the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority FCA, it is required to maintain appropriate capital Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total and perform regular calculations of capital requirements.
This includes development of an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment m m m m Process ICAAP, based upon the FCAs methodologies under the Capital Requirements Directive.
An overview of the ICAAP can be Non-current liabilities held-for-sale 15.1 15.1 found on our website at www.
The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures covering the year to 30 June 2013 indicated that Third-party interests in consolidated funds 10.5 10.5 the Group had surplus capital of 453.6 million year to 30 June 2012: surplus of 381.8 million over the level of capital required to Derivative financial instruments 1.5 1.5 meet operational risks under a Pillar II assessment.
The objective of the assessment is to check that the Group has adequate capital to manage identified risks and the process includes conducting stress tests to identify capital and liquidity requirements under Non-current trade and other payables 5.8 5.8 different future scenarios including a potential downturn.
Current trade and other payables 87.1 87.1 All regulated entities with the Group have complied with regulatory requirements and filings that apply in the jurisdictions they operate.
114.2 5.8 120.0 Equity, as referred to in the Groups balance sheet, is the capital for the business.
Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30. Credit risk Interest rate risk The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in amounts when due.
Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management and the Groups Risk Management and Control The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain a reduction in interest revenue through adverse movements in team.
The Group has a counterparty and cash management policy in place which, in addition to other controls, restricts exposure to interest rates.
This relates to bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business.
The Group has a cash management policy which any single counterparty by setting exposure limits and requiring approval and diversification of counterparty banks and other financial requires management to monitor cash levels and returns within set parameters on a continuing basis.
The table Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective below lists financial assets subject to credit risk.
interest earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: 2013 2012 m Notes m Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits 2013 Investment securities 21 49.7 60.6 2012 % % Non-current financial assets held-for-sale 21 104.9 49.9 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.85 0.79 Available-for-sale financial assets 21 55.6 54.6 Derivative financial instruments 0.5 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Trade and other receivables 18 77.3 64.1 At 30 June 2013, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher or 50 basis points lower 30 June 2012: 50 basis Cash and cash equivalents 395.5 346.6 points higher or 50 basis points lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 1.5 million higher 1.5 million lower FY2011 12: 1.3 million higher 1.3 million lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash Total 683.0 576.3 balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the Investment securities, derivative financial instruments, non-current financial assets held-for-sale and available-for-sale financial assets model to calculate the effect on post-tax profits.
expose the Group to credit risk from various counterparties which is monitored and reviewed by the Group.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk from seed capital investments.
The following table provides a summary of the The Groups cash and cash equivalents, comprised of short-term deposits with banks and liquidity funds, are predominantly held Groups direct exposure to interest rate risk from investments held by the Group as investment securities in consolidated funds.
with counterparties with credit ratings ranging from Ato AAAm as at 30 June 2013 30 June 2012: A to AAAm.
Investment securities All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end 30 June 2012: none.
Fixed rate Floating rate Other Total They include fee debtors that arise principally within the Groups investment management business.
They are monitored regularly m m m m and, historically, default levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship As at 30 June 2013 49.7 49.7 between the Group and the client.
As at 30 June 2012 43.4 3.7 13.5 60.6 Liquidity risk The Group is indirectly exposed to interest rate risk from units in funds which invest in debt securities and the Group holds seed Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group cannot meet its obligations as they fall due or can only do so at a cost.
capital investments in those funds.
98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Financial instrument risk management continued Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups revenue is almost entirely denominated in US dollars, whilst the majority of the Groups costs are Sterling-based.
Consequently, the Group has an exposure to movements in the GBP USD exchange rate.
In addition, the Group operates globally which means that it may enter into contracts and other arrangements denominated in local currencies in various geographic areas.
The Group also holds a number of seed capital investments which are denominated mainly in either US dollars, Brazilian real or Indonesian rupiah.
The Groups policy is to hedge the Groups revenue by using a combination of forward foreign exchange contracts and options for up to two years forward.
The Group also sells US dollars at spot rates when opportunities arise.
The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to a 1.0% exchange movement in the US dollar, Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah, net of hedging activities.
2013 2012 Impact on Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact on before tax equity before tax equity Currency sensitivity test m m m m US dollar - 1% 2.9 2.7 1.1 1.8 Brazilian real - 1% 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 Indonesian rupiah -1% 0.5 0.4 n a n a Price risk Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes.
Seed capital The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in market prices in respect of seed capital investments.
Such price risk is borne by the Group directly through interests in available-for-sale and non-current asset seed capital investments or indirectly either through line by line consolidation of underlying financial performance and positions held in certain funds or potential impairments when fair values less costs to sell of seed investments held-for-sale are less than carrying amounts.
Details of seed capital investments held at year end are given in note 21.
The Group has well defined procedures governing the appraisal and approval as well monitoring the performance of seed capital investments.
At 30 June 2013, a 5% movement in the fair value of these investments would have had a 7.7 million FY2011 12: 7.3 million impact on net assets and impact on profit before tax would have been 4.9 million FY2011 12: 3.3 million.
Management fees The Group is also indirectly exposed to price risk in connection with the Groups management fees which are based on a percentage of value of AuM and fees based on performance.
Movements in market prices, exchange and interest rates could cause the AuM to fluctuate which in turn could affect fees earned.
Performance fee revenues could also be reduced in severe market conditions.
Management and performance fees are diversified across a range of investment themes and are not measurably correlated to any single market indices in Emerging Markets.
In addition, throughout Ashmores history, the policy of having funds with year ends staged throughout the financial year has meant that in periods of steep market decline, some performance fees have still been recorded.
The profitability impact is likely to be less than this, as cost mitigation actions would apply, including the reduction of the variable compensation paid to employees.
Based on the year end AuM of US$77.4 billion and the years average net management fee rate of 68bps, a 5% movement in assets under management would have a US$26.3 million impact on management fee revenues FY2011 12: based on assets under management of $63.7 billion and an average net management fee rate of 74bps, a 5% movement in assets under management would have had a US$23.6 million impact on management fee revenues.
Hedging activities The Group uses forward exchange contracts and options to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk.
These hedges, which have been assessed as effective cash flow hedges as at 30 June 2013, protect a proportion of the Groups revenue cash flows from foreign exchange movements and occur consistently throughout the year.
The cumulative fair value of the outstanding foreign exchange hedges liability at 30 June 2013 was 2.1 million 30 June 2012: 1.3 million and is included within the Groups derivative financial instrument liabilities.
100 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 100 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 2013 2012 22 Financial instrument risk management continued Fair value Fair value Foreign exchange risk Notional assets Notional assets Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes amount liabilities amount liabilities in foreign exchange rates.
m m m m Cash flow hedges The Groups revenue is almost entirely denominated in US dollars, whilst the majority of the Groups costs are Sterling-based.
Foreign exchange nil-cost option collars 89.4 1.3 73.8 0.7 Consequently, the Group has an exposure to movements in the GBP USD exchange rate.
Foreign exchange forward contracts 3.3 0.1 30.3 0.6 The Group also holds a number of seed capital investments which are denominated mainly in either US dollars, Brazilian real or 92.7 1.4 104.1 1.3 Indonesian rupiah.
The maturity profile of the Groups outstanding hedges is shown below.
The Groups policy is to hedge the Groups revenue by using a combination of forward foreign exchange contracts and options for Notional amount with maturity date m up to two years forward.
2013 2012 The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to a 1.0% exchange movement in the US dollar, Brazilian real and Indonesian rupiah, Forward Forward net of hedging activities.
Collars contracts Total Collars contracts Total 2013 Within 6 months 38.1 3.3 41.4 34.3 13.6 47.9 2012 Impact on Impact on 6 12 months 41.4 41.4 30.2 13.6 43.8 profit Impact on profit Impact on 12 months 9.9 9.9 9.3 3.1 12.4 before tax equity before tax equity Currency sensitivity test m m m m 89.4 3.3 92.7 73.8 30.3 104.1 US dollar - 1% 2.9 2.7 1.1 1.8 When hedges are assessed as effective, intrinsic value gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and Brazilian real - 1% 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 later reclassified to comprehensive income as the corresponding hedged cash flows crystallise.
Time value in relation to the Groups Indonesian rupiah -1% 0.5 0.4 n a n a hedges is excluded from being part of the hedging item and, as a result, the net unrealised loss related to the time value of the hedges is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year.
Price risk Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes.
A 0.4 million intrinsic loss FY2011 12: 0.1 million gain on the Groups hedges has been recognised through other comprehensive income and nil intrinsic value FY2011 12: nil was reclassified from equity to the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
Such price risk is borne by the Included within the realised and unrealised hedging loss of 1.2 million note 7 recognised at 30 June 2013 0.1 million gain Group directly through interests in available-for-sale and non-current asset seed capital investments or indirectly either through line at 30 June 2012 are: by line consolidation of underlying financial performance and positions held in certain funds or potential impairments when fair values a 0.5 million loss in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ending less costs to sell of seed investments held-for-sale are less than carrying amounts.
Details of seed capital investments held at year 30 June 2014 FY2011 12: 0.5 million loss in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the end are given in note 21. financial year ended 30 June 2013 : and The Group has well defined procedures governing the appraisal and approval as well monitoring the performance of seed capital a 0.7 million loss in respect of crystallised foreign exchange contracts FY2011 12: 0.6 million gain.
Company At 30 June 2013, a 5% movement in the fair value of these investments would have had a 7.7 million FY2011 12: 7.3 million The risk management processes of the Company including those relating to the specific risk exposures covered below are aligned impact on net assets and impact on profit before tax would have been 4.9 million FY2011 12: 3.3 million.
with those of the Group as a whole unless stated otherwise.
Management fees In addition, the risk definitions that apply to the Group are also relevant for the Company.
The Group is also indirectly exposed to price risk in connection with the Groups management fees which are based on a percentage Credit risk of value of AuM and fees based on performance.
Movements in market prices, exchange and interest rates could cause the AuM to The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists fluctuate which in turn could affect fees earned.
financial assets subject to credit risk by credit rating: Management and performance fees are diversified across a range of investment themes and are not measurably correlated to any 2013 2012 single market indices in Emerging Markets.
In addition, throughout Ashmores history, the policy of having funds with year ends m m staged throughout the financial year has meant that in periods of steep market decline, some performance fees have still been Cash and cash equivalents 271.7 210.6 recorded.
The profitability impact is likely to be less than this, as cost mitigation actions would apply, including the reduction of the Trade and other receivables 276.7 232.5 variable compensation paid to employees.
Total 548.4 443.1 Based on the year end AuM of US$77.4 billion and the years average net management fee rate of 68bps, a 5% movement in assets under management would have a US$26.3 million impact on management fee revenues FY2011 12: based on assets under The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise short-term deposits held with banks and liquidity funds which have credit management of $63.7 billion and an average net management fee rate of 74bps, a 5% movement in assets under management ratings ranging from A to AAAm as at 30 June 2013 30 June 2012: A to AAAm.
would have had a US$23.6 million impact on management fee revenues.
Hedging activities Liquidity risk The Group uses forward exchange contracts and options to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk.
These hedges, which have The contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to the Companys financial liabilities all fall due within one year.
been assessed as effective cash flow hedges as at 30 June 2013, protect a proportion of the Groups revenue cash flows from foreign exchange movements and occur consistently throughout the year.
The cumulative fair value of the outstanding foreign Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30. exchange hedges liability at 30 June 2013 was 2.1 million 30 June 2012: 1.3 million and is included within the Groups derivative financial instrument liabilities.
100 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 101 Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Financial instrument risk management continued Interest rate risk The principal interest rate risk for the Company is that it could sustain a reduction in interest revenue from bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business through adverse movements in interest rates.
Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the Companys balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits 2013 2012 % % Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.34 0.61 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
At 30 June 2013, if interest rates over the year had been 30 basis points higher 30 basis points lower 30 June 2012: 50 basis points higher 50 basis points lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 0.4 million higher 0.4 million lower FY2011 12: 0.6 million higher 0.6 million lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to calculate the effect on post-tax profits.
Foreign exchange risk The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk in respect of US dollar cash balances and primarily US dollar-denominated intercompany balances.
However, such risk is not hedged by the Company.
At 30 June 2013, if the US dollar had strengthened weakened by 10 cents against Sterling with all other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have increased decreased by 24.9 million 21.8 million respectively FY2011 12: increased decreased by 11.6 million 10.2 million.
23 Share capital Authorised share capital 2013 2012 2013 Nominal 2012 Nominal Number of value Number value Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 900,000,000 90900,000,000 90 Issued share capital allotted and fully paid 2013 2012 2013 Nominal 2012 Nominal Number of value Number value Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 712,740,804 71712,740,804 71 All the above ordinary shares represent equity of the Company and rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.
During the year, no FY2011 12: 543,633 ordinary shares were cancelled as part of an acquisition-related purchase price adjustment.
The nominal value of cancelled shares is credited to a capital redemption reserve which is not presented on the face of the consolidated balance sheet as it is fide minimis.
At 30 June 2013 there were 503,750 30 June 2012: 1,898,221 options in issue with contingent rights to the allotment of ordinary shares of 0.01p in the Company.
There were also equity-settled share awards issued under the Omnibus Plan totalling 28,339,002 30 June 2012: 25,691,454 shares that have release dates ranging from October 2013 to October 2017.
Further details are provided in note 10.
102 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 102 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 22 Financial instrument risk management continued 24 Own shares Interest rate risk The EBT was established to act as an agent to facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares in the Company with a view to The principal interest rate risk for the Company is that it could sustain a reduction in interest revenue from bank deposits held in the facilitating the recruitment and motivation of the employees of the Company.
As at the year end, the EBT owned 35,205,106 ordinary course of business through adverse movements in interest rates.
30 June 2012: 32,668,764 ordinary shares of 0.01p with a nominal value of 3,520 30 June 2012: 3,267 and shareholders funds are reduced by 115.8 million 30 June 2012: 88.9 million in this respect.
It is the intention of the Directors to make these shares Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the Companys balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective available to employees by way of sale through the share-based compensation plans.
The EBT is periodically funded by the Company interest earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: for these purposes.
Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits 25 Treasury shares 2013 2012 Treasury shares held by the Company % % 2013 2012 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.34 0.61 Group and Company Number m Number m Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Ashmore Group plc ordinary shares 5,368,331 6.9 5,368,331 6.9 At 30 June 2013, if interest rates over the year had been 30 basis points higher 30 basis points lower 30 June 2012: 50 basis points Reconciliation of treasury shares higher 50 basis points lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 0.4 million 2013 2012 higher 0.4 million lower FY2011 12: 0.6 million higher 0.6 million lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash Number Number balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the At the beginning and end of the year 5,368,331 5,368,331 model to calculate the effect on post-tax profits.
The market value of treasury shares was 18.4 million 30 June 2012: 18.7 million at year end.
Foreign exchange risk The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk in respect of US dollar cash balances and primarily US dollar-denominated 26 Trade and other payables intercompany balances.
Group Group Company Company At 30 June 2013, if the US dollar had strengthened weakened by 10 cents against Sterling with all other variables held constant, 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m profit before tax for the year would have increased decreased by 24.9 million 21.8 million respectively FY2011 12: Current increased decreased by 11.6 million 10.2 million.
Trade and other payables 45.5 29.6 40.3 26.3 23 Share capital Accruals and deferred income 48.1 52.6 5.3 18.4 Authorised share capital Amounts due to subsidiaries 0.2 1.8 2013 2012 Contingent consideration 0.5 4.9 2013 Nominal 2012 Nominal Number of value Number value 94.1 87.1 45.8 46.5 Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 Non-current Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 900,000,000 90900,000,000 90 Contingent consideration 5.8 Issued share capital allotted and fully paid Other non-current liabilities 2013 2012 5.8 2013 Nominal 2012 Nominal Number of value Number value Total trade and other payables 94.1 92.9 45.8 46.5 Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 712,740,804 71712,740,804 71 All the above ordinary shares represent equity of the Company and rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.
102 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Trade and other payables continued Contingent consideration The Groups contingent consideration liabilities comprise amounts payable in future periods subject to achievement of agreed milestone targets by the relevant maturity date of 31 May 2014.
The total contingent consideration liability of 0.5 million is considered to be payable in less than one year and classified as a current liability.
Movement of contingent consideration Contingent consideration m At 30 June 2011 32.0 Net present value discount unwind 4.1 Fair value adjustment 16.8 Consideration that crystallised during the year 9.5 FX revaluation 0.9 At 30 June 2012 10.7 Net present value discount unwind 0.9 Fair value adjustment 10.8 Consideration that crystallised during the year FX revaluation 0.3 At 30 June 2013 0.5 The Groups contingent consideration liabilities were adjusted down at the end of the year, in line with accounting standards, to reflect its fair value.
Such a movement in fair value was driven principally by the levels of equities AuM managed by Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. at 30 June 2013, compared with the relatively higher levels forecast when the fair values of the contingent consideration liabilities were established.
The fall in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities at 30 June 2013 resulted in a downward adjustment 10.8 million FY2011 12: 16.8 million at that date.
The reduction of the discounted liability, the corresponding entry to which is reported within finance income, reflects a reduction in the Groups expected payments as a result of performance against contingent consideration milestones to date.
The potential undiscounted value of future annual payments that the Group could be required to make under contingent consideration arrangements is between nil and a maximum of 40.7 million US$61.9 million 30 June 2012: nil and 65.3 million US$102.5 million.
In addition to the annual earn-out payments, the Group could be required to pay a further 44.4 million US$67.5 million FY2011 12: 17.1 million US$26.9 million as a result of catch up provisions relating to prior periods.
The fair value of the contingent consideration was calculated by reference to forecast management fee earnings over the remaining period to 31 May 2014 and discounted using the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 13.0%.
The assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis to assess the potential sensitivities and impact on the Group.
The undiscounted value of the estimated payments was 0.6 million US$0.9 million 30 June 2012: 12.5 million US$ 19.7 million.
At maturity, contingent consideration will be settled using a combination of cash and new Ashmore ordinary shares at the prevailing market price.
The current estimate of the undiscounted contingent consideration is all due to be settled in cash, with no further option for Ashmore to settle in equity 30 June 2012: 3.0 million US$4.7 million of the then estimate of the undiscounted contingent consideration amount could be settled with equity.
The discount applied to the contingent consideration will unwind until the time when the final payment is made in May 2014.
It is managements judgement that a 10.0% movement in key assumptions would not materially impact the value of contingent consideration liabilities.
104 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 104 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Trade and other payables continued 27 Subsidiaries Contingent consideration Operating subsidiaries The Groups contingent consideration liabilities comprise amounts payable in future periods subject to achievement of agreed Movements in investments in subsidiaries during the year were as follows: milestone targets by the relevant maturity date of 31 May 2014.
The total contingent consideration liability of 0.5 million is 2013 2012 considered to be payable in less than one year and classified as a current liability.
Company m m Movement of contingent consideration Cost Contingent At the beginning and end of the year 20.1 20.1 consideration m In the opinion of the directors, the following subsidiary undertakings principally affected the Groups results or financial position.
At 30 June 2011 32.0 A full list of subsidiary undertakings at 30 June 2013 will be annexed to the next annual return of Ashmore Group plc filed with the Registrar of Companies.
Net present value discount unwind 4.1 Fair value adjustment 16.8 Country of incorporation formation % of equity Consideration that crystallised during the year 9.5 and principal place of shares held by Name operation the Group FX revaluation 0.9 Ashmore Investments UK Limited England 100.00 At 30 June 2012 10.7 Ashmore Investment Management Limited England 100.00 Net present value discount unwind 0.9 Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey 100.00 Fair value adjustment 10.8 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore 100.00 Consideration that crystallised during the year AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius 55.00 FX revaluation 0.3 Ashmore Investments Brasil Limited Guernsey 91.25 At 30 June 2013 0.5 Ashmore Investments India Limited Mauritius 100.00 The Groups contingent consideration liabilities were adjusted down at the end of the year, in line with accounting standards, to Ashmore Investments Turkey NV Netherlands 91.20 reflect its fair value.
Such a movement in fair value was driven principally by the levels of equities AuM managed by Ashmore Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA 100.00 Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. at 30 June 2013, compared with the relatively higher levels forecast when the fair PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia formerly PT Buana Megah Abadi Indonesia 73.91 values of the contingent consideration liabilities were established.
Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Spain 100.00 The fall in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities at 30 June 2013 resulted in a downward adjustment 10.8 million Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan 100.00 FY2011 12: 16.8 million at that date.
The reduction of the discounted liability, the corresponding entry to which is reported Ashmore Investment Consulting Beijing Co. Limited China 100.00 within finance income, reflects a reduction in the Groups expected payments as a result of performance against contingent consideration milestones to date.
Ashmore EMM Holding Corp. USA 100.00 Ashmore EMM L. L. C. USA 63.63 The potential undiscounted value of future annual payments that the Group could be required to make under contingent consideration arrangements is between nil and a maximum of 40.7 million US$61.9 million 30 June 2012: nil and With effect from 1 July 2013, the names of Ashmore EMM Holding Corp. and Ashmore EMM L. L. C. changed to Ashmore Equities Holding Corporation and Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C. respectively.
In addition to the annual earn-out payments, the Group could be required to pay a further 44.4 million US$67.5 million FY2011 12: 17.1 million US$26.9 million as a result of catch up provisions relating to prior Consolidated funds periods.
The fair value of the contingent consideration was calculated by reference to forecast management fee earnings over The following investment funds, over which the Group is deemed to have control, have been consolidated into the Groups results.
the remaining period to 31 May 2014 and discounted using the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 13.0%.
The Country of % of net assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis to assess the potential sensitivities and impact on the Group.
The undiscounted incorporation formation assets value value of the estimated payments was 0.6 million US$0.9 million 30 June 2012: 12.5 million US$ 19.7 million.
At maturity, and principal place of held by the Name Type of fund operation Group contingent consideration will be settled using a combination of cash and new Ashmore ordinary shares at the prevailing market price.
The current estimate of the undiscounted contingent consideration is all due to be settled in cash, with no further option Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Fund Equity USA 65.7% for Ashmore to settle in equity 30 June 2012: 3.0 million US$4.7 million of the then estimate of the undiscounted contingent Ashmore Emerging Markets Small-Cap Equity Fund Equity USA 73.0% consideration amount could be settled with equity.
The discount applied to the contingent consideration will unwind until the Ashmore Brasil Aes FIC FIA Equity Brazil 72.3% time when the final payment is made in May 2014.
Ashmore SICAV 3 Multi Strategy Fund Multi-strategy Luxembourg 82.7% It is managements judgement that a 10.0% movement in key assumptions would not materially impact the value of contingent consideration liabilities.
104 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 105 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures Group Movements in investments in associates and joint ventures during the year were as follows: 2013 2012 Associates Joint ventures Total Associates Joint ventures Total m m m m m m At the beginning of the year 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 Additions 9.9 9.9 Share of profit 0.3 0.4 0.1 Distributions 0.3 0.3 At the end of the year 2.3 9.5 11.8 2.3 2.3 During the year, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire a 49% interest in a fund management joint venture with Central China Securities Co. Ltd. in China.
Under the terms of the agreement and upon being granted the required approvals by the China Securities Regulatory Commission and other relevant government authorities, the Group contributed its share of the initial capitalisation, equivalent to 9.9 million, by January 2013.
The list of associates and joint ventures in which the Group holds interests at year end are shown below.
Associates and joint ventures at 30 June 2013 Country of incorporation formation and principal % of equity shares Name Type Nature of business place of operation held by the Group VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Associate Investment management Russia 50% Everbright Ashmore Associate Investment management China 30% Central China Securities Co. Limited Joint venture Investment management China 49% The associates and the joint venture are unlisted.
Associates The summarised aggregate financial information on associates is shown below.
2013 2012 Group m m Total assets 4.7 4.4 Total liabilities 1.4 1.4 Net assets 3.4 3.0 Groups share of net assets 1.1 0.9 Revenue for the year to 30 June 2013 4.9 3.2 Profit for the year to 30 June 2013 1.1 0.4 Groups share of profit for the year 0.3 0.1 The carrying value of the investments in associates include attributable goodwill that arose on acquisition of the associates.
Although the Groups share of net tangible assets of the associates is currently below the aggregate carrying value of the associates reflected on the consolidated balance sheet, the Group has considered that this position, which has arisen as the associates progress through initial establishment phases, is temporary.
No permanent impairment is believed to exist relating to the associates.
The Group has undrawn capital commitments of 6.4 million 30 June 2012: 9.6 million to investment funds managed by the associates.
Further details are provided in note 30.
106 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 106 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures Joint ventures Summarised financial information on the Groups share in the joint venture is shown below: Group Movements in investments in associates and joint ventures during the year were as follows: 2013 2012 m m 2013 2012 Current assets 5.7 Associates Joint ventures Total Associates Joint ventures Total m m m m m m Non-current assets 0.1 At the beginning of the year 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 Current liabilities 0.1 Additions 9.9 9.9 Non-current liabilities Share of profit 0.3 0.4 0.1 Total equity 5.7 Distributions 0.3 0.3 At the end of the year 2.3 9.5 11.8 2.3 2.3 Income 0.4 Expenses 0.8 During the year, the Group entered into an agreement to acquire a 49% interest in a fund management joint venture with Central Loss for the year 0.4 China Securities Co. Ltd. in China.
Under the terms of the agreement and upon being granted the required approvals by the China Securities Regulatory Commission and other relevant government authorities, the Group contributed its share of the initial 29 Related party transactions capitalisation, equivalent to 9.9 million, by January 2013.
Related parties of the Group include key management personnel, close family members of key management personnel, subsidiaries, The list of associates and joint ventures in which the Group holds interests at year end are shown below.
associates, joint ventures, Ashmore Funds, the EBT and the Ashmore Foundation.
Associates and joint ventures at 30 June 2013 Key management personnel Group and Company Country of incorporation The compensation paid to or payable to key management for employee services is shown below: formation and principal % of equity shares Name Type Nature of business place of operation held by the Group 2013 2012 m m m VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Associate Investment management Russia 50% Short-term employee benefits 2.7 2.7 Everbright Ashmore Associate Investment management China 30% Defined contribution pension costs Central China Securities Co. Limited Joint venture Investment management China 49% Share-based payment benefits 1.7 2.6 The associates and the joint venture are unlisted.
4.4 5.2 Associates Share-based payment benefits represent the fair value charge to the statement of comprehensive income of share awards.
The summarised aggregate financial information on associates is shown below.
Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the Remuneration report on pages 54 to 66.
2013 2012 Group m m During the year, there were no other transactions entered into with key management personnel FY2011 12: none.
Aggregate key Total assets 4.7 4.4 management personnel interests in consolidated funds at 30 June 2013 was 3.5 million 30 June 2012: nil.
Total liabilities 1.4 1.4 Transactions with subsidiaries Company Net assets 3.4 3.0 Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are shown below: Groups share of net assets 1.1 0.9 2013 2012 Revenue for the year to 30 June 2013 4.9 3.2 m m Profit for the year to 30 June 2013 1.1 0.4 Transactions during the year Groups share of profit for the year 0.3 0.1 Management fees received 79.1 65.4 Net dividends received 196.7 194.8 The carrying value of the investments in associates include attributable goodwill that arose on acquisition of the associates.
Although Loans given to subsidiaries 51.3 96.1 the Groups share of net tangible assets of the associates is currently below the aggregate carrying value of the associates reflected on the consolidated balance sheet, the Group has considered that this position, which has arisen as the associates progress through Amounts receivable or payable to subsidiaries are disclosed in notes 18 and 26. initial establishment phases, is temporary.
Transactions with Ashmore Funds Group The Group has undrawn capital commitments of 6.4 million 30 June 2012: 9.6 million to investment funds managed by During the year, the Group received 337.0 million gross management fees and performance fees FY2011 12: 270.4 million from the associates.
the 75 funds FY2011 12: 72 funds it manages and which are classified as related parties.
As at 30 June the Group has receivables due from funds of 57.6 million 30 June 2012: 50.3 million.
106 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Related party transactions continued Transactions with the EBT Group and Company The EBT, which acts as an agent for the purpose of the employee share-based compensation plans, has been provided a loan facility to allow it to acquire Ashmore shares in order to satisfy outstanding unvested shares awards.
The EBT is included within the results of the Group and the Company.
As at year end the loan outstanding was 112.7 million 30 June 2012: 82.7 million.
Transaction with the Ashmore Foundation Group and Company The Ashmore Foundation is a related party to the Group.
The Foundation was set up to provide financial grants to worthwhile causes within the Emerging Markets geographies in which Ashmore operates with a view to giving back into the countries and communities in which the Group invests and which contribute to Ashmores income and profitability.
The Group donated 0.1 million to the Foundation during the year FY2011 12: 0.1 million.
30 Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group and Company have entered into certain property leases.
The leases have no escalation clauses or renewal or purchase options, and no restrictions imposed on them.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows: Group 2013 2012 m m Within 1 year 2.9 2.9 Between 1 and 5 years 8.5 9.2 Later than 5 years 6.7 7.9 18.1 20.0 Company 2013 2012 m m Within 1 year 1.2 1.2 Between 1 and 5 years 4.6 4.6 Later than 5 years 6.3 7.5 12.1 13.3 Operating lease expenses are disclosed in note 11.
Undrawn investment commitments 2013 2012 m m VTBC-Ashmore Real Estate Partners I, L. P. 3.4 3.4 Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund 3.0 6.2 Ashmore I FCP Colombia Infrastructure Fund 4.9 8.8 Company The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling 94.5 million 30 June 2012: 31.3 million to support their investment activities but has no investment commitments of its own 30 June 2012: none.
31 Post-balance sheet events There were no post-balance sheet events that required adjustment of or disclosure in the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2013.
108 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 108 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic o Strategic ov vervie erview w PPerformance erformance Govern Governanceance Financial stat Financial state ements ments Notes to the financial statements continued 29 Related party transactions continued 32 Accounting estimates and judgements Transactions with the EBT Group and Company Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements are regularly evaluated and are based upon managements The EBT, which acts as an agent for the purpose of the employee share-based compensation plans, has been provided a loan facility assessment of current and future events.
The principal estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the carrying to allow it to acquire Ashmore shares in order to satisfy outstanding unvested shares awards.
The EBT is included within the results amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
of the Group and the Company.
Goodwill Transaction with the Ashmore Foundation Group and Company The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets annually for impairment.
The recoverable amount is determined based upon value in The Ashmore Foundation is a related party to the Group.
The Foundation was set up to provide financial grants to worthwhile causes use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangibles within the Emerging Markets geographies in which Ashmore operates with a view to giving back into the countries and communities on the Groups balance sheet at 30 June 2013 was 84.3 million 30 June 2012: 98.1 million.
Management considers that in which the Group invests and which contribute to Ashmores income and profitability.
The Group donated 0.1 million to the reasonable possible changes in any of the key assumptions applied would not cause the carrying value of goodwill to materially Foundation during the year FY2011 12: 0.1 million.
Performance fees 30 Commitments The Group assesses the recognition of performance fees to determine whether receipt of the fees is considered probable and Operating lease commitments the amount reliable.
The assessment is made using managements judgement of the circumstances relevant to each performance The Group and Company have entered into certain property leases.
The leases have no escalation clauses or renewal or purchase fee entitlement.
options, and no restrictions imposed on them.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases fall due as follows: There were no outstanding performance fees receivable at 30 June 2013 30 June 2012: none.
Group Earnout arrangements The Group assesses the expected payments to be made under earnout arrangements to determine whether the estimates are 2013 2012 m m reasonable based on current information.
The assessment is made using managements judgement of the likelihood of the Within 1 year 2.9 2.9 conditions of the earnout being met taking into account the revenue earning capability of the underlying AuM.
The fair value of the contingent consideration is then calculated by reference to those estimates, weighted according to managements estimates of their Between 1 and 5 years 8.5 9.2 probabilities and discounted using the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
The combined liability of all earnout arrangements Later than 5 years 6.7 7.9 on the Groups balance sheet at 30 June 2013 was 0.5 million 30 June 2012: 10.7 million refer to note 26.
18.1 20.0 Contingent consideration Company A number of assumptions are made in deriving the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration, including assumptions around future net management fee margins, net subscriptions, market performance and the average cost of capital.
While the Group 2013 2012 m m believes that a set of prudent assumptions and estimates have been used that best reflect current market conditions, there remains a degree of uncertainty.
In the event that future results or revised assumptions contribute to an upward revision in the contingent Within 1 year 1.2 1.2 consideration, the reduction recognised during the period, reported within finance income, could be partially or fully reversed.
Between 1 and 5 years 4.6 4.6 Later than 5 years 6.3 7.5 12.1 13.3 Operating lease expenses are disclosed in note 11.
Undrawn investment commitments 2013 2012 m m VTBC-Ashmore Real Estate Partners I, L. P. 3.4 3.4 Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund 3.0 6.2 Ashmore I FCP Colombia Infrastructure Fund 4.9 8.8 It is possible that this document could or may contain forward looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate Company only to historical or current facts.
Forward looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling 94.5 million 30 June 2012: 31.3 million to support plan, goal, believe, will, may, should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.
their investment activities but has no investment commitments of its own 30 June 2012: none.
Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown 31 Post-balance sheet events risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, to There were no post-balance sheet events that required adjustment of or disclosure in the financial statements for the year ended differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements.
There are several factors that could cause actual 30 June 2013. results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements are changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions.
The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward looking statement contained within this document, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
108 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 109 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 109
