276 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Risk and capital management there remains some uncertainty over the final capital impact on Risk management objectives the Group.
As a global insurance group, risk management is at the heart of what we do and is the source of value creation as well as a vital Risk profile form of control.
It is an integral part of maintaining financial The types of risk to which the Group is exposed have not stability for our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
changed significantly over the year and remain credit, market, Our sustainability and financial strength are underpinned by insurance, asset management, liquidity, operational and an effective risk management process which helps us identify reputational risks as described in note 58 of the IFRS financial major risks to which we may be exposed, establish appropriate statements.
controls and take mitigating actions for the benefit of our Reflecting Avivas objective of building financial strength and customers and investors.
The Groups risk strategy is to invest its reducing capital volatility, the Group continued to take steps to available capital to optimise the balance between return and risk amend its risk profile, in particular credit risk exposure, whilst maintaining an appropriate level of economic i. e. risksuccessfully completing a number of management actions in based capital and regulatory capital in accordance with our risk progress at the 2012 year-end.
These include the completion of appetite.
Consequently, our risk management objectives are to: the sale of the Groups US subsidiary and the continued net sellEmbed rigorous risk management throughout the business, down of exposures to Italian and Spanish sovereign debt and based on setting clear risk appetites and staying within European financial institutions offset by an increase in market these: values.
Restrictions on non-domestic investment in sovereign Allocate capital where it will make the highest returns on and corporate debt from Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain a risk-adjusted basis: and remain in place and balance sheet volatility was further reduced Meet the expectations of our customers, investors and through the sale of the Groups remaining stake in Delta Lloyd regulators that we will maintain sufficient capital surpluses in January 2013.
As described in note 58 a number of foreign to meet our liabilities even if a number of extreme risks exchange, credit and equity hedges are also in place.
actions have reduced the Groups credit and equity exposure, reflecting a broader move towards a more balanced risk profile, Avivas risk management framework has been designed and and enabling the Group to accept other credit risks offering implemented to support these objectives.
The key elements of better risk adjusted returns while remaining within appetite.
our risk management framework comprise our risk appetite: risk In February 2013, the Group took action to improve its governance, including risk policies and business standards, risk access to dividends from the Groups insurance and asset oversight committees and roles & responsibilities: and the management businesses by undertaking a corporate processes we use to identify, measure, manage, monitor and restructuring whereby Aviva Group Holdings AGH has report IMMMR risks, including the use of our risk models and purchased from Aviva Insurance Limited AIL its interest in the stress and scenario testing.
These elements are expanded in the majority of its overseas businesses.
This resulted in an interIFRS Financial statements note 58. company loan of 5.8 billion from AIL to AGH to fund the purchase.
At 31 December 2013 the loan balance had been Principal risks and uncertainties reduced by 1.0 billion to 4.8 billion.
At the end of February In accordance with the requirements of the FCA Handbook 2014, the balance of the loan stood at 4.1 billion.
8 we provide a description of the principal risks and We have agreed with the Board of the UK General Insurance uncertainties facing the Group here and in note 58.
Our Company AIL an appropriate target for the long term level of disclosures covering risks relating to our business in line with the internal loan between a Group Holding Company AGH reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Commission and AIL.
That level has been set such that AIL places no reliance SEC provide more detail and can be found in the shareholder on the loan to meet its stressed insurance liabilities assessed on information section Risks relating to our business.
Our prudential regulators, PRA, agree with this approach.
The effect of this would be to reduce the internal Risk environment loan balance from its current level of 4.1 billion to Financial market conditions during 2013 were more benign approximately 2.2 billion.
We will complete this reduction by than recent years past, benefiting from the maintenance of the end of 2015. expansionary monetary policies followed by central banks across In 2013 the Group made significant progress in completing a number of economies.
While some but not all western its strategy set out in 2012 of focusing on fewer businesses, as a economies are beginning to grow strongly, high levels of debt result of the successful completion of the sales of our US will continue to act as a brake on growth and the low interest business, the Romanian pensions business, Aviva Russia, and our rate environment compared to historic norms is likely to persist stake in the Malaysian joint venture CIMB and the agreed sale in the immediate future at least.
There are, however, still several pending regulatory approval of our stake in Eurovita.
The sources of macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty, which process of exiting these non-core businesses has reduced the have the potential to depress economic growth and cause amount of the Groups capital employed in less economically financial market volatility such as the potential for adverse profitable areas, decreased balance sheet volatility and required consequences from the removal of quantitative easing, capital, and will allow capital to be re-employed in businesses negotiations over the US debt ceiling and political impasse in that enhance the Groups return on risk based capital.
As a result of the sale of businesses in particular the US, During the year the Group was designated a Global the Groups future earnings have been reduced and the tangible Systemically Important Insurer G-SII, which brings the Group net asset value of the Group has fallen, resulting in an IFRS within scope of the policy requirements issued by the 23 leverage ratio of close to 50%.
We have plans in place to International Association of Insurance Supervisors IAIS, improve earnings through managing the deployment of capital including the development by July 2014 of a Systemic Risk to maximise return and expense reduction though clearly Management Plan, the development of recovery and resolution execution risk remains.
These additional earnings, combined plans and additional loss absorbency capital requirements from with higher retained profits, should enable us to reduce our January 2019, if the Group remains a G-SII.
external IFRS leverage ratio to 40% in the medium term and It is now likely that Solvency II will be implemented on reduce internal leverage.
1 January 2016, following political agreement in November 2013.
Until all of the relevant Solvency II regulation is finalised, 23 IFRS tangible capital employed External debt including preference shares and direct capital instruments DCI Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 277 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Low interest rate environment investment returns.
The asset portfolio is invested primarily in fixed We are required to disclose the impact of the continued low income securities and the reduction in interest rates in recent years interest rate environment on our operations.
has reduced the investment component of profit.
The portfolio Some of the Groups products, principally participating investment yield and average total invested assets in our general contracts, expose us to the risk that changes in interest rates will insurance and health business are set out in the table below.
impact on profits through a change in the interest spread the difference between the amounts that we are required to pay Portfolio Average investment assets under the contracts and the investment income we are able to 1 yield m earn on the investments supporting our obligations under those 2011 3.9% 18,978 contracts.
The primary markets where Aviva is exposed to this 2012 3.7% 18,802 2013 3.1% 18,352 risk are the UK, France and Italy.
1 Before realised and unrealised gains and losses and investment expenses The low interest rate environment in a number of markets around the world has resulted in our current reinvestment yields The nature of the business means that prices in certain being lower than the overall current portfolio yield, primarily for our circumstances can be increased to maintain overall profitability.
investments in fixed income securities and commercial mortgage This is subject to the competitive environment in each market.
Although we think it is reasonably likely that interest rates To the extent that there are further falls in interest rates the will rise, we still anticipate that they may remain below historical investment yield would be expected to decrease further in averages for some time.
Investing activity will continue to decrease future periods.
the portfolio yield as long as market yields remain below the current Further information on the Groups sensitivity to a reduction portfolio level.
We expect the decline in portfolio yield will result in in interest rates is included in the sensitivity analysis in note 58 lower net investment income in future periods.
of the IFRS Financial Statements.
This analysis shows an initial Certain of the Groups product lines, such as protection, are not benefit to profit before tax and shareholders equity from a 1% significantly sensitive to interest rate or market movements.
For decrease in interest rates due to the increase in market value of unit-linked business, the shareholder margins emerging are typically the backing fixed income securities.
However, in subsequent a mixture of annual management fees and risk expense charges.
years the reduction in portfolio yield would result in lower net Risk and expense margins will be largely unaffected by low interest investment income.
Annual management fees may increase in the short term as the move towards low interest rates increases the value of unit Capital management funds.
However, in the medium term, unit funds will grow at a Capital management objectives lower rate which will reduce fund charges.
For the UK annuities The primary objective of capital management is to optimise the business interest rate exposure is mitigated by closely matching the balance between return and risk, whilst maintaining economic duration of liabilities with assets of the same duration.
and regulatory capital in accordance with risk appetite.
Avivas The UK participating business includes contracts with capital and risk management objectives are closely interlinked, features such as guaranteed surrender values, guaranteed and support the dividend policy and earnings per share growth, annuity options, and minimum surrender and maturity values.
whilst also recognising the critical importance of protecting These liabilities are managed through duration matching of policyholder and other stakeholder interests.
assets and liabilities and the use of derivatives, including Overall capital risk appetite, which is reviewed and approved swaptions.
As a result, the Groups exposure to sustained low by the Aviva Board, is set and managed with reference to the interest rates on this portfolio is not material.
The Groups key requirements of a range of different stakeholders including exposure to low interest rates arises through its other shareholders, policyholders, regulators and rating agencies.
Risk participating contracts, principally in Italy and France.
Some of appetite is expressed in relation to a number of key capital and these contracts also include features such as guaranteed risk measures, and includes an economic capital risk appetite of minimum bonuses, guaranteed investment returns and holding sufficient capital resources to enable the Group to meet guaranteed surrender values.
In a low interest rate environment its liabilities in extreme adverse scenarios, on an ongoing basis, there is a risk that the yield on assets might not be sufficient to calibrated at a level consistent with a AA range credit rating.
For certain of its participating contracts the Group is able to amend guaranteed crediting rates.
Our In managing capital we seek to: ability to lower crediting rates may be limited by competition, maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial strength in bonus mechanisms and contractual arrangements.
accordance with risk appetite, to support new business Details of material guarantees and options are given in note growth and satisfy the requirements of our regulators and 43 of the IFRS financial statements.
In addition, the following other stakeholders giving both our customers and table, which includes amounts held for sale, summarises the shareholders assurance of our financial strength: weighted average minimum guaranteed crediting rates and manage our overall debt to equity structure to enhance our weighted average book value yields on assets as at 31 returns to shareholders, subject to our capital risk appetite and December 2013 for our Italian and French participating balancing the requirements of the range of stakeholders: contracts, where the Groups key exposure to sustained low retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity, interest rates arises.
including significant unutilised committed credit facilities and access to a range of capital markets: Weighted average Weighted allocate capital across the Group, to drive value adding minimum average Participating guaranteed book value contract growth through optimising risk and return: and crediting yield on liabilities declare dividends with reference to factors including growth rate assets m in cash flows and earnings.
France 0.78% 3.99% 63,407 Italy 2.21% 3.80% 11,246 1 Other N A N A 41,073 In line with these objectives, the capital generated and invested Total N A N A 115,726 by the Groups businesses and its conversion to cash is a key 1 Other includes UK participating business management focus.
Operating capital generation, which measures net capital generated after taking into account capital Profit before tax on General Insurance and Health Insurance invested in new business before the impact of non-operating business is generally a mixture of insurance, expense and items is a core regulatory capital based management 278 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual report and accounts 2013 performance metric used across the Group.
This is embedded Regulatory capital Group European Insurance Groups Directive in the Groups business planning process and other primary internal performance and management information processes.
UK life Other funds business 2013 2012 Capital is measured and managed on a number of different bn bn bn bn bases.
These are discussed further in the following sections.
Insurance Groups Directive IGD capital resources 5.8 8.6 14.4 14.4 Accounting basis: Less: capital resources requirement 5.8 5.0 10.8 10.6 Capital employed by segment and financing of capital Insurance Group Directive IGD The table below shows how our capital, on an IFRS basis, excess solvency 3.6 3.6 3.8 is deployed by segment and how that capital is funded.
Cover over EU minimum calculated excluding UK life funds 1.7 times 1.7 times 2013 2012 m m Long-term savings 11,224 11,429 The EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD regulatory capital General insurance and health 5,986 5,949 solvency surplus has decreased by 0.2 billion since 31 Fund management 237 225 1 Corporate and Other business 1,305 1,471 December 2012 to 3.6 billion.
The key movements over the United States 367 period are set out in the following table: Total capital employed 16,142 16,499 bn Financed by: IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2012 3.8 Equity shareholders funds 7,964 8,204 Operating profits net of other income and expenses 1.2 Non-controlling interests 1,471 1,574 Dividends and appropriations 0.5 Direct capital instruments and fixed rate tier 1 notes 1,382 1,382 1 Market movements including foreign exchange 0.4 Preference shares 200 200 Pension scheme funding 0.1 Subordinated debt 4,370 4,337 Disposals 0.2 External debt 755 802 Poland pension legislative changes 0.3 Total capital employed 16,142 16,499 Increase in capital resources requirement 0.1 1.
Corporate and other business includes centrally held tangible net assets, the main UK staff pension scheme Other regulatory adjustments 0.2 surplus and also reflects internal lending arrangements.
These internal lending arrangements, which net out on Estimated IGD solvency surplus at 31 December 2013 3.6 consolidation include the formal loan arrangement between Aviva Group Holdings Limited and Aviva Insurance Limited AIL.
1 Market movements include the impact of equity, credit spread, interest rate and foreign exchange movements 2 Internal capital management mechanisms in place allocated a majority of the total capital of AIL to the UK net of the effect of hedging instruments.
general insurance operations with the remaining capital deemed to be supporting residual non-operational Pillar II ICA risks.
Regulatory capital UK Life with-profits fund 3 Certain subsidiaries, subject to satisfying standalone capital and liquidity requirements, loan funds to corporate and holding entities.
These loans satisfy arms-length criteria and all interest payments are made when due.
The available capital of the with-profits funds is represented by the realistic inherited estate.
The estate represents the assets of the Total capital employed is financed by a combination of equity long-term with-profits funds less the realistic liabilities for non-profit shareholders funds, preference capital, subordinated debt and policies within the funds, less asset shares aggregated across the borrowings.
with-profits policies and any additional amounts expected at the At 2013 we had 16.1 billion 2012: 16.5 billion of total valuation date to be paid to in-force policyholders in the future in capital employed in our trading operations measured on an IFRS respect of smoothing costs, guarantees and promises.
balance sheet information is shown below for the three main UK In July 2013 we issued 650 million of Lower Tier 2 with-profit funds: Old With-Profit Sub-Fund OWPSF, New Withsubordinated debt callable in 2023.
This was used to repay a Profit Sub-Fund NWPSF and With-Profit Sub-Fund WPSF.
These 650 million Lower Tier 2 subordinated debt instrument at its realistic liabilities have been included within the long-term business first call date, in October 2013.
On a net basis, these provision and the liability for insurance and investment contracts on transactions did not impact on Group IGD Solvency and the consolidated IFRS statement of financial position at 31 Economic Capital measures.
Regulatory capital overview 2013 2012 Individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report solvency Estimated Capital Estimated Estimated Estimated based on applicable local regulations, including in the UK the Estimated Estimated realistic support risk excess excess realistic realistic inherited arrangecapital available available regulations established by the Prudential Regulatory Authority 1 2 3 assets liabilities estate ment margin capital capital bn bn bn bn bn bn bn PRA.
These measures are also consolidated under the European NWPSF 15.6 15.6 1.1 0.2 0.9 0.3 Insurance Groups Directive IGD to calculate regulatory capital OWPSF 2.8 2.4 0.4 0.1 0.3 0.2 adequacy at an aggregate Group level, where we have a 4 WPSF 16.9 15.4 1.5 0.3 1.2 1.3 regulatory obligation to have a positive position at all times.
Aggregate 35.3 33.4 1.9 1.1 0.6 2.4 1.8 This measure represents the excess of the aggregate value of 1 These realistic liabilities include the shareholders share of accrued bonuses of 0.1 billion 31 December 2012: regulatory capital employed in our business over the aggregate 0.3 billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted to eliminate the shareholders share of accrued bonuses are 33.4 billion 31 December 2012: 36.0 billion.
These realistic liabilities make provision for guarantees, options and minimum solvency requirements imposed by local regulators, promises on a market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of the provision included within realistic liabilities is 1.4 billion, 0.2 billion and 2.5 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively 31 December 2012: 1.8 excluding the surplus held in the UK and Ireland with-profit life billion, 0.3 billion and 3.5 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
The minimum solvency requirement for our European 2 Estimated realistic inherited estate at 31 December 2012 was nil, 0.3 billion and 1.8 billion for NWPSF, OWPSF and WPSF respectively.
businesses is based on the Solvency 1 Directive.
In broad terms, 3 This support arrangement represents the reattributed estate RIEESA of 1.1 billion at 31 December 2013 for EU operations, this is set at 4% and 1% of non-linked and 31 December 2012: 0.7 billion held within NPSF1 a non-profit fund within UKLAP included within other UK life operations.
unit-linked life reserves respectively and for our general 4 The WPSF fund includes the Provident Mutual PM fund, which has realistic assets and liabilities of 1.5 billion and therefore does not impact the realistic inherited estate.
insurance portfolio of business is the higher of 18% of gross premiums or 26% of gross claims, in both cases adjusted to Investment mix reflect the level of reinsurance recoveries.
For our business in The aggregate investment mix of the assets in the three main Canada a risk charge on assets and liabilities approach is used.
with-profits funds at 31 December 2013 was: 2013 2012 % % Equity 29% 23% Property 12% 16% Fixed interest 49% 51% Other 10% 10% Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 279 Aviva plc Risk and capital management continued Annual report and accounts 2013 The equity backing ratios, including property, supporting withThe Groups overall financial strength is reflected in our credit profit asset shares are 70% in NWPSF and OWPSF, and 73% ratings.
The Groups rating from Standard and Poors is A in WPSF.
strong with a Stable outlook: A1 good with a Stable outlook from Moodys: and A excellent with a Stable outlook from Economic capital A. M. Best.
We use a risk-based capital model to assess economic capital requirements and to aid in risk and capital management across Financial flexibility the Group.
The model is based on a framework for identifying The Groups borrowings are comprised primarily of long dated the risks to which business units, and the Group as a whole, are hybrid instruments with maturities spread over many years, exposed.
Where appropriate, businesses also supplement these minimising refinancing risk.
In addition to central liquid asset with additional risk models and stressed scenarios specific to holdings of 1.3 billion, the majority of which was held within their own risk profile.
When aggregating capital requirements at Aviva Group Holdings Limited at the 2013 year end, the Group business unit and Group level, we allow for diversification also has access to unutilised committed credit facilities of 1.5 benefits between risks and between businesses, with restrictions billion provided by a range of leading international banks.
to allow for non-fungibility of capital where appropriate.
This Capital generation and utilisation means that the aggregate capital requirement is less than the The active management of the generation and utilisation of sum of capital required to cover all of the individual risks.
The capital is a primary Group focus, with the balancing of new capital requirement reflects the cost of mitigating the risk of business investment and shareholder distribution with operating insolvency to a 99.5% confidence level over a one year time capital generation a key financial priority.
horizon equivalent to events occurring in 1 out of 200 years For continuing operations excluding US and Delta Lloyd, against financial and non-financial tests.
operating capital generation for 2013 was 1.8 billion 2012: The financial modelling techniques employed in economic 1.9 billion.
In-force life business generated 1.5 billion of capital enhance our practice of risk and capital management.
capital 2012: 1.7 billion, with a further 0.6 billion 2012: They enable understanding of the impact of the interaction of 0.5 billion generated by the general insurance and fund different risks allowing us to direct risk management activities management businesses and other operations.
These same techniques are employed to enhance 2012: 0.3 billion of capital investment is primarily in life product pricing and capital allocation processes.
traditional regulatory capital measures, economic capital also recognises the value of longer-term profits emerging from in- 2013 2012 force and new business, allowing for consideration of longerbn bn term value emergence as well as shorter-term net worth Operating capital generation: volatility in our risk and capital management processes.
We 1 Life in-force profits 1.5 1.7 continue to develop our economic capital modelling capability General insurance, fund management and non-insurance profits 0.6 0.5 for all our businesses as part of our development programme to Operating capital generation before investment increase the focus on economic capital management and in new business continuing operations excluding meeting the emerging requirements of the Solvency II Delta Lloyd 2.1 2.2 framework and external agencies.
Capital invested in new business 0.3 0.3 Operating capital generation after investment Solvency II in new business continuing operations excluding Delta Lloyd 1.8 1.9 Following the provisional agreement between the European Parliament, European Council and European Commission in United States and Delta Lloyd 0.2 0.1 November 2013 on the Omnibus II Directive, there is now a Group as reported 2.0 2.0 widespread expectation that Solvency II will come into effect on 1 The Life in-force profits in 2012 exclude the negative impact of a true up relating to a prior estimate of required capital, which is included in the MCEV Free Surplus Emergence, as this does not impact the actual 1 January 2016, based on the European Commissions Directive capital generated in 2012.
Operating capital generation comprises the following components: also in November 2013 that postpones the implementation Operating Free surplus emergence, including release of required capital, for the life in-force business net of tax to that date.
and non-controlling interests : Operating profits for the general insurance and non-life businesses net of tax and non-controlling interests from Aviva continues to actively participate in the development non-covered business only, where non-covered business is that which is outside the scope of life MCEV methodology: of the Level 2 and Level 3 text that will establish the technical Capital invested in new business.
For life business this is the impact of initial and required capital on free surplus.
requirements governing the practical application of Solvency II For general insurance business this reflects the movement in required capital, which has been assumed to equal the regulatory minimum multiplied by the local management target level.
Where appropriate movements in through the key European industry working groups, and by capital requirements exclude the impact of foreign exchange and other movements deemed to be nonengaging with the PRA and HM Treasury throughout.
Post deconsolidation on 6 May 2011, all Delta Lloyd business including its life, general insurance, fund includes consideration of the role of transitional arrangements management and non-insurance segments has been included in OCG on an IFRS basis net of taxation and non-controlling interests.
once Solvency II comes into effect.
Post classification as held for sale in Q4 2012, US Life was no longer managed on a MCEV basis so it has been included in OCG on an IFRS basis net of taxation.
Rating agency The amount of operating capital remitted to Group is dependent upon a number of factors including non-operating items and local regulatory requirements.
Credit ratings are an important indicator of financial strength and support access to debt markets as well as providing assurance to As well as financing new business investment, the operating business partners and policyholders over our ability to service capital generated is used to finance corporate costs, service the contractual obligations.
In recognition of this we have solicited Groups debt capital and to finance shareholder dividend relationships with a number of rating agencies.
After taking these items into account the net generally assign ratings based on an assessment of a range of operating capital generated after financing is 0.8 billion 2012: financial factors e. g. capital strength, leverage, liquidity and fixed 0.6 billion.
charge cover ratios and non-financial factors e. g. strategy, competitive position, and quality of management.
2013 2012 bn bn Certain rating agencies have proprietary capital models which Operating capital generation after investment they use to assess available capital resources against capital in new business 2.0 2.0 requirements as a component in their overall criteria for assigning Interest, corporate and other costs 0.6 0.7 External dividend net of scrip 0.6 0.7 ratings.
Managing our capital and liquidity position in accordance Net operating capital generation after financing 0.8 0.6 with our target rating levels is a core consideration in all material capital management and capital allocation decisions.
