282 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Corporate responsibility assurance statement PwC Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Aviva plc The Directors of Aviva plc Aviva engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described in Avivas Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending 31 December 2013.
Our conclusion Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected Information for the year ended 31 December 2013 has not been prepared, in all material respects, with the Reporting Criteria.
This conclusion is to be read in the context of what we say below.
Selected Information The scope of our work was limited to assurance over the information marked with the symbol in Avivas Annual Report and Accounts 2013 the Selected Information as found on pages 280 and 281.
The Selected Information was assessed against the Reporting Criteria found at http: www.
Our assurance does not extend to information in respect of earlier periods or to any other information included in Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
Professional standards applied and level of assurance We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance engagements other than Audits or Review of Historical Financial Information ISAE 3000 and, in respect of CO2 emissions, the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance engagements on greenhouse gas statements ISAE 3410 issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks.
Our independence and quality control We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ICAEW Code of Ethics, which includes independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
We apply International Standard on Quality Control UK&I and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Our work was carried out by an independent team with experience in sustainability reporting and assurance.
Understanding reporting and measurement methodologies The Selected Information needs to be read and understood together with the Reporting Criteria.
The absence of a significant body of established practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for different, but acceptable, measurement techniques.
The nature, methods and precision used to determine non-financial information can result in materially different measurements, affecting comparability between entities and over time.
The Reporting Criteria used for the reporting of the Selected Information are at 31 December 2013.
Work done Considering the risk of material misstatement of the Selected Information, we: made enquiries of Avivas management, including the Corporate Responsibility CR team and those with responsibility for CR management and group CR reporting: evaluated the design of the key structures, systems, processes and controls for managing, recording and reporting the Selected Information.
This included analysing and visiting head offices in two countries out of seventeen countries, selected on the basis of their inherent risk and materiality to the group, to understand the key processes for reporting site performance data to the group CR team: performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the Selected Information to check that data had been appropriately measured, recorded, collated and reported: and assessed the disclosure and presentation of the Selected Information.
Avivas responsibilities The Directors of Aviva are responsible for: designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls over information relevant to the preparation of the Selected Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: establishing objective Reporting Criteria for preparing the Selected Information: measuring Avivas performance based on the Reporting Criteria: and the content of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 283 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility assurance statement continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Our responsibilities We are responsible for: planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected Information is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: forming an independent conclusion, based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained: and reporting our conclusion to the Directors of Aviva.
This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for the Directors of Aviva as a body in accordance with the agreement between us, to assist the Directors in reporting Avivas corporate responsibility performance and activities.
We permit this report to be disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending 31 December 2013, to enable the Directors to show they have addressed their governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent assurance report in connection with the Selected Information.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Directors as a body and Aviva for our work or this report except where terms are expressly agreed between us in writing.
 LLP, Chartered Accountants, London 5 March 2014 1 The maintenance and integrity of Avivas website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the reported Selected Information or Reporting Criteria when presented on Avivas website 284 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 This page is intentionally left blank.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 285 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Other information Shareholder information In this section Company address 286 Share capital 286 Related party disclosures 288 Dividend data 288 Guarantees, securitised assets and off-balance 289 sheet arrangements Liquidity and capital resources 289 Regulation 293 Risks relating to our business 299
