312 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Glossary Open ended investment company OEIC Product definitions A collective investment fund structured as a limited company in Annuities which investors can buy and sell shares.
A type of policy that pays out regular amounts of benefit, either immediately and for the remainder of a persons lifetime, or Pension deferred to commence from a future date.
Immediate annuities A means of providing income in retirement for an individual and may be purchased for an individual and his or her dependants possibly his her dependants.
or on a bulk purchase basis for groups of people.
Deferred annuities are accumulation contracts, which may be used to Personal pension provide benefits in retirement.
Annuities may be guaranteed, A pension plan tailored to the individual policyholder, which unit-linked or index-linked.
includes the options to stop, start or change their payments.
Bonds and savings Protection These are accumulation products with single or regular An insurance contract that protects the policyholder or his her premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed investment returns.
dependants against financial loss on death or ill-health.
Critical illness cover Regular premium Pays out a lump sum if the insured person is diagnosed with a A series of payments are made by the policyholder, typically serious illness that meets the plan definition.
monthly or annually, for part of or all of the duration of the contract.
Deferred annuities An annuity or pension due to be paid from a future date or Collective investment scheme SICAVs when the policyholder reaches a specified age.
A deferred This is an open-ended investment fund, structured as a legally annuity may be funded by a policyholder by payment of a series independent joint stock company, whose units are issued in the of regular contributions or by a capital sum.
General insurance Single premium Also known as non-life or property and casualty insurance.
A single lump sum is paid by the policyholder at Property insurance covers loss or damage through fire, theft, commencement of the contract.
flood, storms and other specified risks.
Casualty insurance primarily covers losses arising from accidents that cause injury Stakeholder pensions to other people or damage the property of others.
Low cost and flexible pension plans available in the UK, governed by specific regulations.
Group pension A pension plan that covers a group of people, which is typically Term assurance purchased by a company and offered to their employees.
A simple form of life insurance, offering cover over a fixed number of years during which a lump sum will be paid out if the Health insurance life insured dies.
Provides cover against loss from illness or bodily injury.
Can pay for medicine, visits to the doctor, hospital stays, other medical Unit trusts expenses and loss of earnings, depending on the conditions A form of open ended collective investment constituted under a covered and the benefits and choices of treatment available on trust deed, in which investors can buy and sell units.
Whole life Income drawdown A protection policy that remains in force for the insureds whole The policyholder can transfer money from any pension fund to life: a lump sum will be paid out on death.
Traditional whole life an income drawdown plan from which they receive an income.
contracts have fixed premium payments that typically cannot be The remainder of the pension fund continues to be invested, missed without lapsing the policy.
Flexible whole life contracts giving it the potential for growth.
allow the policyholder to vary the premium and or amount of life cover, within certain limits.
Investment sales Comprise retail sales of mutual fund-type products such as unit General terms trusts, individual savings accounts ISAs and open ended Annual premium equivalent APE investment companies OEICs.
Used as a measure of annual sales, taking the annual premium of regular premium contracts plus 10% of single Individual savings account ISAs premium contracts.
Tax-efficient plans for investing in stocks and shares, cash deposits or life insurance investment funds, subject to Available for sale AFS certain limits.
Securities that have been acquired neither for short-term sale nor to be held to maturity.
These are shown at fair value on the Mortgage endowment statement of financial position and changes in value are taken An insurance contract combining savings and protection straight to equity instead of the income statement.
elements which is designed to repay the principal of a loan or mortgage.
Association of British Insurers ABI A major trade association for UK insurance companies, Mortgage life insurance established in July 1985.
A protection contract designed to pay off the outstanding amount of a mortgage or loan in the event of death of Acquired value of in force AVIF the insured.
The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or through the purchase of a subsidiary.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 313 Aviva plc Glossary continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Bancassurance Inherited estate An arrangement whereby banks and building societies sell In the UK, the assets of the long-term with-profit funds less the insurance and investment products to their customers on behalf realistic reserves for non-profit policies written within the withof other financial providers.
profit funds, less asset shares aggregated across the with-profit policies and any additional amounts expected at the valuation Combined operating ratio COR date to be paid to in-force policyholders in the future in respect COR is calculated as incurred claims expressed as a percentage of of smoothing costs and guarantees.
net earned premiums, plus written commissions and written expenses expressed as a percentage of net written premiums.
Long-term and savings business Collective term for life insurance, pensions, savings, investments Deferred acquisition costs DAC and related business.
The costs directly attributable to the acquisition of new business for insurance and investment contracts may be deferred to the Net written premiums extent that they are expected to be recoverable out of future Total gross written premiums for the given period, less margins in revenue on these contracts.
premiums paid over or ceded to reinsurers.
Fair value New business strain NBS The amount for which an asset can be exchanged, or a liability The name given to the initial impact on shareholders' net assets settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms when an insurance contract is sold.
This strain arises because, length transaction.
in addition to meeting costs associated with the sale of contracts, insurance companies must meet capital and reserving Financial Conduct Authority FCA requirements at the outset of a contract that are often One of the two bodies along with the PRA which replaced the significantly higher than the premiums received.
Financial Services Authority from 1 April 2013.
The FCA is a company limited by guarantee and is independent of the Bank Present value of new business PVNBP of England.
It is responsible for the conduct business regulation Present value of new regular premiums plus 100% of single of all firms including those firms subject to prudential premiums, calculated using assumptions consistent with those regulation by the PRA and the prudential regulation of firms used to determine the value of new business under Market not regulated by the PRA.
The FCA has three statutory Consistent Embedded Value MCEV principles published by the objectives: securing an appropriate degree of protection for CFO Forum.
consumers, protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA financial system and promoting effective competition in the One of the two bodies along with the FCA which replaced the interests of consumers.
The PRA is a part Funds under management of the Bank of England and is responsible for the prudential Represents all assets actively managed or administered by or regulation of deposit taking institutions, insurers and major on behalf of the Group including those funds managed by investment firms.
The PRA has two statutory objectives: to third parties.
promote the safety and soundness of these firms and, specifically for insurers, to contribute to the securing of an Gross written premiums appropriate degree of protection for policyholders.
The total earnings or revenue generated by sales of insurance products, before any reinsurance is taken into account.
Not all Solvency II premiums written will necessarily be treated as income in the These are insurance regulations designed to harmonise EU current financial year, because some of them could relate to insurance regulation.
Primarily this concerns the amount of insurance cover for a subsequent period.
capital that European insurance companies must hold under a measure of capital and risk.
Solvency II is due to become Independent Financial Advisers IFAs effective from 1 January 2016.
A person or organisation, authorised under the FCA, to give advice on financial matters and to sell the products of all Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control financial service providers.
The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice on internal controls for UK listed companies, and provides additional Internal rate of return IRR guidance in applying certain sections of the UK Corporate A discount rate used to measure profitability.
The rate used Governance Code.
is that which will bring a series of cash flows to a net present value of nil.
UK Corporate Governance Code The code sets out guidance in the form of principles and International financial reporting standards IFRS provisions on how companies should be directed and controlled These are accounting regulations designed to ensure to follow good governance practice.
comparable statement of financial position preparation and disclosure, and are the standards that all publicly listed Value of new business VNB companies in the European Union are required to use.
VNB is the present value of future profits from new business written at the point of sale.
It is calculated on a market Operating profit consistent basis using economic assumptions set at the start This is also referred to as adjusted operating profit or operating of each quarter and the same operating assumptions as those profit IFRS basis.
It is based on expected investment returns, used to determine the embedded value at the end of the and stated before tax and before non-operating items including, reporting period and is stated after the effect of any frictional impairment of goodwill, exceptional and other items.
Unless otherwise stated, it is quoted net of tax and minority interests.
Please note that each Aviva ADR represents two 2 ordinary shares.
Percentages do not necessarily add up due to rounding.
2014 financial calendar Annual General Meeting 30 April 2014 Announcement of first quarter Interim Management Statement 15 May 2014 Announcement of unaudited half-year results 7 August 2014 Announcement of third quarter Interim Management Statement 30 October 2014 2013 final dividend dates ordinary shares Ex-dividend date 2 April 2014 Record date 4 April 2014 Last day for Dividend Reinvestment Plan election 24 April 2014 Dividend payment date 16 May 2014 Please note that the ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend date for ordinary shares.
Dividends Annual General Meeting AGM Dividends on ordinary shares are normally paid in May and The 2014 AGM will be held at the QEII Conference Centre, November please see the table above for the key dates in Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on respect of the 2013 final dividend.
Dividends on preference shares are normally paid in March, Details of each resolution to be considered at the meeting June, September and December please visit are provided in the Notice of AGM, which is available on the www.
com preferenceshares for the latest dividend Companys website at www.
Shareholders can vote electronically at Holders of ordinary and preference shares will receive any www.
co. uk eproxy, in person by attending dividends payable in sterling and holders of ADRs will receive the meeting, or by completing and returning the relevant any dividends payable in US dollars.
The Company has decided to introduce a Dividend The voting results for the 2014 AGM will be accessible on Reinvestment Plan.
The plan provides the option for eligible the Companys website at www.
com agm shortly after shareholders to reinvest their cash dividend in additional the meeting.
ordinary shares in the Company.
For further information If you are unable to attend the AGM but would like to ask please visit www.
Completed application the directors a question in connection with the business forms should be sent to the Companys Registrar, of the meeting, you can do so by sending a question to Computershare, by no later than 5pm on Thursday, the group company secretary by email to 24 April 2014. aviva.
We will endeavour to provide you with a response as soon as possible.
Direct credit of dividend payments If you would like to have your cash dividends paid directly AGM voting instructions into your bank or building society account, or if you would Completed proxy instructions must be submitted to the like to have your dividends reinvested please visit Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC www.
com dividends for more information or contact Computershare, as soon as possible, but in any event to Computershare using the contact details overleaf.
arrive by no later than: Monday, 28 April 2014 at 11am for ordinary shareholders: Overseas global dividend service and The Global Payments Service provided by Computershare Friday, 25 April 2014 at 11am for members of the Aviva enables shareholders living overseas to elect to receive their Share Account, participants in the Vested Share Account dividends in a choice of over 65 international currencies.
For and the Aviva All Employee Share Ownership Plan.
further details and fees for this service please visit www.
co. uk faq and select the Dividends and Payments tab, followed by Global Payment Service.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 315 Aviva plc Shareholder services continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Contact details Manage your holdings online You can view and manage your shareholding online by Ordinary and preference shares Computershare visiting www.
To log in you will require For any queries regarding your shareholding, or to advise of your 11 digit Shareholder Reference Number SRN, which changes to your personal details, please contact our Registrar, you will find on your proxy or voting card, latest dividend Computershare: stationery, or any share certificate issued since 4 July 2011.
By telephone: 0871 495 0105 Shareholders can also elect to receive electronic Lines are open from 8.30am to 5pm UK time, communications by registering their email address online, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.
or by contacting Computershare directly.
Making this Please call 44 117 378 8361 if calling from outside election will save on printing and distribution costs and has the UK.
co. uk Useful links for shareholders In writing: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ Online Shareholder Services Centre www.
com shareholderservices American Depositary Receipts ADRs Citibank For any queries regarding Aviva ADRs, please contact Citibank Dividend information for ordinary shares Shareholder Services Citibank : www.
com dividends By telephone: 1 877 248 4237 1 877-CITI-ADR, or Annual General Meeting information and Electronic Voting 1 781 575 4555 if you are calling from outside the www.
Lines are open from 8.30am to 6pm, Monday to www.
co. uk eproxy Friday US Eastern Standard Time.
Aviva share price By email: citibank@shareholders-online.
com shareprice In writing: Citibank Shareholder Services, ADR holders PO Box 43077, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3077 USA www.
com dr for further information about Aviva preference shareholders Avivas ADR programme.
com preferenceshares Group Company Secretary Aviva preference share price Shareholders may contact the group company secretary www.
com as follows: Aviva reports information By email: aviva.
com reports Form 20-F In writing: Kirstine Cooper, Group Company Secretary Aviva is a foreign private issuer in the United States of America St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ and is subject to certain reporting requirements of the Securities By telephone: 44 0 20 7283 2000 Exchange Commission SEC.
Aviva files its Form 20-F with the SEC, copies of which can be found at www.
Aviva plc Strategic report Be on your guard beware of fraudsters!
Shareholders who do not require the full Aviva plc Annual Please be very wary of any unsolicited telephone calls or report and accounts can instead request to receive the correspondence offering to buy shares at a discount or Strategic report which, as well as forming part of the full offering free financial advice or company reports.
Boiler report on pages 2 to 66 is produced by the Company as rooms use increasingly sophisticated means to approach a stand-alone document including supplementary material.
investors and often leave their victims out of pocket.
If you would prefer to receive a hard copy of the Strategic The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has found most report instead of the full report, please contact share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose Computershare.
You can view the full Aviva plc Strategic an average of 20,000.
The FCA has provided tips on report online at: www.
com 2013ar how to protect your savings which you can find at www.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to call you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
Do not get into conversation, note the name and firm contacting you and hang up.
For more information please visit the warning to shareholders page at: www.
316 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Cautionary statement This document should be read in conjunction with the reinsurance coverage: increased competition in the UK and in documents filed by Aviva plc the Company or Aviva with other countries where we have significant operations: the effect the United States Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
of the European Unions Solvency II rules on our regulatory This announcement contains, and we may make other verbal or capital requirements: the impact of actual experience differing written forward looking statements with respect to certain of from estimates used in valuing and amortising deferred Avivas plans and current goals and expectations relating to acquisition costs DAC and acquired value of inforce business future financial condition, performance, results, strategic AVIF : the impact of recognising an impairment of our initiatives and objectives.
Statements containing the words goodwill or intangibles with indefinite lives: changes in valuation believes, intends, expects, projects, plans, will, methodologies, estimates and assumptions used in the valuation seeks, aims, may, could, outlook, estimates and of investment securities: the effect of legal proceedings and anticipates, and words of similar meaning, are forward regulatory investigations: the impact of operational risks, looking.
By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve including inadequate or failed internal and external processes, risk and uncertainty.
Accordingly, there are or will be important systems and human error or from external events: risks factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from associated with arrangements with third parties, including joint those indicated in these statements.
Aviva believes factors that ventures: funding risks associated with our participation in could cause actual results to differ materially from those defined benefit staff pension schemes: the failure to attract or indicated in forward-looking statements in the document retain the necessary key personnel: the effect of systems errors include, but are not limited to: the impact of ongoing difficult or regulatory changes on the calculation of unit prices or conditions in the global financial markets and the economy deduction of charges for our unit-linked products that may generally: the impact of various local political, regulatory and require retrospective compensation to our customers: the effect economic conditions: market developments and government of simplifying our operating structure and activities: the effect of actions regarding the sovereign debt crisis in Europe: the effect a decline in any of our ratings by rating agencies on our of credit spread volatility on the net unrealised value of the standing among customers, brokerdealers, agents, wholesalers investment portfolio: the effect of losses due to defaults by and other distributors of our products and services: changes to counterparties, including potential sovereign debt defaults or our brand and reputation: changes in government regulations restructurings, on the value of our investments: changes in or tax laws in jurisdictions where we conduct business: the interest rates that may cause policyholders to surrender their inability to protect our intellectual property: the effect of contracts, reduce the value of our portfolio and impact our asset undisclosed liabilities, integration issues and other risks and liability matching: the impact of changes in equity or associated with our acquisitions: and the timing regulatory property prices on our investment portfolio: fluctuations in approval impact and other uncertainties relating to announced currency exchange rates: the effect of market fluctuations on acquisitions and pending disposals and relating to future the value of options and guarantees embedded in some of our acquisitions, combinations or disposals within relevant life insurance products and the value of the assets backing their industries.
For a more detailed description of these risks, reserves: the amount of allowances and impairments taken on uncertainties and other factors, please see Item 3d, Risk our investments: the effect of adverse capital and credit market Factors, and Item 5, Operating and Financial Review and conditions on our ability to meet assumptions in pricing and Prospects in Avivas most recent Annual Report on Form 20-F reserving for insurance business particularly with regard to as filed with the SEC.
Aviva undertakes no obligation to update mortality and morbidity trends, lapse rates and policy renewal the forward looking statements in this announcement or any rates, longevity and endowments: the impact of catastrophic other forward-looking statements we may make.
Forwardevents on our business activities and results of operations: the looking statements in this announcement are current only as of inability of reinsurers to meet obligations or unavailability of the date on which such statements are made.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk which is a recycled grade containing 100% post consumer waste and manufactured using a totally chlorine free process.
This document was printed by Butler Tanner and Dennis who are FSC and ISO14001 accredited.
In this report we have included genuine examples of people whose experiences bring to life what we do every day for our customers.
We would like to thank the customers who took part and invited us into their homes and businesses, to allow us to share their stories.
To find out more, view our video at www.
com Designed by SASLondon part of MSL Group Customer portraits by Alun Callender Aviva plc St Helens, 1 Undershaft London EC3P 3DQ 44 0 20 7283 2000 www.
com Registered in England Number 2468686
