110 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Accounting policies Aviva plc the Company, a public limited company previously consolidated.
There is no impact on the profit or incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom UK, loss for the current or prior year or on equity reported.
together with its subsidiaries collectively, the Group or Aviva There is no material impact on the total assets or liabilities transacts life assurance and long-term savings business, fund in the comparative period.
The effect on amounts management and most classes of general insurance and health previously reported at 31 December 2012 is set out in business through its subsidiaries, associates and branches in the note 1.
UK, Ireland, continental Europe, Canada, Asia and other ii IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements countries throughout the world, and until October 2013, the IFRS 11 replaces IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SICUnited States US.
13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation by Venturers.
IFRS 11 defines and establishes accounting of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies principles for joint arrangements.
The standard have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless distinguishes between two types of joint arrangements otherwise stated.
joint ventures and joint operations based on how rights and obligations are shared by parties to the arrangements.
A Basis of preparation The adoption of IFRS 11 has no impact on the consolidated The consolidated financial statements and those of the financial statements in the current or prior period.
Company have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards iii IFRS 12, Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IFRS 12 includes the disclosure requirements for all forms IASB and as endorsed by the European Union EU, and those of interests in other entities, including joint arrangements, parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to those reporting associates, and structured entities.
The adoption of IFRS 12 under IFRS.
In addition to fulfilling their legal obligation to has resulted in significant additional disclosures in respect comply with IFRS as adopted by the EU, the Group and the of these interests.
The standard has been applied Company have also complied with IFRS as issued by the IASB retrospectively, with disclosure for the comparative period and applicable at 31 December 2013.
The consolidated financial except for disclosure on interests in unconsolidated statements have been prepared under the historical cost structured entities in line with the transitional provision of convention, as modified by the revaluation of land and the standard.
There is no impact on the Groups profit or buildings, investment property, available-for-sale financial loss for the current or prior period or on the equity assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including reported.
The additional disclosures are included in notes derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
In accordance with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts, the Group has applied existing accounting practices for insurance and iv IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement participating investment contracts, modified as appropriate to IFRS 13 establishes a single standard for all fair value comply with the IFRS framework and applicable standards.
The standard does not change the scope of Further details are given in accounting policy G. fair value measurement, but provides further guidance on Items included in the financial statements of each of the how fair value should be determined.
The changes have no Groups entities are measured in the currency of the primary significant impact on the Groups application of fair value economic environment in which that entity operates the measurements and have no impact on the profit or loss for functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are the current or prior period or on equity reported.
IFRS 13 stated in pounds sterling, which is the Companys functional also requires enhanced disclosures about fair value and presentational currency.
Unless otherwise noted, the measurement, some of which replace existing disclosure amounts shown in these financial statements are in millions of requirements in other standards, including IFRS 7 Financial pounds sterling m. The separate financial statements of the Instruments: Disclosures and are set out in note 23.
IFRS 13 Company are on pages 238 to 246. has been adopted and applied prospectively in accordance See note 3 for presentation changes to the consolidated with the standard.
v IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements Amended New standards, interpretations and amendments to The amendments to IAS 1 require the grouping of items published standards that have been adopted by the Group presented in other comprehensive income according to The Group has adopted the following new standards or whether they will subsequently be reclassified or recycled amendments to standards which became effective for financial to income statement in the future.
The criteria when items years beginning on or after 1 January 2013. are required to be reclassified from other comprehensive income to income statement are set out in the accounting i IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements policies below.
The adoption of the amendments to IAS 1 IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and results in a revised presentation of the statement of Separate Financial Statements that addressed the comprehensive income and is applied retrospectively.
It has accounting for consolidated financial statements.
It also no impact on the profit or loss for the current or prior supersedes SIC-12 Consolidation Special Purpose Entities period or on equity reported.
and establishes a single control model that applies to all entities.
IFRS 10 sets out the requirements for the vi IAS 19, Employee Benefits Revised preparation and presentation of consolidated financial The amendment revises requirements for pensions and statements, requiring an entity to consolidate entities it other post-retirement benefits, termination benefits and controls.
The standard changes the definition of control other employee benefits.
The key changes include the and the new criteria for control is outlined in accounting revision of the calculation of the finance cost, enhanced policy D. In line with the transitional provisions the disclosures surrounding the characteristics and risk profile requirements have been retrospectively applied at the of defined benefit plans, and a requirement to include all beginning of the immediate preceding period.
The actuarial gains and losses immediately in other application of IFRS 10 has resulted in the consolidation of comprehensive income which is already in line with the investment vehicles that were not previously consolidated, Groups current policy.
The key impact of the revised and deconsolidation of investment vehicles that were standard on the Groups consolidated financial statements Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 111 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 is the replacement of the interest cost on the defined Standards, interpretations and amendments to published standards that are not yet effective and have been adopted benefit obligation and the expected return on plan assets early by the Group with a net interest income or expense.
This is based on The following amendments to existing standards have been the net defined benefit asset or liability at the start of the issued, are effective for accounting periods beginning on year multiplied by the discount rate used at that point to or after 1 January 2014 and have been adopted early by measure the pension obligation.
There is no change in the the Group: method to determine the discount rate.
Net interest income is credited to investment income, whereas net i Amendments to IAS 36, Impairment of Assets interest expense is charged to finance costs.
The revised The amendments clarify disclosure requirements in respect standard has introduced a new term remeasurements of the recoverable amount of impaired non-financial assets comprised of actuarial gains and losses and the difference if the amount is based on fair value less costs to sell.
These between actual investment returns less investment amendments have been early adopted by the Group, with expenses and the return implied by the net interest cost.
no significant impact on the Groups consolidated financial These are recognised in other comprehensive income with statements.
The amendments have been endorsed by no subsequent recycling to the income statement.
Amounts recorded in the income statement are therefore limited to service costs, and the net interest Standards, interpretations and amendments to published income expense.
The revised standard has been applied standards that are not yet effective and have not been retrospectively in accordance with the transitional provision adopted early by the Group of the standard.
This has resulted in an increase in profit The following new standards, amendments to existing standards before tax of 150 million for the year ended 31 December and interpretations have been issued, are effective for 2012 with a corresponding decrease in other accounting periods beginning on or after the following date and comprehensive income as the discount rate applied to have not been adopted early by the Group: assets is higher than the previously applied expected return on assets.
There is no impact on reported equity in the Effective for annual periods beginning on or after current or prior period.
The effect on amounts previously 1 January 2014 reported is set out in note 1. i Amendments to IAS 32, Financial Instruments Presentation vii Amendments to IFRS 7, Financial Instruments The amendments to IAS 32 clarify the requirements for Disclosures offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on the The amendments include enhanced disclosures to enable statement of financial position.
The adoption of these users of the financial statements to evaluate the effect or amendments is not expected to have a significant impact potential effect of netting arrangements in the statement on the Groups profit for the year or equity.
The new disclosures are required for amendments have been endorsed by the EU.
all recognised financial instruments that are set off in accordance with IAS 32, Financial Instruments: ii Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 2011 Presentation.
The disclosures also apply to recognised The amendments provide an exemption from consolidation financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable of subsidiaries under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial master netting arrangement or similar agreement.
The Statements for entities which meet the definition of an standard has been applied retrospectively but has no 'investment entity', such as certain investment funds.
impact on the Groups profit for the current or prior period Instead, such entities would measure their investment in or on the equity reported.
The new disclosures are particular subsidiaries at fair value through profit or loss in presented in note 60. accordance with IFRS 9 Financial Instruments or IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
viii IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements 2011 and IAS 28, There are no implications for the Groups consolidated Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 2011 financial statements, because the Group does not meet the IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements definition of an investment entity.
The amendments have was superseded by IFRS 10 which addresses the been endorsed by the EU.
requirements for consolidated financial statements and by revised IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements 2011 which iii Amendments to IAS 39, Financial Instruments addresses the amended requirements for separate financial Recognition and Measurement statements.
IAS 28 has been revised to include the The amendments provide an exception to the requirement application of the equity method for joint ventures as well to discontinue hedge accounting in certain circumstances as associates.
Joint ventures are required to be equity of novations in which there is a change in counterparty to accounted following the issuance of IFRS 11.
There are a hedging instrument in order to achieve clearing for that no implications for the Groups consolidated financial instrument.
The impact of the adoption of the amendment statements.
is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The amendments have ix Improvements to IFRSs 2009-2011 been endorsed by the EU.
These improvements to IFRSs consist of amendments to five IFRSs, including IAS 1 Presentation of Financial iv IFRIC 21, Levies Statements, IAS 32 Financial Instruments Presentation, The interpretation clarifies when an entity recognises a and IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting.
The amendments liability for a levy imposed by government in accordance clarify existing guidance and do not give rise to a change with legislation other than taxes and fines or other in existing accounting practice.
There is no impact on the penalties.
The impact of the adoption of the amendment Groups consolidated financial statements.
has yet to be fully assessed but is not expected to be significant for the Groups consolidated financial statements.
The amendments have yet to be endorsed by the EU.
112 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 v Amendments to IAS 19, Employee Benefits this analysis and the assumptions used are given in notes 9 and These narrow scope amendments simplify accounting for 10.
Operating profit also excludes impairment of goodwill, contributions from employees or third parties to defined associates and joint ventures: amortisation and impairment of benefit plans.
They are not expected to have significant other intangibles: the profit or loss on disposal and implications for the Groups consolidated financial remeasurement of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates: statements.
The amendments have yet to be endorsed integration and restructuring costs: and exceptional items.
Exceptional items are those items that, in the Directors view, are required to be separately disclosed by virtue of their nature vi Improvements to IFRSs 2010-2012 and 2011-2013 or incidence to enable a full understanding of the Groups These improvements to IFRSs consist of amendments to financial performance.
Details of these items are provided in the nine IFRSs.
The amendments clarify existing guidance and relevant notes.
do not give rise to significant changes in existing accounting practice.
The improvements have yet to be fully C Critical accounting policies and the use assessed but are not expected to have significant of estimates implications for the Groups consolidated financial The preparation of financial statements requires the Group to statements.
The amendments have yet to be endorsed select accounting policies and make estimates and assumptions by the EU.
that affect items reported in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of financial position, other vii IFRS 9, Financial Instruments primary statements and notes to the consolidated financial IFRS 9 will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: statements.
Under IFRS 9, all recognised financial assets that are currently within the Critical accounting policies and the use of estimates scope of IAS 39 will be measured at either amortised cost These major areas of judgement on policy application are or fair value.
The basis of classification will depend on the summarised below: business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset.
All equity instruments Critical accounting judgement, estimate Accounting will be measured at fair value.
A debt instrument is Item or assumption policy measured at amortised cost only if it is held to collect the Consolidation Assessment of whether the D contractual cash flows and the cash flows represent Group controls the underlying principal and interest, otherwise it is measured at fair value entities Insurance and participating Assessment of the significance G through profit or loss FVTPL.
For financial liabilities investment contract of insurance risk passed designated as at FVTPL, the change in the fair value liabilities attributable to changes in the liabilitys credit risk is Financial investments Classification of investments T recognised in other comprehensive income unless it gives rise to an accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
All estimates are based on managements knowledge of current The IASB has issued new hedge accounting facts and circumstances, assumptions based on that knowledge requirements, aligning these more closely with an entitys and their predictions of future events and actions.
Actual results risk management activities.
In addition, the IASB published may differ from those estimates, possibly significantly.
amendments to IFRS 9, removing the mandatory effective The table below sets out those items we consider particularly date of 1 January 2015 and allowing an entity to early susceptible to changes in estimates and assumptions, and the adopt the requirements to recognise changes in fair value relevant accounting policy.
from an entitys own credit risk in OCI without having to adopt the whole standard.
Accounting We have not yet completed our assessment of the Item policy impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 on the Group which, to a Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities G&L large extent, will need to take into account the finalisation Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets O Fair values of financial investments F&T of the standard and the interaction of the requirements of Impairment of financial investments T IFRS 9 with the IASBs ongoing insurance contracts Fair value of derivative financial instruments F&U accounting project.
IFRS 9 has not yet been endorsed by Deferred acquisition costs and other assets X the EU.
Provisions and contingent liabilities AA Pension obligations AB B Operating profit Deferred income taxes AC Operations held for sale AH The long-term nature of much of the Groups operations means that, for managements decision-making and internal D Consolidation principles performance management, short-term realised and unrealised investment gains and losses are treated as non-operating items.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are those entities over which the Group has control.
The Group focuses instead on an operating profit measure also referred to as adjusted operating profit that incorporates an The Group controls an investee if and only if the Group has all of the following: expected return on investments supporting its long-term and non-long-term businesses.
Operating profit for long-term power over the investee, exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement business is based on expected investment returns on financial investments backing shareholder and policyholder funds over with the investee, and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect its the reporting period, with allowance for the corresponding expected movements in liabilities.
Variances between actual and returns.
expected investment returns, and the impact of changes in economic assumptions on liabilities, are disclosed separately The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: outside operating profit.
For non-long-term business, the total investment income, including realised and unrealised gains, is the purpose and design of an investee, relevant activities, substantive and protective rights, and voting rights and analysed between that calculated using a longer-term return and short-term fluctuations from that level.
Further details of potential voting rights.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 113 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 The group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if As part of their investment strategy, the UK and certain facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one European long-term business policyholder funds have invested or more of the three elements of control.
Subsidiaries are in a number of property limited partnerships PLPs, either consolidated from the date the Group obtains control and are directly or via property unit trusts PUTs, through a mix of excluded from consolidation from the date the Group loses capital and loans.
The PLPs are managed by general partners control.
All inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised GPs, in which the long-term business shareholder companies surpluses and deficits on transactions between Group hold equity stakes and which themselves hold nominal stakes in companies have been eliminated.
Accounting policies of the PLPs.
The PUTs are managed by a Group subsidiary.
subsidiaries are aligned on acquisition to ensure consistency Accounting for the PUTs and PLPs as subsidiaries, joint with the Group policies.
ventures, associates or other financial investments depends on The Group is required to use the acquisition method of whether the Group is deemed to have control or joint control accounting for business combinations.
Under this method, the over the PUTs and PLPs shareholdings in the GPs and the terms cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the of each partnership agreement are considered along with other consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair factors that determine control, as outlined above.
Where the value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the Group exerts control over a PUT or a PLP, it has been treated as acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group has the a subsidiary and its results, assets and liabilities have been option to measure the non-controlling interest in the acquiree consolidated.
Where the partnership is managed by an either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the agreement such that there is joint control between the parties, acquirees identifiable net assets.
The excess of the notwithstanding that the Groups partnership share in the PLP consideration transferred over the fair value of the net assets of including its indirect stake via the relevant PUT and GP may the subsidiary acquired is recorded as goodwill see accounting be greater than 50%, such PUTs and PLPs have been classified policy O below.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as as joint ventures.
Where the Group has significant influence incurred.
Transactions that do not result in a loss of control are over the PUT or PLP, as defined in the following section, the treated as equity transactions with non-controlling interests.
PUT or PLP is classified as an associate.
Where the Group holds non-controlling interests in PLPs, with no significant Merger accounting and the merger reserve influence or control over their associated GPs, the relevant Prior to 1 January 2004, the date of first time adoption of IFRS, investments are carried at fair value through profit or loss within certain significant business combinations were accounted for financial investments.
using the pooling of interests method or merger accounting, which treats the merged groups as if they had been combined Associates and joint ventures throughout the current and comparative accounting periods.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant Merger accounting principles for these combinations gave rise influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the to a merger reserve in the consolidated statement of financial financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is position, being the difference between the nominal value of not control or joint control.
Generally, it is presumed that the new shares issued by the Parent Company for the acquisition of Group has significant influence if it has between 20% and 50% the shares of the subsidiary and the subsidiarys own share of voting rights.
Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby capital and share premium account.
These transactions have not the Group and other parties that have joint control of the been restated, as permitted by the IFRS 1 transitional arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint venture.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an The merger reserve is also used where more than 90% of arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the the shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the consideration relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties includes the issue of new shares by the Company, thereby sharing control.
In a number of these, the Groups share of the attracting merger relief under the Companies Act 1985 and, underlying assets and liabilities may be greater than 50% but from 1 October 2009, the Companies Act 2006. the terms of the relevant agreements make it clear that control is not exercised.
Such jointly controlled entities are referred to as Investment vehicles joint ventures in these financial statements.
In several countries, the Group has invested in a number of Gains on transactions between the Group and its associates specialised investment vehicles such as Open-ended Investment and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups Companies OEICs and unit trusts.
These invest mainly in interest in the associates and joint ventures.
Losses are also equities, bonds, cash and cash equivalents, and properties, and eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an distribute most of their income.
The Groups percentage impairment of the asset transferred between entities.
ownership in these vehicles can fluctuate from day to day Other than investments in investment vehicles which are according to the Groups and third-party participation in them.
carried at fair value through profit or loss, investments in When assessing control over investment vehicles, the Group associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity considers the scope of its decision-making authority including its method of accounting.
Under this method, the cost of the ability to direct the relevant activities of the fund and exposure investment in a given associate or joint venture, together with to variability of returns from the perspective of an investor in the the Groups share of that entitys post-acquisition changes to fund and of the asset manager.
In addition, the Group assesses shareholders funds, is included as an asset in the consolidated rights held by other parties including substantive removal rights statement of financial position.
As explained in accounting that may affect the Groups ability to direct the relevant policy O, the cost includes goodwill identified on acquisition.
activities and indicate that the group does not have power.
The Groups share of their post-acquisition profits or losses is Where Group companies are deemed to control such vehicles, recognised in the income statement and its share of postthey are consolidated, with the interests of parties other than acquisition movements in reserves is recognised in reserves.
Aviva being classified as liabilities.
These appear as Net asset Equity accounting is discontinued when the Group no longer value attributable to unitholders in the consolidated statement has significant influence or joint control over the investment.
Where the Group does not control such If the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture vehicles, and these investments are held by its insurance or equals or exceeds its interest in the undertaking, the Group investment funds, they are carried at fair value through profit or does not recognise further losses unless it has incurred loss within financial investments in the consolidated statement obligations or made payments on behalf of the entity.
114 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 The Companys investments in the same instrument i. e. without modification or In the Company statement of financial position, subsidiaries, repackaging, or is based on a valuation technique whose associates and joint ventures are stated at their fair values, variables include only data from observable markets, then the estimated using applicable valuation models underpinned by the difference between the fair value at initial recognition and the Companys market capitalisation.
These investments are transaction price is recognised as a gain or loss in the income classified as available for sale AFS financial assets, with statement.
When unobservable market data have a significant changes in their fair value being recognised in other impact on the valuation of financial instruments, the difference comprehensive income and recorded in a separate investment between the fair value at initial recognition and the transaction valuation reserve within equity.
price is not recognised immediately in the income statement, but deferred and recognised in the income statement on E Foreign currency translation an appropriate basis over the life of the instrument but no later than when the valuation is supported wholly by Income statements and cash flows of foreign entities are observable market data or the transaction is closed out translated into the Groups presentation currency at average or otherwise matured.
exchange rates for the year while their statements of financial If an asset or a liability measured at fair value has a bid price position are translated at the year-end exchange rates.
and an ask price, the price within the bid-ask spread that is Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net most representative of fair value in the circumstances is used to investment in foreign subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, measure fair value.
and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other G Product classification comprehensive income and taken to the currency translation reserve within equity.
On disposal of a foreign entity, such Insurance contracts are defined as those containing significant exchange differences are transferred out of this reserve and are insurance risk if, and only if, an insured event could cause an recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss insurer to make significant additional payments in any scenario, on sale.
The cumulative translation differences were deemed to excluding scenarios that lack commercial substance, at the be zero at the transition date to IFRS.
Such contracts remain insurance Foreign currency transactions are accounted for at the contracts until all rights and obligations are extinguished or exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Contracts can be reclassified as insurance contracts after and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions, inception if insurance risk becomes significant.
Any contracts and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities not considered to be insurance contracts under IFRS are denominated in foreign currencies, are recognised in the classified as investment contracts.
Some insurance and income statement.
investment contracts contain a discretionary participation Translation differences on debt securities and other feature, which is a contractual right to receive additional monetary financial assets measured at fair value and designated benefits as a supplement to guaranteed benefits.
These are as held at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL see referred to as participating contracts.
accounting policy T are included in foreign exchange gains and As noted in accounting policy A above, insurance contracts losses in the income statement.
For monetary financial assets and participating investment contracts in general continue to be designated as Available for Sale AFS, translation differences are measured and accounted for under existing accounting calculated as if they were carried at amortised cost and so are practices at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or the date recognised in the income statement, whilst foreign exchange of the acquisition of the entity, in accordance with IFRS 4. differences arising from fair value gains and losses are Accounting for insurance contracts in UK companies is recognised in other comprehensive income and included in the determined in accordance with the Statement of Recommended investment valuation reserve within equity.
Translation Practice issued by the Association of British Insurers, the most differences on non-monetary items, such as equities which are recent version of which was issued in December 2005 and designated as FVTPL, are reported as part of the fair value gain amended in December 2006.
In certain businesses, the or loss, whereas such differences on AFS equities are included in accounting policies or accounting estimates have been changed, the investment valuation reserve.
as permitted by IFRS 4 and IAS 8 respectively, to remeasure designated insurance liabilities to reflect current market interest F Fair value measurement rates and changes to regulatory capital requirements.
When Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or accounting policies or accounting estimates have been changed, and adjustments to the measurement basis have occurred, the paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between financial statements of that year will have disclosed the impacts market participants at the measurement date, regardless of accordingly.
One such example is our adoption of Financial whether that price is directly observable or estimated using Reporting Standard 27 Life Assurance FRS 27 which was issued another valuation technique.
This presumes that the transaction by the UKs Accounting Standards Board ASB in December takes place in the principal or most advantageous market 2004.
Aviva, along with other major insurance companies and under current market conditions.
Fair value is a market-based the ABI, signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the ASB, measure and in the absence of observable market prices in an under which we voluntarily agreed to adopt in full the standard active market, it is measured using the assumptions that market from 2005 in the Groups IFRS financial statements.
FRS 27 adds participants would use when pricing the asset or liability.
to the requirements of IFRS but does not vary them in any way.
The fair value of a non-financial asset is determined based The additional requirements of FRS 27 are detailed in on its highest and best use from a market participants accounting policy L below and in note 57. perspective.
When using this approach, the Group takes into account the assets use that is physically possible, legally H Premiums earned permissible and financially feasible.
The best evidence of the fair value of a financial instrument Premiums on long-term insurance contracts and participating at initial recognition is normally the transaction price i. e. the fair investment contracts are recognised as income when receivable, value of the consideration given or received.
In certain except for investment-linked premiums which are accounted for circumstances, the fair value at initial recognition may differ when the corresponding liabilities are recognised.
For single from the transaction price.
If the fair value is evidenced by premium business, this is the date from which the policy is comparison with other observable current market transactions effective.
For regular premium contracts, receivables are Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 115 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 recognised at the date when payments are due.
Premiums are received, net of transaction costs, and its original cost or shown before deduction of commission and before any salesamortised cost, as appropriate.
Where policies lapse due to non-receipt Unrealised gains and losses, arising on investments which of premiums, then all the related premium income accrued but have not been derecognised as a result of disposal or transfer, not received from the date they are deemed to have lapsed is represent the difference between the carrying value at the year offset against premiums.
end and the carrying value at the previous year end or purchase General insurance and health premiums written reflect value during the year, less the reversal of previously recognised business incepted during the year, and exclude any sales-based unrealised gains and losses in respect of disposals made during taxes or duties.
Unearned premiums are those proportions of the year.
Realised gains or losses on investment property the premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after represent the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the statement of financial position date.
Unearned premiums the carrying amount of the property.
are calculated on either a daily or monthly pro rata basis.
Premiums collected by intermediaries, but not yet received, are L Insurance and participating investment assessed based on estimates from underwriting or past contract liabilities experience, and are included in premiums written.
Claims Deposits collected under investment contracts without a Long-term business claims reflect the cost of all claims arising discretionary participation feature non-participating contracts during the year, including claims handling costs, as well as are not accounted for through the income statement, except for policyholder bonuses accrued in anticipation of bonus the fee income covered in accounting policy I and the declarations.
investment income attributable to those contracts, but are General insurance and health claims incurred include all accounted for directly through the statement of financial losses occurring during the year, whether reported or not, position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
related handling costs, a reduction for the value of salvage and other recoveries, and any adjustments to claims outstanding I Other investment contract fee revenue from previous years.
Investment contract policyholders are charged fees for policy Claims handling costs include internal and external costs administration, investment management, surrenders or other incurred in connection with the negotiation and settlement of contract services.
The fees may be for fixed amounts or vary claims.
Internal costs include all direct expenses of the claims with the amounts being managed, and will generally be department and any part of the general administrative costs charged as an adjustment to the policyholders balance.
The directly attributable to the claims function.
fees are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are Long-term business provisions collected unless they relate to services to be provided in future Under current IFRS requirements, insurance and participating periods, in which case they are deferred and recognised as the investment contract liabilities are measured using accounting service is provided.
policies consistent with those adopted previously under existing Initiation and other front-end fees fees that are assessed accounting practices, with the exception of liabilities against the policyholder balance as consideration for origination remeasured to reflect current market interest rates to be of the contract are charged on some non-participating consistent with the value of the backing assets, and those investment and investment fund management contracts.
Where relating to UK with-profit and non-profit contracts.
For liabilities the investment contract is recorded at amortised cost, these fees relating to UK with-profit contracts, the Group has adopted FRS are deferred and recognised over the expected term of the 27 Life Assurance, as described in policy G above, in addition to policy by an adjustment to the effective yield.
Where the the requirements of IFRS.
investment contract is measured at fair value, the front-end fees In the United States, shadow adjustments were made to the that relate to the provision of investment management services liabilities or related deferred acquisition costs and were are deferred and recognised as the services are provided.
recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
This means J Other fee and commission income that the measurement of these items was adjusted for unrealised gains or losses on the backing assets such as AFS Other fee and commission income consists primarily of fund financial investments see accounting policy T, that were management fees, distribution fees from mutual funds, recognised directly in other comprehensive income, in the same commissions on reinsurance ceded, commission revenue from way as if those gains or losses had been realised.
the sale of mutual fund shares and transfer agent fees for The long-term business provisions are calculated separately for shareholder record keeping.
Reinsurance commissions receivable each life operation, based either on local regulatory requirements or are deferred in the same way as acquisition costs, as described existing local GAAP at the later of the date of transition to IFRS or in accounting policy X.
All other fee and commission income is the date of the acquisition of the entity, and actuarial principles recognised as the services are provided.
consistent with those applied in the UK.
Each calculation represents a determination within a range of possible outcomes, where the K Net investment income assumptions used in the calculations depend on the circumstances Investment income consists of dividends, interest and rents prevailing in each life operation.
The principal assumptions are receivable for the year, movements in amortised cost on debt disclosed in note 41 b.
For liabilities of the UK with-profit funds, securities, realised gains and losses, and unrealised gains and FRS 27 requires liabilities to be calculated as the realistic basis losses on FV investments as defined in accounting policy T. liabilities as set out by the UKs Prudential Regulation Authority Dividends on equity securities are recorded as revenue on the PRA, adjusted to remove the shareholders share of future ex-dividend date.
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, bonuses.
For UK non-profit insurance contracts, the Group applies taking into account the effective yield on the investment.
It regulatory requirements, adjusted to remove certain regulatory includes the interest rate differential on forward foreign reserves and margins in assumptions, notably for annuity business.
Rental income is recognised on an accruals On 1 April 2013 the rules made by the FSA were designated by basis, and is recognised on a straight line basis unless there is the PRA.
compelling evidence that benefits do not accrue evenly over the period of the lease.
A gain or loss on a financial investment is only realised on disposal or transfer, and is the difference between the proceeds 116 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Unallocated divisible surplus this provision is taken to the income statement as recognition of In certain participating long-term insurance and investment revenue over the period of risk.
business, the nature of the policy benefits is such that the Liability adequacy division between shareholder reserves and policyholder liabilities At each reporting date, the Group reviews its unexpired risks is uncertain.
Amounts whose allocation to either policyholders and carries out a liability adequacy test for any overall excess of or shareholders has not been determined by the end of the expected claims and deferred acquisition costs over unearned financial year are held within liabilities as an unallocated divisible premiums, using the current estimates of future cash flows surplus.
under its contracts after taking account of the investment return If the aggregate carrying value of liabilities for a particular expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant general participating business fund is in excess of the aggregate carrying business provisions.
If these estimates show that the carrying value of its assets, then the difference is held as a negative amount of its insurance liabilities less related deferred unallocated divisible surplus balance, subject to recoverability acquisition costs is insufficient in light of the estimated future from margins in that funds participating business.
Any excess cash flows, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement of this difference over the recoverable amount is charged to net by setting up a provision in the statement of financial position.
income in the reporting period.
Other assessments and levies Embedded derivatives The Group is subject to various periodic insurance-related Embedded derivatives that meet the definition of an insurance assessments or guarantee fund levies.
Related provisions are contract or correspond to options to surrender insurance established where there is a present obligation legal or contracts for a set amount or based on a fixed amount and an constructive as a result of a past event.
Such amounts are not interest rate are not separately measured.
All other embedded included in insurance liabilities but are included under derivatives are separated and measured at fair value if they are Provisions in the statement of financial position.
not considered as closely related to the host insurance contract or do not meet the definition of an insurance contract.
Fair M Non-participating investment value reflects own credit risk to the extent the embedded derivative is not fully collateralised.
contract liabilities Claims Liability adequacy For non-participating investment contracts with an account At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether the balance, claims reflect the excess of amounts paid over the recognised long-term business provisions are adequate, using account balance released.
current estimates of future cash flows.
If that assessment shows that the carrying amount of the liabilities less related assets is Contract liabilities insufficient in light of the estimated future cash flows, the Deposits collected under non-participating investment contracts deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up are not accounted for through the income statement, except for an additional provision in the statement of financial position.
the investment income attributable to those contracts, but are accounted for directly through the statement of financial General insurance and health provisions position as an adjustment to the investment contract liability.
Outstanding claims provisions The majority of the Groups contracts classified as nonGeneral insurance and health outstanding claims provisions are participating investment contracts are unit-linked contracts and based on the estimated ultimate cost of all claims incurred but are measured at fair value.
Certain liabilities for non-linked nonnot settled at the statement of financial position date, whether participating contracts are measured at amortised cost.
reported or not, together with related claims handling costs.
The fair value liability is determined in accordance with IAS Significant delays are experienced in the notification and 39, using a valuation technique to provide a reliable estimate settlement of certain types of general insurance claims, of the amount for which the liability could be transferred in particularly in respect of liability business, including an orderly transaction between market participants at the environmental and pollution exposures, the ultimate cost of measurement date, subject to a minimum equal to the which cannot be known with certainty at the statement of surrender value.
For unit-linked contracts, the fair value liability financial position date.
As such, booked claim provisions for is equal to the current unit fund value, plus additional non-unit general insurance and health insurance are based on the best reserves if required based on a discounted cash flow analysis.
estimate of the cost of future claim payments plus an explicit For non-linked contracts, the fair value liability is based on a allowance for risk and uncertainty.
Any estimate represents a discounted cash flow analysis, with allowance for risk calibrated determination within a range of possible outcomes.
Further to match the market price for risk.
details of estimation techniques are given in note 41 c. Amortised cost is calculated as the fair value of Provisions for latent claims are discounted, using rates based consideration received at the date of initial recognition, less the on the relevant swap curve, in the relevant currency at the net effect of payments such as transaction costs and front-end reporting date, having regard to the expected settlement dates fees, plus or minus the cumulative amortisation using the of the claims.
The discount rate is set at the start of the effective interest rate method of any difference between that accounting period with any change in rates between the start initial amount and the maturity value, and less any write-down and end of the accounting period being reflected below for surrender payments.
The effective interest rate is the one operating profit as an economic assumption change.
The range that equates the discounted cash payments to the initial of discount rates used is described in note 41 c ii.
At each reporting date, the amortised cost liability is claims provisions are valued net of an allowance for expected determined as the value of future best estimate cash flows future recoveries.
Recoveries include non-insurance assets that discounted at the effective interest rate.
have been acquired by exercising rights to salvage and subrogation under the terms of insurance contracts.
N Reinsurance The Group assumes and cedes reinsurance in the normal course Provision for unearned premiums of business, with retention limits varying by line of business.
The proportion of written premiums, gross of commission Premiums on reinsurance assumed are recognised as revenue payable to intermediaries, attributable to subsequent periods is in the same manner as they would be if the reinsurance were deferred as a provision for unearned premiums.
The change in considered direct business, taking into account the product Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 117 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 classification of the reinsured business.
The cost of reinsurance Intangible assets Intangibles consist primarily of contractual relationships such related to long-duration contracts is accounted for over the life of the underlying reinsured policies, using assumptions as access to distribution networks and customer lists.
The economic lives of these are determined by considering relevant consistent with those used to account for these policies.
Where general insurance liabilities are discounted, any factors such as usage of the asset, typical product life cycles, potential obsolescence, maintenance costs, the stability of the corresponding reinsurance assets are also discounted using consistent assumptions.
industry, competitive position and the period of control over the assets.
These intangibles are amortised over their useful Gains or losses on buying retroactive reinsurance are recognised in the income statement immediately at the date of purchase and lives, which range from five to 30 years, using the straightline method.
Premiums ceded and claims reimbursed are presented on a gross basis in the consolidated income statement The amortisation charge for the year is included in the income statement under Other expenses.
For intangibles with and statement of financial position as appropriate.
Reinsurance assets primarily include balances due from both finite lives, impairment charges will be recognised in the income statement where evidence of such impairment is observed.
insurance and reinsurance companies for ceded insurance and investment contract liabilities.
This includes balances in respect Intangibles with indefinite lives are subject to regular impairment testing, as described below.
of investment contracts which are legally reinsurance contracts but do not meet the definition of a reinsurance contract under Impairment testing IFRS.
Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a For impairment testing, goodwill and intangibles with indefinite manner consistent with the underlying contract liabilities, useful lives have been allocated to cash-generating units.
The outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets with the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant indefinite useful lives is reviewed at least annually or when reinsurance contract.
circumstances or events indicate there may be uncertainty over Reinsurance of non-participating investment contracts and this value.
Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are written reinsurance contracts that principally transfer financial risk are down for impairment where the recoverable amount is accounted for directly through the statement of financial insufficient to support its carrying value.
A deposit asset or liability is recognised, based on the goodwill allocation and impairment testing are given in note 17. consideration paid or received less any explicitly identified premiums or fees to be retained by the reinsured.
These deposit P Property and equipment assets or liabilities are shown within reinsurance assets in the Owner-occupied properties are carried at their revalued consolidated statement of financial position.
amounts, and movements are recognised in other If a reinsurance asset is impaired, the Group reduces the comprehensive income and taken to a separate reserve within carrying amount accordingly and recognises that impairment equity.
When such properties are sold, the accumulated loss in the income statement.
A reinsurance asset is impaired if revaluation surpluses are transferred from this reserve to there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred retained earnings.
These properties are depreciated down to after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset, that the Group their estimated residual values over their useful lives.
All other may not receive all amounts due to it under the terms of the items classed as property and equipment within the statement contract, and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the of financial position are carried at historical cost less amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
Investment properties under construction are included O Goodwill, AVIF and intangible assets within property and equipment until completion, and are stated Goodwill at cost less any provision for impairment in their values until Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over construction is completed or fair value becomes reliably the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the measurable.
acquired subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to acquisition.
Goodwill on acquisitions prior to 1 January 2004 write-down the cost of other assets to their residual values over the date of transition to IFRS is carried at its book value their estimated useful lives as follows: original cost less cumulative amortisation on that date, less any impairment subsequently incurred.
Goodwill arising before 1 Properties under construction No depreciation January 1998 was eliminated against reserves and has not been Owner-occupied properties, 25 years reinstated.
Goodwill arising on the Groups investments in and related mechanical and subsidiaries since that date is shown as a separate asset, whilst electrical equipment that on associates and joint ventures is included within the Motor vehicles Three years, or lease term carrying value of those investments.
up to useful life if longer Acquired value of in-force business AVIF Computer equipment Three to five years The present value of future profits on a portfolio of long-term Other assets Three to five years insurance and investment contracts, acquired either directly or through the purchase of a subsidiary, is recognised as an asset.
The assets residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation If the AVIF results from the acquisition of an investment in a are reviewed regularly, and at least at each financial year end, and joint venture or an associate, it is held within the carrying adjusted if appropriate.
Where the carrying amount of an asset is amount of that investment.
In all cases, the AVIF is amortised greater than its estimated recoverable amount, it is written down over the useful lifetime of the related contracts in the portfolio immediately to its recoverable amount.
Gains and losses on disposal on a systematic basis.
The rate of amortisation is chosen by of property and equipment are determined by reference to their considering the profile of the additional value of in-force carrying amount.
business acquired and the expected depletion in its value.
The Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition and value of the acquired in-force long-term business is reviewed construction of property and equipment are capitalised.
All annually for any impairment in value and any reductions are repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income charged as expenses in the income statement.
statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
The cost of major renovations is included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in 118 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 excess of the most recently assessed standard of performance of acquires with the intention to resell in the short term, are the existing asset will flow to the Group and the renovation classified as trading, as are non-hedge derivatives see replaces an identifiable part of the asset.
Major renovations are accounting policy U below.
The AFS category is used where the depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset.
relevant long-term business liability including shareholders funds is passively managed, as well as in certain fund Q Investment property management and non-insurance operations.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on the Investment property is held for long-term rental yields and is not trade date, which is the date that the Group commits to occupied by the Group.
Completed investment property is purchase or sell the assets, at their fair values.
Debt securities stated at its fair value, as assessed by qualified external valuers are initially recorded at their fair value, which is taken to be or by local qualified staff of the Group.
Changes in fair values amortised cost, with amortisation credited or charged to the are recorded in the income statement in net investment income.
Investments classified as trading, other than As described in accounting policy P above, investment trading and AFS, are subsequently carried at fair value.
Changes properties under construction are included within property and in the fair value of trading and other than trading investments equipment, and are stated at cost less any impairment in their are included in the income statement in the period in which values until construction is completed or fair value becomes they arise.
Changes in the fair value of securities classified reliably measurable.
as AFS are recognised in other comprehensive income and recorded in a separate investment valuation reserve R Impairment of non-financial assets within equity.
Property and equipment and other non-financial assets are Investments carried at fair value are measured using the reviewed for impairment losses whenever events or changes in methodology outlined in note 23, with values based on the circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be quoted price within the bid-ask spread that is most recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by representative of fair value or based on cash flow models using which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable market observable inputs or unobservable inputs.
amount, which is the higher of an assets fair value less costs of When securities classified as AFS are sold or impaired, the disposal and value in use.
For the purposes of assessing accumulated fair value adjustments are transferred out of the impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which investment valuation reserve to the income statement with a there are separately identifiable cash flows.
Non-financial assets corresponding movement through other comprehensive income.
except goodwill which have suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each Impairment reporting date.
The Group reviews the carrying value of its AFS investments on a regular basis.
If the carrying value of an AFS investment is S Derecognition and offset of financial assets greater than the recoverable amount, the carrying value is and financial liabilities reduced through a charge to the income statement in the A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset period of impairment.
The following policies are used to or part of a group of similar financial assets is derecognised determine the level of any impairment, some of which involve where: considerable judgement: The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired.
The Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the AFS debt securities: An AFS debt security is impaired if there is asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full objective evidence that a loss event has occurred which has without material delay to a third party under a passimpaired the expected cash flows, i. e. where all amounts due through arrangement.
according to the contractual terms of the security are not The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows considered collectible.
An impairment charge, measured as the from the asset and has either transferred substantially all the difference between the securitys fair value and amortised cost, risks and rewards of the asset, or has neither transferred nor is recognised when the issuer is known to be either in default or retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, in financial difficulty.
Determining when an issuer is in financial but has transferred control of the asset.
difficulty requires the use of judgement, and we consider a number of factors including industry risk factors, financial A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under condition, liquidity position and near-term prospects of the the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
issuer, credit rating declines and a breach of contract.
A decline Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount in fair value below amortised cost due to changes in risk-free reported in the statement of financial position when there is a interest rates does not necessarily represent objective evidence legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and of a loss event.
there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative and settle the liability simultaneously.
unrealised loss previously recognised within the investment valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year, T Financial investments with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive The Group classifies its investments as either financial assets at income.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired fair value through profit or loss FVTPL or financial assets securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and available for sale AFS.
The classification depends on the recorded in the investment valuation reserve unless this increase purpose for which the investments were acquired, and is represents a decrease in the impairment loss that can be determined by local management at initial recognition.
The objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment FVTPL category has two subcategories those that meet the loss was recognised in the income statement.
In such an event, definition as being held for trading and those the Group the reversal of the impairment loss is recognised as a gain in the chooses to designate as FVTPL referred to in this accounting income statement.
policy as other than trading upon initial recognition.
In general, the other than trading category is used as, in most cases, the Groups investment or risk management strategy is to manage its financial investments on a fair value basis.
Debt securities and equity securities, which the Group Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 119 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 AFS equity securities: An AFS equity security is considered Accounting policy W below covers collateral, both received and impaired if there is objective evidence that the cost may not be pledged, in respect of these derivatives.
In addition to qualitative impairment criteria, such Interest rate and currency swaps evidence includes a significant or prolonged decline in fair value Interest rate swaps are contractual agreements between two below cost.
Unless there is evidence to the contrary, an equity parties to exchange fixed rate and floating rate interest by security is considered impaired if the decline in fair value relative means of periodic payments, computed on a specified notional to cost has been either at least 20% for a continuous six-month amount and defined interest rates.
Most interest rate swap period or more than 40% at the end of the reporting period, or payments are netted against each other, with the difference been in an unrealised loss position for a continuous period of between the fixed and floating rate interest payments paid by more than 12 months at the end of the reporting period.
Currency swaps, in their simplest form, are also review our largest equity holdings for evidence of contractual agreements that involve the exchange of both impairment, as well as individual equity holdings in industry periodic and final amounts in two different currencies.
Both sectors known to be in difficulty.
Where there is objective types of swap contracts may include the net exchange of evidence that impairment exists, the security is written down principal.
Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts will regardless of the size of the unrealised loss.
increase or decrease over their respective lives as a function of For securities identified as being impaired, the cumulative maturity dates, interest and foreign exchange rates, and the unrealised loss previously recognised within the investment timing of payments.
valuation reserve is transferred to realised losses for the year with a corresponding movement through other comprehensive Interest rate futures, forwards and options contracts income.
Any subsequent increase in fair value of these impaired Interest rate futures are exchange-traded instruments and securities is recognised in other comprehensive income and represent commitments to purchase or sell a designated security recorded in the investment valuation reserve.
or money market instrument at a specified future date and Reversals of impairments on any of these assets are only price.
Interest rate forward agreements are OTC contracts in recognised where the decrease in the impairment can be which two parties agree on an interest rate and other terms that objectively related to an event occurring after the write-down will become a reference point in determining, in concert with an such as an improvement in the debtors credit rating, and are agreed notional principal amount, a net payment to be made by not recognised in respect of equity instruments.
one party to the other, depending what rate in fact prevails at a future point in time.
Interest rate options, which consist U Derivative financial instruments primarily of caps and floors, are interest rate protection and hedging instruments that involve the potential obligation of the seller to Derivative financial instruments include foreign exchange pay the buyer an interest rate differential in exchange for a contracts, interest rate futures, currency and interest rate swaps, premium paid by the buyer.
This differential represents the currency and interest rate options both written and purchased difference between current rate and an agreed rate applied to a and other financial instruments that derive their value mainly notional amount.
Exposure to gain or loss on all interest rate from underlying interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit or contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as equity indices, commodity values or equity instruments.
All derivatives are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at their fair value, which usually represents Foreign exchange contracts Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot, forward and their cost.
They are subsequently remeasured at their fair value, with the method of recognising movements in this value futures contracts, represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at depending on whether they are designated as hedging instruments and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Fair an agreed price and settlement date.
Foreign exchange option contracts are similar to interest rate option contracts, except values are obtained from quoted market prices or, if these are not available, by using valuation techniques such as discounted that they are based on currencies, rather than interest rates.
Exposure to gain or loss on these contracts will increase or cash flow models or option pricing models.
All derivatives are carried as assets when the fair values are positive and as decrease over their respective lives as currency exchange and interest rates fluctuate.
liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Premiums paid for derivatives are recorded as an asset on the statement of Derivative instruments for hedging financial position at the date of purchase, representing their fair On the date a derivative contract is entered into, the Group value at that date.
designates certain derivatives as either: Derivative contracts may be traded on an exchange or overi a hedge of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability the-counter OTC.
Exchange-traded derivatives are standardised fair value hedge : and include certain futures and option contracts.
OTC derivative ii a hedge of a future cash flow attributable to a recognised contracts are individually negotiated between contracting asset or liability, a highly probable forecast transaction or a parties and include forwards, swaps, caps and floors.
Derivatives firm commitment cash flow hedge : or are subject to various risks including market, liquidity and credit iii a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net risk, similar to those related to the underlying financial investment hedge.
Many OTC transactions are contracted and documented under International Swaps and Derivatives Hedge accounting is used for derivatives designated in this way, Association ISDA master agreements or their equivalent, which provided certain criteria are met.
At the inception of the are designed to provide legally enforceable set-off in the event transaction, the Group documents the relationship between the of default, reducing the Groups exposure to credit risk.
hedging instrument and the hedged item, as well as the risk The notional or contractual amounts associated with management objective and the strategy for undertaking the derivative financial instruments are not recorded as assets or hedge transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment liabilities on the statement of financial position as they do not of whether the hedge is expected to be, and has been, highly represent the fair value of these transactions.
These amounts effective in offsetting the risk in the hedged item, both at are disclosed in note 59 b. inception and on an ongoing basis.
The Group has collateral agreements in place between the individual Group entities and relevant counterparties.
120 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and required depends on an assessment of the credit risk of the qualify as net investment or cash flow hedges, and that prove to counterparty.
be highly effective in relation to the hedged risk, are recognised Collateral received in the form of cash, which is not legally in other comprehensive income and a separate reserve within segregated from the Group, is recognised as an asset in the equity.
Gains and losses accumulated in this reserve are included statement of financial position with a corresponding liability for in the income statement on disposal of the relevant investment the repayment in financial liabilities note 60.
However, where or occurrence of the cash flow as appropriate.
the Group has a currently enforceable legal right of set-off, the Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated collateral liability and associated derivative balances are shown and qualify as fair value hedges are recognised in the income net, in line with market practice.
Non-cash collateral received is statement.
The gain or loss on the hedged item that is not recognised in the statement of financial position unless the attributable to the hedged risk is recognised in the income Group either a sells or repledges these assets in the absence of statement.
This applies even if the hedged item is an available default, at which point the obligation to return this collateral is for sale financial asset or is measured at amortised cost.
If a recognised as a liability: or b the counterparty to the hedging relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge arrangement defaults, at which point the collateral is seized and accounting, the cumulative adjustment made to the carrying recognised as an asset.
amount of the hedged item is amortised to the income Collateral pledged in the form of cash, which is legally statement, based on a recalculated effective interest rate over segregated from the Group, is derecognised from the statement the residual period to maturity.
In cases where the hedged item of financial position with a corresponding receivable recognised has been derecognised, the cumulative adjustment is released to for its return.
Non-cash collateral pledged is not derecognised the income statement immediately.
from the statement of financial position unless the Group For a variety of reasons, certain derivative transactions, while defaults on its obligations under the relevant agreement, and providing effective economic hedges under the Groups risk therefore continues to be recognised in the statement of management positions, do not qualify for hedge accounting financial position within the appropriate asset classification.
under the specific IFRS rules and are therefore treated as derivatives held for trading.
Their fair value gains and losses are X Deferred acquisition costs and other assets recognised immediately in net investment income.
Costs relating to the acquisition of new business for insurance and participating investment contracts are deferred in line with V Loans existing local accounting practices, to the extent that they are Loans with fixed maturities, including policyholder loans, expected to be recovered out of future margins in revenues on mortgage loans on investment property, securitised mortgages these contracts.
For participating contracts written in the UK, and collateral loans, are recognised when cash is advanced to acquisition costs are generally not deferred as the liability for borrowers.
Certain loans are carried at their unpaid principal these contracts is calculated in accordance with the PRAs balances and adjusted for amortisation of premium or discount, realistic capital regime and FRS 27.
For non-participating non-refundable loan fees and related direct costs.
These investment and investment fund management contracts, amounts are deferred and amortised over the life of the loan as incremental acquisition costs and sales enhancements that are an adjustment to loan yield using the effective interest rate directly attributable to securing an investment management method.
Loans with indefinite future lives are carried at unpaid service are also deferred.
Where such business is reinsured, an appropriate proportion However, for the majority of mortgage loans, the Group has of the deferred acquisition costs is attributed to the reinsurer, taken advantage of the fair value option under IAS 39 to and is treated as a separate liability.
present the mortgages, associated borrowings and derivative Long-term business deferred acquisition costs are amortised financial instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a systematically over a period no longer than that in which they portfolio on a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more are expected to be recoverable out of these future margins.
relevant information and eliminates any accounting mismatch Deferrable acquisition costs for non-participating investment that would otherwise arise from using different measurement and investment fund management contracts are amortised over bases for these three items.
The fair values of these mortgages the period in which the service is provided.
General insurance are estimated using discounted cash flow models, based on a and health deferred acquisition costs are amortised over the risk-adjusted discount rate which reflects the risks associated period in which the related revenues are earned.
The reinsurers with these products.
They are revalued at each period end, share of deferred acquisition costs is amortised in the same with movements in their fair values being taken to the manner as the underlying asset.
Deferred acquisition costs are reviewed by category of At each reporting date, we review loans carried at amortised business at the end of each reporting period and are written-off cost for objective evidence that they are impaired and where they are no longer considered to be recoverable.
uncollectable, either at the level of an individual security or Other receivables and payables are initially recognised at collectively within a group of loans with similar credit risk cost, being fair value.
Subsequent to initial measurement they characteristics.
To the extent that a loan is uncollectable, it is are measured at amortised cost.
written down as impaired to its recoverable amount, measured as the present value of expected future cash flows discounted Y Statement of cash flows at the original effective interest rate of the loan, taking into Cash and cash equivalents account the fair value of the underlying collateral.
Subsequent Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at banks and in hand, recoveries in excess of the loans written-down carrying value deposits held at call with banks, treasury bills and other shortare credited to the income statement.
term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an W Collateral insignificant risk of change in value.
Such investments are those The Group receives and pledges collateral in the form of cash or with less than three months maturity from the date of non-cash assets in respect of stock lending transactions, certain acquisition, or which are redeemable on demand with only an derivative contracts and loans, in order to reduce the credit risk insignificant change in their fair values.
Collateral is also pledged as security for bank letters of credit.
The amount and type of collateral Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 121 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash it agrees to contribute to a fund and there is no obligation to equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are included in pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient payables and other financial liabilities on the statement of assets to pay benefits.
A defined benefit pension plan is a financial position.
pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan and typically defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will Operating cash flows receive on retirement.
Purchases and sales of investment property, loans and financial The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent investments are included within operating cash flows as the actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The pension purchases are funded from cash flows associated with the obligation is measured as the present value of the estimated origination of insurance and investment contracts, net of future cash outflows, using a discount rate based on market payments of related benefits and claims.
yields for high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have Z Leases terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related Leases, where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of pension liability.
The resultant net surplus or deficit recognised ownership is retained by the lessor, are classified as operating as an asset or liability on the statement of financial position is leases.
Where the Group is the lessee, payments made under the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis If the fair value of plan assets exceeds the present value of over the term of the relevant leases.
the defined benefit obligation, the resultant asset is limited to Where the Group is the lessor, lease income from operating the asset ceiling defined as present value of economic benefits leases is recognised in the income statement on a straight-line available in the form of future refunds from the plan or basis over the lease term.
reductions in contributions to the plan.
In order to calculate the When assets are subject to finance leases, the present value present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to of the lease payments, together with any unguaranteed residual any minimum funding requirements that apply to any plan in value, is recognised as a receivable.
The Group has not entered the Group.
into any material finance lease arrangements either as lessor Remeasurements of defined benefit plans comprise actuarial or lessee.
gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions, the return on plan assets AA Provisions and contingent liabilities excluding net interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal any.
The Group recognises remeasurements immediately in other comprehensive income and does not reclassify them to or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more probable than not that an outflow of resources embodying the income statement in subsequent periods.
Service costs comprising current service costs, past service economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be costs, gains and losses on curtailments and net interest expense income are charged or credited to the income made.
Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments.
Past service costs are recognised at the earlier of the date only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those that are necessarily entailed by the the plan amendment or curtailment occurs or when related restructuring costs are recognised.
restructuring: and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
The amount recorded as a provision is the best The Group determines the net interest expense income on the net defined benefit liability asset for the period by applying estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date.
Where the effect of the the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period of the net time value of money is material, the provision is the present value of the expected expenditure.
Provisions are not recognised defined benefit liability asset.
Net interest expense is charged to finance costs, whereas net interest income is credited to for future operating losses.
Where the Group expects a provision to be reimbursed, for investment income.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the to publicly or privately administered pension plans.
Once the contributions have been paid, the Group, as employer, has no reimbursement is virtually certain.
The Group recognises a provision for onerous contracts further payment obligations.
The Groups contributions are charged to the income statement in the year to which they when the expected benefits to be derived from a contract are less than the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations relate and are included in staff costs.
Contingent liabilities are disclosed if there is Other post-employment obligations a possible future obligation as a result of a past event, or if Some Group companies provide post-employment healthcare or there is a present obligation as a result of a past event but either other benefits to their retirees.
The entitlement to these benefits a payment is not probable or the amount cannot be reasonably is usually based on the employee remaining in service up to estimated.
retirement age and the completion of a minimum service period.
Unlike the pension schemes, no assets are set aside in AB Employee benefits separate funds to provide for the future liability but none of Annual leave these schemes is material to the Group.
The costs of the Employee entitlements to annual leave are recognised when Canadian scheme are included within those for the defined they accrue to employees.
A provision is made for the estimated benefit pension schemes in that country.
For such schemes in liability for annual leave as a result of services rendered by other countries, provisions are calculated in line with local employees up to the statement of financial position date.
regulations, with movements being charged to the income statement within staff costs.
Pension obligations The Group operates a number of pension schemes, whose Equity compensation plans members receive benefits on either a defined benefit or defined The Group offers share award and option plans over the contribution basis.
Under a defined contribution plan, the Companys ordinary shares for certain employees, including a Groups legal or constructive obligation is limited to the amount 122 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Save As You Earn plan SAYE plan, details of which are given in Current and deferred tax relating to items recognised in other the Directors Remuneration Report and in note 32. comprehensive income and directly in equity are similarly The Group accounts for options and awards under equity recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity compensation plans, which were granted after 7 November respectively.
Deferred tax related to fair value re-measurement 2002, until such time as they are fully vested, using the fair of available for sale investments, pensions and other postvalue based method of accounting the fair value method.
retirement obligations and other amounts charged or credited Under this method, the cost of providing equity compensation directly to other comprehensive income is recognised in the plans is based on the fair value of the share awards or option statement of financial position as a deferred tax asset or liability.
plans at date of grant, which is recognised in the income Current tax on interest paid on direct capital instruments and statement over the expected vesting period of the related fixed rate tier 1 notes is credited directly in equity.
employees and credited to the equity compensation reserve, In addition to paying tax on shareholders profits, the Groups part of shareholders funds.
In certain jurisdictions, awards must life businesses in the UK, Ireland and Singapore pay tax on be settled in cash instead of shares, and the credit is taken to policyholders investment returns policyholder tax on certain liabilities rather than reserves.
The fair value of these cashproducts at policyholder tax rates.
Policyholder tax is accounted for settled awards is recalculated each year, with the income as an income tax and is included in the total tax expense.
The statement charge and liability being adjusted accordingly.
Group has decided to show separately the amounts of policyholder As described in accounting policy AE below, shares tax to provide a more meaningful measure of the tax the Group purchased by employee share trusts to fund these awards pays on its profits.
In the pro forma reconciliations, operating profit are shown as a deduction from shareholders funds at their has been calculated after charging policyholder tax.
When the options are exercised and new shares are issued, AD Borrowings the proceeds received, net of any transaction costs, are credited Borrowings are classified as being for either core structural or to share capital par value and the balance to share premium.
They are recognised initially at their issue Where the shares are already held by employee trusts, the net proceeds less transaction costs incurred.
Subsequently, most proceeds are credited against the cost of these shares, with the borrowings are stated at amortised cost, and any difference difference between cost and proceeds being taken to retained between net proceeds and the redemption value is recognised earnings.
In both cases, the relevant amount in the equity in the income statement over the period of the borrowings compensation reserve is then credited to retained earnings.
using the effective interest rate method.
All borrowing costs are expensed as they are incurred except where they are directly AC Income taxes attributable to the acquisition or construction of property and The current tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the equipment as described in accounting policy P above.
year, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
Tax, Where loan notes have been issued in connection with including tax relief for losses if applicable, is allocated over certain securitised mortgage loans, the Group has taken profits before taxation and amounts charged or credited to advantage of the revised fair value option under IAS 39 to components of other comprehensive income and equity, present the mortgages, associated liabilities and derivative as appropriate.
financial instruments at fair value, since they are managed as a Provision is made for deferred tax liabilities, or credit taken portfolio on a fair value basis.
This presentation provides more for deferred tax assets, using the liability method, on all material relevant information and eliminates any accounting mismatch temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and which would otherwise arise from using different measurement liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated bases for these three items.
The principal temporary differences arise from depreciation AE Share capital and treasury shares of property and equipment, revaluation of certain financial Equity instruments assets and liabilities including derivative contracts, technical An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a residual provisions and other insurance items, provisions for pensions interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all its liabilities.
and other post-retirement benefits and tax losses carried Accordingly, a financial instrument is treated as equity if: forward: and, in relation to acquisitions, on the difference i there is no contractual obligation to deliver cash or other between the fair values of the net assets acquired and their financial assets or to exchange financial assets or liabilities tax base.
The rates enacted or substantively enacted at the on terms that may be unfavourable: and statement of financial position date are used to value the ii the instrument is a non-derivative that contains no deferred tax assets and liabilities.
contractual obligation to deliver a variable number of shares Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is or is a derivative that will be settled only by the Group probable that future taxable profit will be available against exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other assets for a which the temporary differences can be utilised.
In countries fixed number of the Groups own equity instruments.
where there is a history of tax losses, deferred tax assets are Share issue costs only recognised in excess of deferred tax liabilities if there is Incremental external costs directly attributable to the issue of convincing evidence that future profits will be available.
new shares are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising the proceeds of the issue and disclosed where material.
from investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary Dividends difference can be controlled and it is probable that the Interim dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends on these Deferred taxes are not provided in respect of temporary shares are recognised when they have been approved by differences arising from the initial recognition of goodwill, or shareholders.
Dividends on preference shares are recognised from goodwill for which amortisation is not deductible for tax in the period in which they are declared and appropriately purposes, or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in approved.
a transaction which is not a business combination and affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 123 Aviva plc Accounting policies continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Treasury shares Where the Company or its subsidiaries purchase the Companys share capital or obtain rights to purchase its share capital, the consideration paid including any attributable transaction costs net of income taxes is shown as a deduction from total shareholders equity.
The Groups only such holding comprises shares purchased by employee trusts to fund certain awards under the equity compensation plans described in accounting policy AB above.
Gains and losses on sales of own shares are charged or credited to the treasury share account in equity.
AF Fiduciary activities Assets and income arising from fiduciary activities, together with related undertakings to return such assets to customers, are excluded from these financial statements where the Group has no contractual rights in the assets and acts in a fiduciary capacity such as nominee, trustee or agent.
AG Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income available to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased by the Group and held as Treasury shares.
Earnings per share has also been calculated on the adjusted operating profit before impairment of goodwill and other adjusting items, after tax, attributable to ordinary shareholders, as the directors believe this figure provides a better indication of operating performance.
Details are given in note 15.
For the diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, such as convertible debt and share options granted to employees.
Potential or contingent share issuances are treated as dilutive when their conversion to shares would decrease net losses earnings per share.
AH Operations held for sale Assets and liabilities held for disposal as part of operations which are held for sale are shown separately in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Operations held for sale are recorded at the lower of their carrying amount and their fair value less the estimated selling costs.
