288 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Our UK fund management companies manage most of the Related party disclosures assets held by the Groups main UK staff pension scheme, for Related party transactions which they charge fees based on the level of funds under For more information relating to related party transactions, management.
The main UK scheme holds investments in Groupincluding more information about the transactions described managed funds and insurance policies with other Group below, please see IFRS Financial Statements note 61 Related companies, as explained in IFRS Financial statements party transactions.
Subsidiaries The related parties receivables are not secured and no guarantees were received in respect thereof.
The receivables will Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
be settled in accordance with normal credit terms.
Details of guarantees, indemnities and warranties provided on behalf of Key management compensation related parties are given in IFRS Financial statements The total compensation to those employees classified as key note 53 f. management, being those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Loans to joint ventures We make loans to our property management joint ventures to Group, including the executive and non-executive directors is as follows: fund property developments which we undertake with our joint venture partners.
Movements in these loans may be found in 2013 2012 2011 IFRS Financial Statements note 19 Interests in, and loans to, m m m joint ventures.
Total loans at 31 December 2013 and 2012 are Salary and other short-term benefits 5.3 4.7 6.7 Post-employment benefits 1.1 1.9 1.7 shown in the table below: Equity compensation plans 3.3 4.8 5.9 1 Termination benefits 1.1 1.5 0.7 2013 2012 m m Other long term benefits 1.6 0.4 2.8 Loans to joint ventures 24 43 Total 12.4 13.3 17.8 1 Comprises the impact of the adoption of IFRS 10 on the prior year comparative and the resulting consolidation and deconsolidation of entities based on the revised definition and criteria of control outlined in accounting policy D. See note IFRS Financial Statements note 1 for further details.
Various directors and key management of Aviva may from time to time purchase insurance, asset management or annuity Dividend data products from Aviva Group companies in the ordinary course of The Company has a policy to pay a progressive dividend with business on substantially the same terms, including interest rates reference to growth in cash flows and earnings.
Under UK and security requirements, as those prevailing at the time for company law, we may only pay dividends if the company has comparable transactions with other persons.
Distributable profits are Apart from the disclosed transactions discussed above and accumulated, realised profits not previously distributed or in the Governance section of this report, no director had an capitalised, less accumulated, unrealised losses not previously interest in shares, transactions or arrangements that requires written off based on IFRS.
Even if distributable profits are available, disclosure under applicable rules and regulations.
we pay dividends only if the amount of our net assets is not less Other related parties than the aggregate of our called-up share capital and The Group received income from and paid expenses to other undistributable reserves and the payment of the dividend does not related parties from transactions made in the normal course of reduce the amount of our net assets to less than that aggregate.
Loans to other related parties are made on normal As a holding company, the Company is dependent upon arms length commercial terms.
dividends and interest from our subsidiaries to pay cash dividends.
Many of the Companys subsidiaries are subject to Services provided to other related parties insurance regulations that restrict the amount of dividends that 1 they can pay to us.
2013 2012 2011 Income Receivable Income Receivable Income Historically, the Company has declared an interim and a final earned at year earned at year earned dividend for each year with the final dividend being paid in the in year end in year end in year m m m m m year following the year to which it relates.
Subject to the Associates 3 11 9 restrictions set out above, the payment of interim dividends on Joint ventures 51 56 23 54 23 ordinary shares is made at the discretion of our Board, whilst Employee pension schemes 12 9 12 6 13 payment of any final dividend requires the approval of the 66 76 35 69 36 Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
Preference 1 Comprises the impact of the adoption of IFRS 10 on the prior year comparative and the resulting consolidation and deconsolidation of entities based on the revised definition and criteria of control outlined in accounting shares are irredeemable and dividends on preference shares are Policy D. See IFRS Financial statements note 1 for further details.
made at the discretion of our Board.
The Company pays cash dividends in pounds sterling, In addition to the amounts disclosed for associates and joint although the articles of association permit payment of dividends ventures above, at 31 December 2013 amounts payable at yearon ordinary shares in other currencies and in forms other than end were nil 2012: nil, and expenses incurred during the cash, such as ordinary shares.
If dividends on ordinary shares period were 3 million 2012: 5 million.
held by the American Depositary Shares ADS depositary are Transactions with joint ventures in the UK relate to the paid in pounds sterling, the ADS depositary will convert the property management undertakings, the principal ones of which pounds sterling that it receives on behalf of the ADS holders are listed in note 19 a iii of the IFRS Financial statements.
Our into US dollars according to the prevailing market rate on the interest in these joint ventures comprises a mix of equity and date that the ADS depositary actually receives the dividends.
loans, together with the provision of administration services and For the 2007 final dividend and previous final and interim financial management to many of them.
Our UK life insurance dividends, shareholders on record were provided with the companies earn interest on loans advanced to these entities, opportunity to elect to receive dividends in the form of newly movements in which may be found in note 19 a i of the IFRS issued ordinary shares through the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme.
For the 2008 interim dividend, the Aviva Scrip Dividend Scheme Our fund management companies also charge fees to these was replaced by a dividend reinvestment plan DRIP.
For those joint ventures for administration services and for arranging shareholders participating in the DRIP, the Company paid a cash external finance.
