264 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Information on the Company Automation we aim to reduce manual interventions in History and development of Aviva processes, reducing overheads and improving efficiency to General benefit our customers.
Aviva, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales, provides customers with long-term Our business insurance and savings, general and health insurance, and fund Overview management products and services.
During the year, the Groups operating segments were changed Our purpose is to free people from fear of uncertainty, to align them with the revised management reporting structure.
allowing them to get on with their lives.
The operating segments are: UK & Ireland: France: Poland: Italy, Spain and Other: Canada: Asia: and Aviva Investors.
In October Our history the Group completed the sale of its United States life, savings The Group was formed by the merger of CGU plc and Norwich and related internal fund management business, which is Union plc on 30 May 2000.
CGU plc was renamed CGNU plc on classified as a discontinued operation for the purposes of completion of the merger, and subsequently renamed Aviva plc reporting financial performance.
CGU plc and Norwich Union plc were both Due to the size of the UK & Ireland segment, it has been major UK-based insurers operating in the long-term insurance split into separate Life and General Insurance segments, which business and general insurance markets.
Both companies had undertake long-term insurance and savings business and long corporate histories.
general insurance and health business, respectively.
Aviva CGU plc was formed in 1998 from the merger of Investors, our fund management business, operates across most Commercial Union plc and General Accident plc.
General markets providing fund management services to third-party Accident plc was incorporated in 1865.
Commercial Union was investors and to our long-term insurance businesses and general incorporated in 1861 and in 1905 acquired Hand in Hand, insurance operations.
Our business operates across three main market sectors Norwich Union plc was founded as a mutual society in 1797, life insurance and savings: general and health insurance: and and had expanded as a global business by the 20th century.
In 1997 it demutualised and became an English public limited company.
Life insurance and savings business During 2013, the Group has undertaken and announced a Long-term insurance and savings business from continuing number of disposals.
Further details of these can be found in operations accounted for approximately 74% of our total the sections IFRS Financial statements note 4 Subsidiaries business based on worldwide total sales from continuing and IFRS Financial statements note 19 Interests in, and loans operations for the year ended 31 December 2013.
We reported to, joint ventures.
total long-term insurance and savings new business sales from continuing operations of 20.5 billion and investment sales of Business overview 4.9 billion for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Our focus is Our aims and strategy to remain financially strong so that we can pay claims and Our long-term strategic framework is based on four theses deliver on the promises we have made to our customers, investment, distribution, customer and people.
Investment thesis Our aim is to be a diversified insurer with sustainable and Market position progressive cash flows underpinned by good potential for In the UK we have a market share of 8% based on annual 2 growth.
The thesis sets out why investors should choose us, premium equivalent APE according to the Association of enabling investors to make an informed decision about British Insurers ABI data as at 30 September 2013.
have life insurance businesses in Ireland, France, Italy, Spain, Distribution thesis Poland, Turkey and Asia.
Further details of our position in each Our aim is to increase the share of business generated in our market are set out in the market sections below.
own channels, introduce new technology for distributors Brands and products and customers, and maintain a diversified distribution mix in We have operated under the Aviva brand globally since 2010. each market, to ensure that we provide a range of channels Our long-term insurance and savings businesses offer a through which our customers want to purchase products broad range of life insurance and savings products.
products are split into the following categories: Customer thesis Pensions is a means of providing income in retirement for Our aim is to meet our customers needs better than our an individual and possibly his or her dependants.
Our competitors, so that we become the insurer of choice in our pension products include personal and group pensions, chosen markets.
stakeholder pensions and income drawdown.
People thesis Annuities is a type of policy that pays out regular amounts Our aim is to support our people to achieve their potential, of benefit, either immediately and for the remainder of a so they can best serve our customers.
persons lifetime, or deferred to commence from a future date.
Immediate annuities may be purchased for an We will allocate resource to three areas of focus: individual and his or her dependants or on a bulk purchase Digital our aim is to increase our share of the direct basis for groups of people.
Deferred annuities are asset digital channel and develop more effective use of data and accumulation contracts, which may be used to provide new technology.
benefits in retirement, and may be guaranteed, unit-linked or index-linked.
Predictive analytics we will focus on enhancing our Protection is an insurance contract that protects the analytics capabilities, increasing the use of internal and policyholder or his or her dependants against financial loss external data to drive improved performance across the on death or ill-health.
Our product ranges include term business, including underwriting, pricing and claims.
2 APE is a recognised sales measure in the UK and is the total of new regular premiums plus 10% of single premiums.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 265 Aviva plc Information on the Company continued Annual report and accounts 2013 assurance, mortgage life insurance, flexible whole life and commission if agreed target levels of sales are met.
agreements have a profit sharing element based on a Bonds and savings are accumulation products with single predetermined percentage.
In some cases, if the agreed or regular premiums and unit-linked or guaranteed targets are not met, certain terms of the contract can be investment returns.
Our product ranges include single renegotiated.
Under the joint venture agreements, the cost premium investment bonds, regular premium savings plans, of running the venture are often split between the partners.
mortgage endowment products and funding agreements.
Investment sales comprise retail sales of mutual fund type Further details of the distribution channels specific to each products such as unit trusts, individual savings accounts market are included in the following market analysis.
ISAs and open ended investment companies OEICs.
Fund management Other includes equity release.
Aviva Investors, our fund management business, provides fund Some of our insurance and investment contracts contain a management services to Avivas long-term insurance and discretionary participation feature, which is a contractual right savings and general insurance operations as well as to thirdto receive additional benefits as a supplement to guaranteed party investors.
The main fund management operations are in benefits.
These are referred to as participating contracts.
the UK, North America, Europe and Asia Pacific.
All sales of General insurance and health insurance retail fund management products are included in our long-term General insurance and health insurance accounted for 26% insurance and savings business sales.
of our total worldwide sales for the year ended 31 December In October 2013 we completed the sale of the internal asset 2013.
In the year ended 31 December 2013, we reported management operations of Aviva Investors North America, as general and health insurance net written premiums of part of the sale of our United States life business.
Market position th Market position Aviva Investors was ranked 40 globally by assets under We are a leading general insurer in the United Kingdom and management, according to the Towers Watson World 500 Canada and also have general insurance operations in France, largest asset managers study 2012 ranking of asset managers by Italy, Ireland, Poland and Turkey.
We sell health products in the assets under management.
Total worldwide funds managed by UK, Ireland, France, Singapore and Indonesia.
In the year ended Aviva Investors at 31 December 2013 was 241 billion.
The 31 December 2013, 50% of our total general insurance and substantial majority of this relates to Avivas insurance and health new business from continuing operations was written in savings operations.
Brands and products Brands and products Aviva Investors operates under a single brand across our Our general insurance business operates under the Aviva brand markets.
Our business invests in most significant asset classes on globally and concentrates on the following products: behalf of institutional, pension fund and retail clients.
In the US, Personal lines motor, household, travel and creditor: Aviva Investors also own an asset management company called Commercial lines fleet, liability and commercial property River Road Asset Management LLC.
insurance: Health insurance private health insurance, income UK & Ireland life protection and personal accident insurance, as well as a Business overview and strategy range of corporate healthcare products: and The UK and Irish businesses are managed under a single Corporate and specialty risks products for large clients or management structure and work is progressing to leverage the where the risk is specialised.
scale and expertise that we believe exists in the UK to benefit the Irish business.
Distribution The UK business is a leading long-term insurance and Customers can buy our products through a range of distribution savings provider with an overall market share of 8%, based on channels, including: 3 annual premium equivalent APE data as at 30 September Direct In many of our markets, customers can buy our 2013.
The Irish business is a large life and pension provider products over the telephone or via the internet.
of distribution is most commonly available for simple, low Our strategy in the UK is to continue to improve cash cost products which do not require advice.
generation and deliver profitable growth.
We will exploit what Direct sales force In some of our European and Asian we believe is our market leading expertise in risk products to markets we operate direct sales forces that only sell Avivas build leading positions in annuities, equity release, life products and the sales forces receive commission on the protection and private medical insurance.
In addition, we are products they sell.
managing our savings back book for value with selective new Intermediaries We offer a range of long-term insurance, savings business sales where financial returns achieve a return in savings, retirement, general insurance and health insurance excess of Group targets, overall and at a product level.
products which can be bought through an intermediary, Our Irish long-term business is now focused primarily on such as an independent financial adviser or an insurance distribution through intermediaries, following the disposal of its broker.
Intermediaries receive a commission on sales of bancassurance joint venture, Ark Life Assurance Company Avivas products.
Limited, to Allied Irish Bank AIB on 8 March 2013.
Corporate partnerships, bancassurance and joint ventures Aviva is a corporate partner for many organisations, Market and competition including banks and other financial institutions, who wish to The UK industry has entered a period of significant regulatory offer their customers insurance products.
We have various change with the Retail Distribution Review RDR and Autodistribution agreements with bancassurance partners and Enrolment transforming the way that long-term savings joint ventures across the markets in which we operate.
In products are bought and sold.
The UK long-term savings market return for offering our products to their customers, the bank is highly competitive and we consider our main competitors to or joint venture partners receive a commission as a percentage of sales and in some cases achieve extra 3 ABI Stats Q3 2013.
266 Aviva plc Information on the Company continued Annual report and accounts 2013 be Standard Life, Prudential, Legal & General, Lloyds Banking Market The UK is the fourth largest non-life insurance market in the Group, Friends Life, Zurich, Canada Life and Just Retirement.
7 4 In Ireland, the economic environment remains challenging world.
In 2012, the top four companies had a 32% share of the general insurance market.
although we believe the life insurance market has returned to growth in 2013.
The life insurance market in Ireland is relatively The UK and Ireland general insurance markets are cyclical in nature and remain very competitive, particularly in personal concentrated and there has been further consolidation in the sector during 2013.
We consider our main competitors to be lines, where the market is highly commoditised.
Following significant premium rate increases in recent years Bank of Ireland Life, Irish Life, Canada Life now merged with Irish Life and Friends First.
in response to rising claims costs and frequencies, the UK personal motor market has continued to see rate reductions in Products 2013 reflecting intense competition and regulatory change.
In the UK, we provide a comprehensive product range focused Challenging economic conditions also apply to other UK classes on both the consumer and corporate market.
The pensions and of business, although there are some signs of rates hardening in `at retirement products we offer include personal pensions, the commercial market.
In Ireland, the market remains equity release, annuities, income drawdown and with-profits challenging, reflecting the economic downturn, increased 5 products.
Our annuity offerings include immediate life, competition and market contraction of 4.3% in 2012. enhanced, fixed-term annuities and with-profits pension In the UK our main competitors are Direct Line Group, annuities.
We provide a number of traditional life insurance RSA, The Admiral Group, AXA, Zurich, LV, Allianz and Ageas.
products, including level-term, decreasing-term with or without In Ireland, our competitors include RSA, AXA, Zurich, FBD critical illness, guaranteed whole life insurance, and guaranteed and Liberty.
Our savings and investment products include ISAs, investment bonds, funds, base rate trackers, Products investments with guarantees and with-profits products.
We provide a wide range of general insurance products both in In Ireland, our long-term insurance and savings business the UK and Ireland.
In the UK we have a business mix of offers a wide range of protection, bonds, savings, pension and approximately 60% personal lines and 40% commercial lines.
Our protection products include life insurance, Our UK personal products include motor, home and travel mortgage protection, specified illness and guaranteed and insurance.
Our UK commercial products include motor, property whole life cover products.
The pension range covers retirement and liability insurance for small and medium size enterprises and investment products including government personal SMEs and the larger UK Corporate and Speciality Risks market.
retirement savings accounts PRSA schemes.
In Ireland our products include property, motor, travel, farm and business insurance and our health insurance business Distribution provides products for both the personal and company sector.
We have a multi-distribution strategy, which means we sell our products through intermediaries, corporate partners, in the Distribution workplace, and directly to customers.
We are a leading provider We have a multi-distribution strategy.
Our personal products 3 in the UK intermediary market with 10% share.
are sold directly to customers over the phone and through our In the UK, we have exclusive distribution deals for the sale of websites www.
ie, protection products with Tesco, Santander, Barclays, Royal Bank www.
com, of Scotland and the Post Office.
We remain committed to via brokers and through corporate partnerships.
Our building on our existing relationships and distribution Quotemehappy and General Accident insurance products are partnerships as well as to growing our workplace and direct also available through price comparison websites.
commercial insurance, we focus on broker distribution and believe that independent brokers remain the best source of UK & Ireland general insurance advice for business customers.
Business overview and strategy The UK and Irish businesses are managed under a single France management structure and work is progressing to leverage the Business overview and strategy 8 scale and expertise that we believe exists in the UK to benefit France is the third largest insurance market in Europe.
France has a significant presence in the French Life insurance We are a leading general insurer in both the UK and Ireland market in which it operates through two main companies: Aviva 4 5 with market shares of 10.5% and 15.3% respectively.
We Vie and Antarius JV structure with Crdit Du Nord.
Aviva employ around 9,000 people and operate from a number of France is ranked tenth in general insurance as measured by locations throughout the UK and Ireland, including Norwich, gross written premiums, according to LArgus fide lAssurance, as Perth, Glasgow, London, Dublin and Galway.
Aviva Frances strategy is to deliver We focus on personal and commercial insurance.
In the UK sustainable dividends to Group by increasing profitability in our 6 we hold top three positions in all our major classes of business.
life business and targeted growth in profitable general insurance We believe our key strengths include underwriting and pricing segments.
sophistication, claims and cost management and excellent Market customer service.
Our aim is to deliver cash and profitable The life insurance market is driven by individual savings and growth by focussing on the fundamentals of the insurance dominated by bancassurance, which has accounted for around business to maximise underwriting returns and we have a 60% of the life insurance market over the past decade portfolio strategy to deliver greater stability of earnings.
We believe that customer confidence in financial markets has been affected but that over a longer period, multi-funds policies and unit-linked funds are the best insurance vehicles for performance.
We believe the long-term insurance and savings market in France has longer-term growth 4 Datamonitor analysis of market share based on 2012 GWP.
6 2012 FSA returns based on GWP data covers personal motor, homeowner, commercial motor and 7 Swiss Re Sigma Study World insurance 2012. commercial property.
8 Fdration Franaise des Socitsd'Assurance FFSA.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 267 Aviva plc Information on the Company continued Annual report and accounts 2013 potential due to the ageing population and the growing need Products Our life business in Poland provides a broad range of unitfor private pensions.
The general insurance market in France is mature and highly linked, annuities, bonds and savings products and health insurance.
For institutions we offer group life insurance and competitive.
For several years, price competition was high as insurers sought market share, particularly in the personal lines employee pension programmes, which are both unit-linked products.
We offer a standard product as part of our privately market.
We believe that during the last couple of years, the market has entered a phase of price increases that currently managed Pillar II pensions business.
We offer general insurance products to both commercial entities and to individuals.
For makes up the majority of its marginal growth.
institutions we offer selected commercial lines risks.
For Products individuals we offer home, accident and travel insurance, which Aviva France provides a wide range of insurance solutions: are primarily sold by tied agents, as well as motor insurance, life and long-term savings, general insurance and asset which is sold primarily through our direct operation.
management through Aviva Investors France.
The products sold through our life channel are long-term savings, pensions and Distribution The direct sales force and bancassurance are the main regular premium products, with a focus on the unit-linked market and a broad range of protection products, primarily distribution channels for most of the Polish group and is made up of over 2,000 tied insurance agents.
Our biggest relationship for individuals.
We have a longstanding relationship with the Association is with Bank Zachodni WBK a subsidiary of Banco Santander that sells both life and general insurance products through the Franaise dEpargne et fide Retraite AFER which is the largest retirement savings association in France with 714,000 members banks network of over 946 branches.
We also co-operate with independent insurance agencies and brokers.
Our mutual funds as at 31 December 2013, to manufacture and distribute the AFER savings product.
are also sold in brokerage houses and our individual products are supported by call centre and website sales.
In the general insurance market our product range includes household, motor, health and legal protection products and also Italy, Spain and Other a range of insurance products for small to medium sized entities, farms, craftsmen and tradesmen, and specific products Italy for building firms and motor fleets.
Business overview and strategy Aviva Italy is the countrys eighth largest life insurer, with a Distribution 9 market share of 3.33% based on 2012 premiums excluding Aviva France has developed a multi-distribution model Eurovita and is the 13th largest general insurance company combining retail, direct and bancassurance networks through with a market share of 1.22%.
We have approximately 2.5 owned distribution channels, independent networks and million customers across both the Life and General Insurance partnerships.
Our retail network sell through 900 tied agents, a businesses.
direct sales force made up of more than 700 Union Financire During 2013 Aviva Italy continued with its transformation fide France UFF consultants and 260 direct advisors transferred plan, as set out in 2012, in order to: to UFF in January 2014 Aviva France also holds a majority stake Transform the operating model: in UFF, and through brokers in the life, health and construction Improve the product pricing and mix: and markets.
Direct distribution is managed through the Eurofil Rationalise the group structure and capital employed brand for personal general insurance, the Aviva Direct brand for protection and Epargne Actuelle for the AFER product.
We A review of the business has resulted in the rationalisation of operate in the bancassurance market through our partnership our business partnerships, with a number of loss making with Crdit du Nord, a subsidiary of Socit Gnrale, partnerships closed.
In November 2013, Aviva announced a selling life, savings and protection products.
This partnership conditional agreement to sell its entire 39% stake in Eurovita gives Aviva access to over 1.9 million customers, as at Assicurazioni S. p. A Eurovita to JC Flowers.
The sale is subject December 2012. to approval by IVASS, the Italian insurance regulator.
Poland Market The Italian life market is dominated by the top 10 providers Business overview and strategy which represented around 84% of the total market share in At 30 September 2013, our Polish life operation is the fourth 9 2012.
The life insurance industry in Italy reported a decline largest life insurer in Poland, with a market share of 7% based in volumes as of 31 December 2012, with gross written on gross written premium, according to the Polish Financial premiums down by 4.1% compared to the same period in Supervision Authority KNF.
Our general insurance business is 2011.
The general insurance segment decreased by 1.5% in the eighth largest with a market share of 2.0% on the same 9 the same period.
Our focus in Poland is to grow the value of new business.
Market Products Our long-term insurance and savings business offers a wide The Polish market for protection products has seen significant range of products covering protection, bonds and savings growth since 1999, although penetration rates remain relatively and pensions.
low according to KNF statistics.
We expect the insurance market In 2013 we focussed on less capital intensive products, such in Poland to continue to grow as its economy matures.
as our zero minimum guarantee rate products.
We have reviewed In December 2013, the Polish parliament passed a new our unit linked product range, and further developed what we Pension Act following the government review of the Pillar II Pensions System.
The Act will give the state-run pension believe is our market leading protection offering.
Our general insurance business in Italy mainly provides motor system a prominent role in managing the countrys pension funds and will have important implications for the private and home insurance products to individuals, as well as commercial risk insurance to small businesses.
In 2013 we have pension providers.
further developed our partnership with Banco Popolare for the distribution of motor insurance through their branches.
9 Associazione Nazionale fra le Imprese Assicuratrici ANIA.
268 Aviva plc Information on the Company continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Distribution Aviva Vida y Pensiones distributes our products through Our products are distributed through bancassurance professional intermediaries financial advisers, agents and partnerships with UniCredit Group, Banco Popolare Group and brokers, supported by a branch office network and call centres, Unione di Banche Italiane UBI.
These partnerships give us and through Pelayos network.
access to more than 3,600 branches.
In addition, we also have Other approximately 4,000 sales advisers, and 600 insurance multiThe Italy, Spain and Other segment also includes our businesses mandate agents and brokers as of 30 June 2013. in Turkey where we sell life and savings products including unit Spain linked pensions through our life joint venture.
Our Turkish Business overview and strategy general insurance operation sells personal motor, household, Aviva Spain is the countrys sixth largest long-term insurer by commercial property, small and medium size enterprises, gross written premiums with a market share of 4% in the third personal accident, marine and travel insurance, and is classified 10 quarter of 2013.
Aviva Spain sells protection, long-term as held for sale.
savings and pensions, health and accident insurance through a bancassurance network based on joint ventures with five banks.
Canada We also sell through Aviva Vida y Pensiones, the wholly-owned Business overview and strategy 12 Aviva branded long-term insurance company and through our Aviva Canada is the countrys second largest general insurer.
Spanish mutual insurance company Pelayo.
Through its distribution partners it provides a range of personal In April 2013, Aviva completed the transfer of its entire and commercial lines insurance products to nearly three million 11 12 holding in Aseval to Bankia S. A. policyholders.
It has an 8% market share and a top five 12 Our strategy is to maintain the franchise value in Spain position in all major provinces.
Aviva Canada employs with no further investment until market conditions improve, approximately 3,600 people and operates from a head office in and to develop further our retail operations with new Toronto, with other offices located throughout Canada.
The ongoing focus in on less capital We believe that we are well placed for continued growth intensive products.
and that our success is underpinned by our two strategic priorities of building strong broker relationships and maintaining Market sophisticated pricing and underwriting.
We believe the The Spanish market is significantly affected by the current transformation of our personal lines business over the last few economic climate and the financial sector continues to be under years has ensured the business is highly competitive.
We expect pressure as a result of the ongoing restructuring process and that continued refinement to our models will allow us to mergers taking place.
Any opportunities arising from these will leverage this position to positively react to market opportunities.
be considered by Aviva on their merits.
In relation to distribution We will continue to address increasing customer demand for agreements with bancassurance partners, Aviva is protected choice, simplicity and self-service by working with our broker financially within our contracts with Spains savings banks the partners on processes and technology solutions in order to help cajas from any detrimental effect arising from these mergers.
them compete with other channels.
The top positions in the long-term life insurance market are dominated by bank-owned or bank-insurer joint ventures, with Market 13 the overall bancassurance channel accounting for more than Canada is the eighth largest non-life market in the world and 10 72% of gross written premiums at the end of 2012 in the is established and stable.
The four largest provinces generate Spanish life insurance market.
around 88% of total premiums with Ontario, the largest, 12 Customers in Spain are accustomed to receiving advice representing 47% of total Canadian premiums.
through banking channels, and we continue to use our The Canadian general insurance industry is highly relationship with our partners to capitalise on this whilst fragmented with many small players and no dominant developing our retail agents and broker distribution network.
Steady consolidation has resulted in the top five companies representing 40% of the market and the top Products two companies, Intact Financial and Aviva, controlling close to We offer a wide range of bonds, savings, and protection 12 23% of the market.
The rest of the industry includes several products.
Investment products include both unit linked and national carriers as well as smaller, provincially based or niche traditional plans, where profit sharing is regularly used to companies.
Our traditional plans include savings Whilst direct and affinity channels are gradually increasing in schemes and income products.
Pension savings products have market share, the traditional broker channel accounts for 65% valuable tax advantages.
We offer a flexible range of individual 14 of distribution.
In addition to the growth of direct and affinity and group pension plans with alternative investment choices.
channels, insurance carriers are increasingly supporting and We also offer protection products: covering both mortgages controlling distribution through investment in brokers.
and credit loans typically providing cover for the family.
Products Distribution The general insurance products that we provide through our Through bancassurance partnerships we have established Canadian companies are: subsidiaries to distribute our products with each of the banks Personal, home and motor insurance: as set out below: Small and medium-size enterprise commercial insurance, Unicorp Vida in conjunction with Unicaja since 2001 including motor, property, liability, boiler and machinery, CxG in conjunction with Caixa Galicia since 2001 and surety: and Caja Espaa Vida in conjunction with Caja Espaa Niche personal insurance products including holiday and since 2001 park model trailers, hobby farms, boats as well as antique, Caja Granada Vida in conjunction with Caja Granada classic and custom cars.
since 2002 Cajamurcia Vida in conjunction with Cajamurcia since 2007 12 MSA Research Inc. 2012 online database.
10 Investigacin Co-operativa entre Entidades Asegurados y Fordos fide Pensionies ICEA.
13 Swiss Re Sigma Study World insurance 2012.
11 Aseval: Aseguradora Valenciana, Sociedad Annima fide Seguros y Reaseguros.
14 Axco Insurance Report for Canada.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 269 Aviva plc Information on the Company continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Distribution premium life insurance, other savings and pensions products We operate in Canada through a distribution network focused and a range of accident and health insurance products.
on approximately 1,600 independent group and retail brokers Distribution who distribute our core personal and commercial line products.
Across Asia, we operate a multi-distribution strategy.
In In addition, we work closely with both independent and Singapore, we have a core bancassurance relationship with DBS wholly owned specialty brokers to distribute specialty personal Bank and also own a majority interest in PIAS, a leading line products.
financial advisory firm in Singapore.
In China, our products are sold mainly through telemarketing, bancassurance and agents.
Asia In Indonesia, group business is sold through our direct sales Business overview and strategy force.
In Vietnam, bancassurance is the main distribution In Asia we are focused on growth in China and South East Asia.
We are also investing in other channels such as direct Increasing the value of our new business remains our first marketing and online to differentiate ourselves from priority in Asia.
We are achieving this through scale benefits and competitors.
by focusing our product mix on higher margin products.
In 15 Singapore, our life business is a leading insurer in the market, Aviva Investors providing employee benefit and individual life insurance through Business overview and strategy diversified distribution channels.
We also have general insurance Aviva Investors offers a range of fund management services, operations in Singapore and are considered the market leader in 16 operating in the UK, North America, Europe, and Asia Pacific online personal motor insurance.
and had 241 billion in assets under management as at In China, through our 50% joint venture with COFCO 31 December 2013.
Group, we are ranked number 7 among 25 foreign life insurers 17 Our largest clients are the long-term insurance, savings, and in terms of APE as of Q3 2013.
We have a presence in 12 general insurance businesses of Aviva, to whom we provide provinces and over 50 branches.
We have recently changed our bespoke asset management services across a broad spectrum of strategy to focus on proprietary channels and higher margin asset classes.
We provide external clients with bespoke segregated In India, with a distribution network of 121 branches, we solutions or offer access to a variety of fund ranges.
Our operate in partnership with the Dabur Group through a 26% principal target clients for the larger segregated solutions tend interest in Aviva Life Insurance Company India Ltd. As at 30 to be large pension funds and financial institutions such as September 2013, we ranked eleventh among the private life insurance companies and banks.
insurance companies in India based on APE according to the 18 Our strategy is to grow our share of higher-margin, external Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority IRDA.
business, offering investment propositions which deliver In Indonesia, we are one of the top 5 insurers in the 19 predictable returns with low volatility.
Our key objectives are to employee benefit sector.
In January 2014, we announced significantly improve profitability by focusing on capabilities plans, subject to regulatory approval, to form an equal joint and propositions that build on our heritage in managing longventure partnership with Astra International, Indonesias largest term savings.
publicly listed company, to sell and distribute life insurance products in Indonesia.
Products and distribution In Vietnam, through our 50% joint venture with Vietin Bank, Our products cover a broad range of asset classes.
In Europe, we aim to grow our bancassurance business and diversify our we have a range of open-ended collective investment schemes distribution network over the next few years.
which are domiciled in France, Luxembourg and Poland.
These In Hong Kong, our wholly owned subsidiary operates funds have different share classes depending on the size and through the Bancassurance, IFA and Agency channels, with a type of investor.
Our traditional distribution model for these focus on Bancassurance through its preferred relationship funds focuses on wholesale distributors, asset allocators and with DBS.
small to mid-size institutional investors.
Our businesses in Taiwan and Korea are held for sale.
In the UK, we largely sell segregated mandates and specialist funds to pension schemes, local authorities and insurance Market companies.
We also supply products to the retail and wholesale The Asian markets are strategically important to Aviva, owing to markets, principally through UK domiciled equity, bond and real large populations in fast-growing economies, coupled with estate funds.
These are promoted to investors via IFAs, fund relatively low insurance penetration rates and social coverage.
platforms, fund supermarkets and discretionary asset managers.
Insurance penetration as measured as insurance premium as a In addition, we have a range of pooled pension funds which are proportion of GDP in most Asian countries is typically less than aimed at the smaller pension fund market.
These funds are 5%, and in China, Indonesia and Vietnam is 1.7%, 1.2% and 20 normally defined benefit schemes and tend to be advised by 0.6% respectively.
The outlook for Asian economic growth in 2014 ex-Japan 21 In the US we also have an asset management company is projected to be 6.4%, with the potential for a 7% growth 22 called River Road Asset Management LLC, based in Louisville, rate per annum over the next decade.
Kentucky, which provides a value investing approach to Products equity portfolios.
Our Asian businesses offer a wide range of protection, savings We also have a range of specialist property funds.
These and pension products, including universal life, participating and funds are targeted at specialist real estate buyers and large non-participating endowments, unit-linked single and regular institutions mostly pension funds and local authorities, and provide real estate solutions to a wide range of risk appetites, ranging from secure income generating funds to leveraged growth funds.
16 The General Insurance Association of Singapore We have six money market funds, domiciled in Ireland and 17 APE data released by National Insurance Industry Communication Club.
France, addressing the sterling and euro money market 18 http: www.
in ADMINCMS cms frmGeneral List.
These funds are sold by a specialist sales team and 20 Swiss Re Sigma :Study World Insurance in 2012 target corporate treasury functions.
com en economy region-outlook Asia.
22 Asian Insurance Outlook by Swiss Re Economic Research & Consulting, insurance regulators and association on March, 2013.
270 Aviva plc Information on the Company continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Discontinued operations United States Business overview In October 2013, the Group completed the sale of its United States life operations US Life, consisting of the United States life and annuities business Aviva USA and the related asset management operations of Aviva Investors North America, to Athene Holding Ltd.
The results of US Life for all periods are presented as a discontinued operation.
See IFRS Financial statements note 4 Subsidiaries.
Market Aviva USA was a provider of fixed indexed life insurance and fixed indexed annuities in the USA.
According to Winks Sales & Market Report, as of 30 September 2013, Aviva USA was ranked ninth in the market for the sale of fixed indexed life products with a 4% market share, and fifth for the sale of fixed indexed annuities with a 6% market share.
Products Aviva USA offered both protection and savings products, with traditional fixed as well as indexed accumulation options that pay interest based on the movement of a market index.
Aviva USA also offered a range of optional extras or riders added to policies to meet customised individual needs.
In the savings market, Aviva USAs fixed annuity portfolio offered tax-advantaged savings opportunities and protection against the risk of outliving ones assets.
Some of these products included a guaranteed lifetime withdrawal benefit that allows customers to make guaranteed minimum withdrawals from their annuity for the entirety of their lives.
Distribution Aviva USA used a multi-channel distribution strategy, which included career marketing organisations, independent marketing organisations, brokerage general agents and personal producing agents.
Its network covered all 50 states with agents largely contracted through key distribution partners.
Delta Lloyd Delta Lloyd is a financial services provider in the Netherlands and Belgium.
The Group ceased to control Delta Lloyd on 6 May 2011 and its results for 2011 up to that date are presented as discontinued operations.
For the period from 7 May 2011 to 5 July 2012, the Group had an associate interest in Delta Lloyd.
From 6 July 2012, following a further selldown, the Groups stake was treated as a financial investment.
The Groups share of Delta Lloyds results as an associate and its interest in Delta Lloyd as a financial investment are both included in the comparative periods presented in these financial statements in other group activities within continuing operations.
In January 2013, the Group sold its remaining stake in Delta Lloyd.
