Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 293 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Capital commitments Third Life and Non-Life Directives Contractual commitments for acquisitions or capital These directives implemented the home country control expenditures of investment property, property and equipment principle for life and non-life insurance business in the midand intangible assets, which have not been recognised in our 1990s and placed the responsibility for such issues as solvency, consolidated financial statements, are as follows: actuarial reserves, investment of assets, and certain governance issues on the home country regulator.
Most companies licensed 2013 2012 m m to conduct insurance business in one member state may rely on their home country regulation to passport into all other Investment property 3 6 Property and equipment 24 36 member states to conduct business without having to be Total 27 42 separately licensed in each.
The general exception is selling activity which continues to be regulated by the state in which Contractual obligations for future repairs and maintenance on the sale takes place.
investment properties are nil 2012: nil.
We have capital Insurance Groups Directive IGD commitments to joint ventures of 140 million 2012: 41 The IGD requires member states to introduce the following million.
These commitments are expected to be funded measures to strengthen supervision of insurance companies through operational cash flow without recourse to core which are part of a group: structural borrowings.
An adjustment margin to the solvency calculation in relation to participating interests in other insurance undertakings in Regulation order to eliminate double-gearing the use of the same Compliance regulatory capital in more than one entity of a group.
In both our insurance and fund management businesses, An additional parent undertaking solvency margin matters may arise as a result of industry-wide issues, inspection calculation analogous to the adjusted margin test referred to visits or other regulatory activity, requiring discussion and above, to be applied at the level of the parent undertaking.
The Group needs to ensure The introduction of new solo supervision requirements, that procedures are in place to address any regulatory concerns, including rules as to internal control within the insurance and that such procedures are properly planned, managed and undertaking regarding the production of information resourced.
Corrective action is undertaken, when necessary, relevant to supplementary supervision, the exchange of with progress reported to relevant regulatory bodies in a information within the group and the supervision of intratimely manner.
Further provisions aimed at ensuring co-operation between Overview of regulation as it affects our business competent regulatory authorities of member states.
Our principal insurance and fund management operations are in the UK, Europe, North America and the Asia Pacific region.
Since 31 December 2006, the group capital resources We are therefore subject to financial services regulation and requirement the parent undertaking solvency calculation local regulatory supervision in all these areas, as individually mentioned above has been a hard test i. e. it constitutes covered below.
a requirement to maintain the group capital resources, rather As the Groups parent company is based in the UK, both EU than simply to make the calculation for UK-based companies legislation and UK regulatory rules can impact Avivas business operating under PRA rules.
Regulators supervising the Group coordinate on a cross-border basis through a college.
Reinsurance Directive Adopted on 16 November 2005, this directive requires that all The European Union reinsurance undertakings be authorised in their home member In addition to its UK businesses, Aviva is active in other EU state.
To obtain that authorisation, they need to meet strict member states through wholly owned subsidiary and joint requirements, but are then free to operate anywhere in the EU venture companies.
These companies are subject to the laws through the single market passport process.
and regulations of the EU member state in which they are based, but are also affected by higher level EU legislation, which Distance Marketing Directive will continue to have a significant influence on the legislative Under the Distance Marketing Directive, EU member states are environment in the UK and other EU markets.
required to implement a framework of rules and guidance in The EU operates by promulgating directives that must be order to protect consumers by: implemented into local national legislation within each EU setting minimum standards for information that must be member country.
These directives set minimum standards for provided to consumers before entering into a financial national legislatures to meet, with each legislature able to services contract by distance means: and decide how they should be implemented.
National governments for certain products and services, giving a cooling-off period may not pass laws which fail to meet the minimum standards in which a consumer may cancel a contract without penalty.
set out in a directive, but are generally free to impose legal requirements which go beyond those required.
Directives are Insurance Mediation Directive written at a fairly high level, with more detail being provided at This requires EU member states to establish a framework to: national level through legislation developed in accordance with ensure that insurance and reinsurance intermediaries have the local legal system.
Even greater detail may be imposed been registered on the basis of a minimum set of through the rules and regulations of national regulators and, for professional and financial requirements: financial services businesses these rules can be extensive.
ensure that registered intermediaries will be able to operate The EU may also impose requirements directly on countries in other member states by availing themselves of the through regulation.
EU financial services regulation is based on freedom to provide services or by establishing a branch: and the principle of home country control, which makes the home impose requirements on insurance intermediaries to provide country regulator responsible for monitoring compliance with all specified minimum information to potential customers.
Key directives of particular relevance to the financial services industry, and so to Avivas businesses in the EU include: 294 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID Products PRIPs that will introduce common product disclosure MiFID, which superseded the earlier Investment Services standards, the review of the Insurance Mediation Directive IMD Directive, builds on the home country control principle, and MiFID, and the Directive for Institutions of Occupations extending the range of core investment services and activities Retirement Provisions IORP that sets rules for occupational that may be passported from one member state to another, pension schemes.
clarifying the allocation of responsibilities between home The European Market Infrastructure Regulation EMIR that and host country jurisdictions, and introducing greater introduces central clearing of standard Over the Counter OTC harmonisation governing the organisation and conduct of derivatives came into force in 2013.
This is subject to transitional business of investment firms.
provisions and actions that the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA must complete before central clearing can Solvency II commence later this year.
The Solvency II Level 1 Directive was published in November 2009.
Solvency II represents a fundamental change in European United Kingdom regulation and will result in a more sophisticated economic risk The new regulatory structure based capital approach.
Its objectives are to establish a solvency On 1 April 2013 the Financial Services Authority was replaced system that is better aligned to the true risks of insurers, and by the Prudential Regulation Authority the PRA and the aims to enable supervisors to protect policyholder interests as Financial Conduct Authority the FCA.
The reforms were effectively as possible in accordance with common principles implemented under the Financial Services Act 2012 the FS across the EU.
An amending directive Omnibus II was agreed in Act which made extensive amendments to existing legislation Trilogue between the EU Commission, Council and Parliament including the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 in November 2013 which is scheduled to be voted on by the EU FSMA.
The FS Act also contains some standalone provisions.
This will set the implementation The PRA is a subsidiary of the Bank of England and is date for Solvency II as 1 January 2016.
The next steps in the responsible for the micro-prudential regulation of banks, development of Solvency II will be the completion of level 2 building societies, credit unions, insurers and major investment and 3 Delegated Acts, implementing technical standards and firms.
The PRA has two statutory objectives: supervisory guidance.
to promoted the safety and soundness of regulated firms: and Systemic Risk in the case of insurers, to contribute to securing an In July 2013 the Financial Stability Board FSB designated nine appropriate degree of protection for policyholders.
insurance groups as Global Systemically Important Insurers G-SIIs.
As an international insurer, Aviva is one of the firms The FCA is a company limited by guarantee, accountable to the that has been designated as a G-SII.
Alongside the FSBs UK Treasury, and through the Treasury, to the UK Parliament.
It designation the International Association of Insurance is operationally independent of government and entirely funded Supervisors published policy measures that will apply to by the firms it regulates.
The FCAs strategic objective as set out G-SIIs.
The policy measures include enhanced supervision, in the FS Act is to ensure that markets function well and it is recovery and resolution planning, the preparation of systemic responsible for the conduct regulation of all financial services risk management and liquidity risk management plans.
The firms including those prudentially regulated by the PRA, such as policy measures also include higher loss absorbency insurers.
In addition, the FCA prudentially regulates those requirements HLA.
In the absence of a global capital financial services firms not supervised by the PRA, including framework for insurers, the International Association of most asset managers.
The FCA has three operational objectives: Insurance Supervisors IAIS is developing a Basic Capital securing an appropriate degree of protection for consumers: Requirement BCR to provide a comparable foundation for the protecting and enhancing the integrity of the UK financial application of HLA to G-SIIs.
The development phase of the system: and BCR is planned to conclude during 2014.
The IAIS will then promoting effective competition in the interests of develop its approach to HLA which will be applicable to G-SIIs consumers in the markets for financial services.
Within their respective jurisdictions, the PRA and FCA have Insurance Capital Standard ICS authority to make rules and issue guidance, taking into account The Financial Stability Board FSB has stated that a sound relevant EU directives, impacting individuals and firms capital and supervisory framework for the insurance sector is authorised to conduct regulated activities Authorised Persons essential for supporting financial stability.
In this respect the IAIS and Authorised Firms.
will develop a work plan to develop a comprehensive, group Under the FSMA no person may carry on, or purport to carry wide supervisory and regulatory framework for Internationally on, a regulated activity by way of business in the UK unless he is Active Insurance Groups IAIGs, including a quantitative capital an Authorised Person or an exempt person.
The ICS will be incorporated into the global permission to carry on regulated activities becomes an framework for the supervision of internationally active insurance Authorised Person for the purposes of FSMA.
Regulated groups ComFrame that the IAIS is developing.
The IAIS has activities are prescribed in the FSMA Regulated Activities indicated that it will develop the ICS by 2016 for Order 2001 and include banking, insurance and investment implementation in 2019 along with the rest of ComFrame.
business, stakeholder pension schemes, insurance mediation Future EU developments and certain mortgage mediation and lending activities.
During 2013 the European Commission undertook a review of Authorised Firms must at all times meet specified threshold the European System of Financial Supervision ESFS.
The ESFS conditions, including possession of adequate resources for the includes the three sector specific European Supervisory carrying on of their business, and being fit and proper to Authorities ESAs that have powers to make binding rules and conduct that business, having regard to all the circumstances.
drive supervisory consistency and convergence through a single Authorised Firms must also operate in accordance with the rule book.
It is anticipated that the Commission will publish its FCAs Principles for Business if solo regulated and the PRAs and conclusions of its review during 2014.
FCAs Principles for Business if dual regulated.
The FCA has 11 There are a number of European dossiers that are expected high level principles for conducting financial services business in to progress during 2014, including Packaged Retail Investment the UK, including maintenance of adequate systems and Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 295 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 controls, treating customers fairly, and communicating with control framework on which the regulated subsidiaries place customers in a manner that is clear, fair and not misleading.
The PRA has 6 high level principles including maintenance of The PRA and FCA regulate from a legal entity perspective, adequate systems and controls and financial prudence.
even though Aviva tends to operate by business unit.
However, The PRA and FCA regulatory regimes are based on the both regulators expect that Avivas regulated subsidiaries will principle that firms should have effective systems and controls, operate within an overall framework of Group governance and including robust risk management, which are appropriate to the controls.
PRA and FCA rules expressly provide that any systems size, complexity and diversity of their business.
and controls which operate on a Group basis will be taken into account in determining the adequacy of a regulated subsidiarys UK Regulation of the Aviva Group systems and controls.
The robustness of these Group controls is A number of the Groups UK subsidiaries are dual regulated therefore subject to scrutiny and challenge by both regulators.
directly authorised by both the PRA for prudential regulation PRA and FCA rules regulate the acquisition and increase of and the FCA for conduct regulation whilst others are solo control over Authorised Firms.
Under FSMA, any person regulated regulated solely by the FCA for both prudential and proposing to acquire control of, or increase control over certain conduct regulation.
thresholds of, an Authorised Firm must first obtain the consent Aviva plc, although not directly authorised, does come within of the appropriate regulator.
The Authorised Firm must also the scope of some regulation as the ultimate insurance holding inform the appropriate regulator of any such proposed company in the Group.
The PRA and FCA have new powers acquisition or increase.
In considering whether to grant or under the FS Act in relation to unregulated parent undertakings withhold its approval of the acquisition or increase of control, qualifying parent undertakings that control and exert the appropriate regulator must be satisfied both that the influence over regulated firms.
The new powers include the acquirer is a fit and proper person and that the interests of ability to make directions imposing requirements on parent consumers would not be threatened by this acquisition or undertakings, take enforcement action where such directions are increase of control.
breached and gather information from parent undertakings.
Control over a UK Authorised Firm is acquired if the As Aviva is a UK-based group, the PRA has the responsibility acquirer: of acting as lead regulator i. e. the cross-sector supervisory holds 10% or 20% if the Authorised Firm is an insurance co-ordinator for the Group within the EU.
intermediary or more of the shares, or voting power, in that firm, or a parent undertaking of the firm: or Regulated entities within Aviva plc is able to exercise significant influence over the management DUAL REGULATED SOLO REGULATED of the firm by virtue of the acquirers shares or voting power Aviva Annuity UK Ltd Aviva Equity Release UK Ltd in that company or a parent undertaking of the firm.
Aviva Health UK Ltd Aviva Insurance Services UK Ltd Increases in control require the consent of the appropriate Aviva Insurance Ltd Aviva Investors London Ltd regulator when they reach thresholds of 20%, 30% and 50% Aviva International Insurance Ltd Aviva Investors Global Services Ltd of the shares or voting power of the firm or its parent.
Aviva Investors Pensions Ltd Aviva Investors UK Fund Services Ltd In order to determine whether a person or a group of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd Aviva Investors UK Funds Ltd persons is a controller for the purposes of FSMA, the holdings Gresham Insurance Company Ltd Aviva Life Services UK Ltd shares or voting rights of the person and any other person Aviva Pension Trustees UK Ltd acting in concert, if any, are aggregated.
The Ocean Marine Insurance Aviva Wrap UK Ltd Company Ltd Conduct of business rules Orn Capital LLP The FCAs Conduct of Business COB and Insurance: Conduct of Business ICOB Rules apply to every Authorised Firm carrying Approved persons and controllers on relevant regulated activities, and regulate the day-to-day Both the PRA and FCA place great emphasis on the principle of conduct of business standards to be observed by all Authorised senior management responsibility.
The directors of, and senior Persons in carrying out regulated activities.
managers carrying out controlled function roles as defined in The COB and ICOB Rules are principle based, and the scope the PRA and FCA handbooks in, any of the Groups regulated and range of obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm will entities are individually registered with either the PRA or FCA vary according to the scope of its business and range of the under the Approved Person regime, and can be held directly Authorised Firms clients.
Generally speaking, however, the accountable to the relevant regulator for control failings in obligations imposed on an Authorised Firm by the COB and those entities.
For solo regulated entities, individuals applying ICOB Rules will include the need to classify its clients according for approval in a controlled function make their application to to their level of sophistication, provide them with information the FCA and if successful, are registered with the FCA.
For dual about the Authorised Firm, meet certain standards of product regulated entities, responsibility for applying the approved disclosures including fee and remuneration arrangements, persons regime to controlled functions is split between the PRA ensure that promotional material which it produces is clear, fair and FCA, with the PRA having responsibility for all of the and not misleading, assess suitability when advising on certain Governing Functions.
However, the PRA cannot approve an products, control the range and scope of advice given, manage application without the consent of the FCA.
Each regulator can conflicts of interest, report appropriately to its clients and apply its Statements of Principles and Code of Practice for provide certain protections in relation to client assets.
Approved Persons APER to the conduct expected of approved The PRAs COB rule book is limited to with-profits business and persons, and each can discipline an approved person who has linked long-term insurance business as these classes of business breached an APER statement of principle, regardless of which are regulated by both the PRA and FCA.
For with-profits regulator gave approval.
business the FCA is concerned with ensuring fairness between A number of senior managers at Group are registered as policyholders and shareholders whilst the PRA has ultimate Approved Persons with either the PRA or FCA for the regulated responsibility in respect of decisions which have material subsidiaries, even though they are neither directors nor senior consequences for both affordability and fairness.
For linked managers of these firms.
This recognises that these managers long-term business, the FCA is concerned with ensuring benefits exert significant influence over the regulated subsidiaries, are determined by reference to an approved index, whilst the because they are responsible for key parts of the Groups PRA is concerned with linked assets being capable of being 296 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 realised in time to meet obligations to policyholders and the Intervention and enforcement The PRA and FCA have extensive powers to investigate and matching of linked assets with linked liabilities.
intervene in the affairs of Authorised Firms.
In relation to dual Capital and solvency rules for insurers regulated firms, under the terms of a Memorandum of The PRA rules require that a UK insurer including those within Understanding entered into in April 2013, the PRA and FCA will the Group must hold capital resources equal to at least the consult each other before taking enforcement action.
The PRA Minimum Capital Requirement MCR.
Insurers with with-profits has the right to veto certain FCA regulatory actions in relation to liabilities of more than 500 million which is the case with dual regulated firms, but the FCA is not required to comply if in Avivas with-profits fund must hold capital equal to the higher its opinion it would be incompatible with any EU or other of MCR and the Enhanced Capital Requirement ECR.
The ECR international obligation of the UK.
is intended to provide a more risk responsive and realistic The regulators enforcement powers, which may be exercised measure of a with-profits insurers capital requirements, against both Authorised Firms and Approved Persons, include whereas the MCR is broadly equivalent to the previous required public censure, imposition of unlimited fines and, in serious minimum margin, and satisfies the minimum EU standards.
cases, the variation or revocation of permission to carry on Determination of the ECR involves the comparison of two regulated activities or of an Approved Persons status.
The FCA separate measurements of the Authorised Firms financial may also vary or revoke an Authorised Firms permissions to resources requirements, which the PRA refers to as the twin protect the interests of consumers or potential consumers if the peaks approach.
The two separate peaks are: Authorised Firm has not engaged in regulated activity for 12 the requirement comprised by the mathematical reserves months, or if it is failing to meet the threshold conditions for plus the long term insurance capital requirement the authorisation.
The FCA has further powers to obtain injunctions LTICR, together known as the regulatory peak: and against Authorised Persons and to impose or seek restitution a calculation of the realistic present value of the insurers orders where consumers have suffered loss.
expected future contractual liabilities together with In addition to applying sanctions for market abuse, the FCA projected fair discretionary bonuses to policyholders, plus has the power to prosecute criminal offences arising under a risk capital margin, together known as the realistic peak.
FSMA and insider dealing under Part V of the Criminal Justice Act 1993, and breaches of money laundering regulations.
The All UK insurers must also carry out an Individual Capital FCAs stated policy is to pursue criminal prosecution in all Assessment ICA to calculate the amount of capital needed to appropriate cases.
If the PRA decides that the final ICA amount is insufficient, it may draw up its own Individual Capital The Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS The FSCS is intended to compensate individuals and small Guidance ICG for the firm, which can be imposed as a requirement on the scope of the Authorised Firms permission.
businesses for claims against an Authorised Firm where the Authorised Firm is unable or unlikely to be able to meet those Day-to-day supervision claims generally, when it is insolvent or has gone out of Both the PRA and FCA take a risk-based approach to business.
supervision, with the PRA focusing on those issues and authorised firms posing the greatest risk to the stability of the The FSCS levy is to split into twelve broad classes: UK financial system and policyholders, and the FCA conducting the deposits class: in-depth structured supervision work with those firms with the the life and pensions provision class: potential to cause the greatest risk to its objectives.
the general insurance provision class: Given our size and our share of the UK retail market, a the investment provision class: major issue within our business which causes concern for the the life and pensions intermediation class: regulators may have a significant impact on these objectives.
the home finance intermediation class: Both regulators therefore maintain proactive engagement the investment intermediation class: with us, with day-to-day supervision of Aviva conducted by the general insurance intermediation class: dedicated teams within the PRA and FCA.
In practice, this the deposit acceptors contribution class: means that a wide range of Group and UK business unit senior the insurers life contribution class: managers have regular scheduled meetings with the UK the insurers general contribution class: and regulators, and other meetings and discussions on specific issues the home finance providers and administrators take place as the need occurs.
This adds up to frequent contribution class.
regulatory interaction at business unit and Group level, and the sharing of detailed information about the Group.
The permissions held by each firm determine into which class, Areas of potential risk or weakness where the regulators or classes, it falls.
particularly require Aviva to focus attention are formally set out in a Risk Mitigation Plans RMPs from FCA and key actions Restrictions on business UK regulatory rules restrict an insurance company from carrying from PRA.
All open actions are being progressed in accordance with on any commercial business other than insurance business and activities directly arising from that business.
Therefore, timescales agreed with the PRA and FCA.
Outside of the UK, each Aviva business is regulated by its authorised insurance companies in the Group are bound by this restriction.
own national regulator s. However, overseas operations are also within the remit of the PRA to the extent that they have an interest in the systems and controls by which the Group manages its overseas businesses to mitigate the risk of financial shocks arising overseas flowing through to the UK.
The PRA monitors the strategy and performance of the Groups international businesses through its programme of regular meetings and reviews.
The UK regulators aim to play a leading role in the development of both EU and international regulation.
Strategic report Governance IFRS Financial statements Other information 297 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 Long-term assets and liabilities Reporting requirements Where a UK insurer carries on life insurance business, its longPRA rules require insurance companies to file their audited term business assets and liabilities i. e. those assets and annual accounts, statements of financial position and life liabilities relating to life and health insurance policies must be insurers annual reports from the actuary performing the segregated from the assets and liabilities attributable to non-life actuarial function with the regulator.
There is also a requirement insurance business or to shareholders.
Separate accounting and to report the annual solvency position of the insurance other records must be maintained and a separate fund companys ultimate parent.
established to hold all receipts of long-term business.
The PRA uses the annual return to monitor the solvency i. e. The extent to which long-term fund assets may be used for the ability to meet current and future obligations such as claims purposes other than long-term business is restricted by the PRA payments to policyholders of the insurance company.
Only the established surplus, which is the excess of general insurance business, the return is also used to assess assets over liabilities in the long-term fund as determined by retrospectively the adequacy of the companys claims provisions.
actuarial investigation, may be transferred so as to be available The directors of an insurance company are required to sign a for other purposes.
Restrictions also apply to the payment of certificate, which includes a statement as to whether the dividends by the insurance company, as described below.
PRA company has maintained the required minimum margin of rules also require insurers to maintain sufficient assets in the solvency throughout the year.
The directors must also certify separate long-term insurance fund to cover the actuarially that the company has completed its return to the PRA properly determined value of the insurance liabilities.
in accordance with the PRAs instructions, and that the directors are satisfied that the company has complied in all material Distribution of profits and with-profits business respects with the requirements set out in the PRA rules.
For UK authorised life insurers carrying on with-profits business, such as Aviva Life and Pensions UK Ltd AVLAP, the FCAs UK winding up rules rules require that where a firm decides to make a distribution of The general insolvency laws and regulations applicable to UK surplus from the with-profits fund it must distribute at least the companies are modified in certain respects in relation to UK required percentage as defined in the FCA Handbook of the insurance companies where direct insurance claims will have total amount distributed to policyholders, with the balance of priority over the claims of other unsecured creditors with the the total amount to be distributed being payable to the exception of preferred creditors, including reinsurance shareholders.
creditors, on a winding up by the court or a creditors voluntary In addition, at least once a year the AVLAP Board must winding up of the insurance company.
Furthermore, instead of consider whether a distribution is required to be made from the making a winding-up order when an insurance company has Old with-profits sub-fund Old WPSF inherited estate.
Such a been proved unable to pay its debts, a UK court may reduce the distribution will ordinarily be required if the level of the inherited amount of one or more of the insurance companys contracts estate of the Old WPSF exceeds the Required Distribution on terms and subject to conditions if any which the court Threshold as described in the Reattribution Scheme of Transfer considers fit.
Where an insurance company is in financial effective from 1 October 2009 The Scheme on any such difficulties but not in liquidation, the FSCS may take measures annual investigation from the third such investigation after to secure the transfer of all or part of the business to another 1 October 2009.
An Annual investigation may also be carried insurance company.
out to determine if a Release to shareholders can be made from FSMA provides further protection to policyholders of the RIEESA.
Releases can only be made: insurance companies effecting or carrying out contracts of longif the Reattributed Inherited Estate exceeds the Permitted term insurance.
Unless the court orders otherwise, a liquidator Release Threshold as defined in the Scheme: and or administrator must carry on the insurers business so far the AVLAP Board based on appropriate actuarial advice as it consists of carrying out the insurers contracts of long-term including that of the With-Profits Actuary are of the opinion insurance with a view to it being transferred as a going concern that the Release will not give rise to a significant risk that the to a person who may lawfully carry out those contracts.
In New with-profits sub-fund including the RIEESA would be carrying on the business, the liquidator administrator may agree unable to meet its obligations to policyholders and its capital to the variation of any contracts of insurance in existence when requirements or the Old WPSF would be unable to meet its the winding-up order is made, but must not effect any new obligations to policyholders: and contracts of insurance.
following the sixth annual investigation after 1 October 2009 or later investigation and provided that investigation and investigations made in the previous 2 years determined that the Reattributed Inherited Estate exceeded the Permitted Release Threshold.
298 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual report and accounts 2013 structures and Aviva complies with the local regulation in each United States of the countries in which it operates.
During part of 2013 we wrote life and annuity business in the Industry regulation typically focuses on financial stability, i. e. United States through Aviva USA Corporation Aviva USA, minimum capital and the basis for calculating solvency, reserves which was a wholly owned subsidiary formed by the merger of and policyholder liability.
In many of the markets regulators Aviva Life Insurance Company of America with AmerUS which it have the power to revoke operating licences, regulate acquired in July 2006.
Aviva USA was domiciled in Iowa and shareholder structures and the participation in and the payment was the holding company for Aviva Life and Annuity Company of dividends.
Asia markets are moving quickly to modernise which was licensed to conduct business in all states except New insurance regulation with an increasing focus on governance York and Washington D. C. In New York it operated a wholly and conduct of business.
owned subsidiary, Aviva Life Insurance Company of New York.
Aviva plc reached agreement, in December 2012, to sell Aviva Intellectual property USA and the sale was completed in October 2013.
Our primary brands the Aviva name and logo are registered The US insurance industry is regulated primarily on a statetrademarks in the UK and are registered or pending in all other by-state basis.
Individual states have authority to pass statutes, countries where Aviva has operations.
adopt regulation or issue directives to regulate insurance Aviva has an active programme of review of marks and activities within their jurisdiction.
There are no material infringements Consequently, life insurance companies are subject to in the UK known to us as at the date of this report, either by the regulation both in their domicile state as well as in each state Group or third parties.
State regulation can vary from state to state.
All have laws and regulations covering the financial aspects of the insurance business, including standards of solvency, reserves, reinsurance and capital adequacy.
In addition, most states have specific regulation governing licensing and the conduct of selling agents as well as the approval of products and associated product forms and literature.
Canada We write property and casualty business in Canada via a number of wholly owned companies.
Insurance business in Canada is regulated federally by the Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions OSFI for prudential supervision i. e. capital adequacy, solvency, etc.
OSFI derives its powers from the federal Insurance Companies Act Canada which governs the structure and operation of federally incorporated insurance companies.
The capital adequacy of insurance companies is monitored under the Minimum Capital Test MCT, a risk-based framework allowing for capital to be assessed on the basis of an individual companys risk profile taking account of the investments held and insurance business being written.
Companies have their own internal MCT target that is communicated to OSFI, which is set to ensure that they maintain capital in excess of 150% of the OSFI minimum requirement.
Market conduct regulation is conducted at the provincial level through ten independent provincial regulators.
Those regulators derive their powers from insurance acts enacted by provincial legislatures.
Market conduct regulation focuses on personal lines products and business practices, including rating formulas, underwriting and policy terms and conditions.
Commercial lines insurance is not subject to similar regulations.
Asia We operate in Asia through a network of subsidiary companies either wholly owned or established as a joint venture with a local partner.
Our business is predominantly long-term and savings business, with small general insurance and health operations.
There are wholly owned businesses in Singapore and Hong Kong.
During 2013 Aviva also operated businesses in China, India, Malaysia, Taiwan, Korea, Indonesia and Vietnam which, depending on the nature and extent of the control exerted by Aviva, were accounted for as subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
The business in Malaysia was sold in April 2013.
The Asia area is made up of a number of widely differing and independent markets.
The markets tend to be at different stages in their development but each has its own regulatory
