64 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 Investor Information Results Dividends Half year announced June Ordinary shares: Full year announced January First interim paid end May Second interim paid end August The Report and Financial Statements are posted to shareholders Third interim paid end November in January and the AGM is held in London in late February.
Final paid end February Share Price Information Debenture stock interest The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published 1 10 % debenture stock 2016 and 8% debenture stock 2023 2 in The Financial Times and other leading newspapers.
paid on 30 April and 31 October.
The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List SEDOL code is Ongoing charges 0076700.
Ongoing charges are those expenses of a type which are likely to The share price and details of the Companys performance recur in the foreseeable future, whether charged to capital or can be found on the following websites: revenue, and which relate to the operation of the Company as a www.
com and collective fund, excluding the costs of acquisition or disposal of www.
com investments, financing charges and gains or losses arising on investments.
Ongoing charges are based on actual costs incurred The Financial Times also provides on a daily basis an estimate of in the year as being the best estimate of future costs.
the net asset value and of the discount premium.
Nominee Code A brief history The Bankers Investment Trust PLC undertakes to provide The Company was incorporated in 1888.
Since seven of the nine copies of shareholder communications to nominee operators original directors were bankers by profession, the name The who have indicated in advance a wish to receive them for Bankers Investment Trust, Limited was considered appropriate.
the purpose of distribution to their customers.
The Company has paid dividends on the equity capital every year since incorporation except in the years 1892 and 1893.
Nominee operators are encouraged to advise investors that they are able to attend meetings and to speak at meetings Keeping up to date with The Bankers Investment when invited by the Chairman.
Trust PLC Investors through Halifax Share Dealing Limited receive all Website shareholder communications, an invitation to the AGM and For more information about The Bankers Investment Trust PLC a Voting Instruction Form to facilitate voting.
com ISA HGi The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so that HGi is a content platform that offers a new level of online its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares component of personalisation where you can follow investment experts, an ISA.
topics and the trusts that are of interest to you.
By creating your HGi profile you will be updated regularly on the topics Disability that interest you most, bringing you closer to Hendersons Copies of this Report and Financial Statement or other investment expertise.
documents issued by the Company are available from the Company Secretary.
Scan the QR code or use this short URL to register for HGi.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, http: HGi.
co g51 including Braille or larger type as appropriate.
Follow us on Twitter You can contact our registrars, Equiniti Limited, who have To get the latest updates follow us on installed textphones to allow speech and hearing impaired Twitter @HGiTrusts people who have their own textphone to contact them directly by ringing 0871 384 2255 without the need for an intermediate Investing in Bankers operator.
Specially trained operators are available during normal Ordinary shares may be bought directly through Halifax Share business hours to answer queries via this service.
In addition, they may be bought or sold directly Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator through a stockbroker, accountant, other independent financial adviser or through a number of banks or building societies who provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People you are also providing this service.
should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
indd 64 15 01 2014 15:35 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Investor Information continued Directors Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Richard Killingbeck Chairman  LLP, Richard Burns Senior Independent Director 7 More London Riverside, Susan Inglis London SE1 2RT Matthew Thorne Registrars Audit Committee UK Registrar Matthew Thorne Chairman Equiniti Limited, Richard Burns Aspect House, Susan Inglis Spencer Road, Objectives l To achieve long term asset growth in excess of Lancing, Management Engagement Committee West Sussex BN99 6DA the FTSE All-Share Index.
Richard Killingbeck Chairman Telephone: 0871 384 2471 44 0 121 415 7047 Richard Burns Calls to this number cost 8p per minute plus network extras.
Susan Inglis Lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday.
Matthew Thorne There is now a range of shareholder information online.
You Nominations Committee l To achieve regular dividend growth in excess of the can check your holding and find practical help on transferring Richard Killingbeck Chairman shares or updating your details at www.
co. uk Richard Burns increase in the Retail Prices Index.
Susan Inglis New Zealand Registrar Computershare Investor Services Limited, Investment Manager Private Bag 92119, Henderson Global Investors Limited is Victoria Street West, authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority l Auckland 1142, New Zealand Policy To achieve both these objectives by investing in a and is represented by Alex Crooke Telephone: New Zealand 64 09 488 8777 broadly diversified international portfolio of shares.
Corporate Company Secretary Stockbrokers Henderson Secretarial Services Limited UK and is represented by Wendy King FCIS JP Morgan Cazenove, Registered Number 25 Bank Street, Registered in England No.
00026351 Canary Wharf, London E14 5SP Registered Office 201 Bishopsgate, New Zealand London EC2M 3AE First NZ Capital Securities, Telephone: 020 7818 1818 Level 20, ANZ Centre, 23-29 Albert Street, PO Box 5333, Auckland, New Zealand Solicitors Norton Rose, 3 More London Riverside, London SE1 2AQ Custodian BNP Paribas Securities Services, 55 Moorgate, London EC2R 6PA The Company is a member of Halifax Share Dealing Limited Lovell Park Road, Leeds LS1 1NS Telephone: 0845 609 0408 Email: communications@halifax Website: www.
indd 2 15 01 2014 14:15 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 October 2013 HGI9201 2013 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 October 2013 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC is managed by This report is printed on Revive, a paper containing 50% recycled fibre from both preand post-consumer waste and 50% FSC certified virgin fibre.
Pulps used are elemental chlorine free manufactured at a mill accredited with the ISO 14001 environmental management system.
This report was printed by Pureprint Group using their pureprint environmental print technology which minimises the negative environmental impacts of the printing process.
Vegetable-based inks were used throughout and 99% of the dry waste and 95% of the cleaning solvents associated with this production were recycled.
Pureprint Group is a CarbonNeutral company.
Printed by Pureprint, London HGI9201 2013 79709 HGI Bankers Cover.
