The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2013 31 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for and regulations.
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the The directors consider that the Report and Financial directors have prepared the financial statements in Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and accordance with International Financial Reporting understandable and provide the information necessary for Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Under company law the directors must not approve the business model and strategy.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company Statement of Directors Responsibilities under and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
12 preparing these financial statements, the directors are Each of the directors, who are listed on page 22, confirms required to: that, to the best of his or her knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Company financial statements, which have been consistently: prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the make judgements and accounting estimates that are EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, reasonable and prudent: financial position and profit of the Company: and state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the the Strategic Report in this Report and Financial European Union have been followed, subject to any Statements includes a fair review of the development and material departures disclosed and explained in the performance of the business and the position of the financial statements: and Company, together with a description of the principal risks prepare the financial statements on the going concern and uncertainties that it faces.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate For and on behalf of the Board accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Richard Killingbeck the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable Chairman accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable it to ensure that the Financial 17 January 2014 The financial statements are published on the www.
com website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by Henderson or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of Henderson.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
