Strategy and operating environment The landscape for banks has fundamentally changed and will continue to evolve in the coming years.
We believe We will not be able to these changes are not cyclical but represent a structural shift.
Our Transform programme, launched in 2013, will generate sustainable reshape Barclays to generate sustainable returns and to returns over the long term meet the needs of all of our stakeholders.
unless we act at all times Market and operating environment Barclays is a global financial services provider with our home markets with good values.
in UK, US, and South Africa, and distribution and operations in a further 47 countries.
Banks are invariably exposed to the economies and markets in which they operate.
This exposure ranges from mortgage lending dependent on the ability of borrowers to repay and house price valuations to corporate advisory which may reflect business confidence in the economy.
Prior to the financial crisis, global growth was supportive with banks well-positioned to benefit from their exposure to the upward trajectory of the global economy.
Global economic growth has faltered in recent years.
This has prompted unprecedented monetary policies across central banks, for example quantitative easing and near zero interest rates.
This policy response has, in turn, posed new challenges for banks such as compressed interest margins.
While global economic growth remained below the long-term trend in 2013, we saw improved consumer confidence and business sentiment in both the UK and US.
Even with these grass root recoveries emerging in two of our home markets, we remain cognisant that global economic growth is expected to be subdued for a prolonged period.
Financial regulatory frameworks are evolving, as global regulators continue to respond to the issues that emerged during the financial crisis.
It is clear that intensive and intrusive regulation is here to stay.
Prudential reforms ranging from the UK Banking Reform Act to the US Dodd Frank Act are fundamentally changing the way that banks manage their capital, liquidity and risk.
A further challenge to the banking industry, and indeed to Barclays, in recent years is one of poor conduct, damaging our reputation and causing a loss of trust amongst our customers, clients and stakeholders.
We recognise the importance of rebuilding trust in Barclays as well as meeting, and bettering, the developing needs of our customers and clients.
Transform: delivering our strategy The quality and commitment of the people at Barclays, combined with The Transform programme is the way in which we will deliver our underlying financial strength, means we start our transformation our strategy.
With the initial Turnaround phase complete, from a good position.
The Barclays Strategic Review, commenced in we now look forward to Return Acceptable Numbers and to Q4 2012, is a part of a long-term programme to transform the culture Sustain Forward Momentum.
and performance of Barclays over the next three to five years.
Where we are now 0-9 months Stabilise the organisation, provide context for Turnaround the change to come, maintain short-term momentum 0-3 years Improve business returns, define and Return Acceptable execute the plan to deliver RoE above CoE Numbers 0-5 years Become the Go-To bank for our stakeholders Sustain FORward customers and clients, colleagues, investors, and wider society Momentum 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 06 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Group overview 02 It is important that we understand the Chief Executives strategic review 04 conditions in which we operate in order Strategy and operating environment 06 to run the company effectively.
Business model Value creation 08 Balanced Scorecard 10 In this section we aim to highlight some Group Finance Directors review 12 of the major external factors affecting Strategic Risk overview 14 Barclays and how we aim to address Performance review by division 18 these factors through our strategy.
Chairmans governance overview 46 Summary remuneration report 48 A strong culture is the first line of defence against repeating the Barclays sustainable success will be assured by mistakes of the past.
To unite around Barclays Values and Behaviours, becoming the Go-To bank for all of our stakeholders.
If we published The Barclays Way to govern our way of working across we understand their needs and priorities and ensure that our business globally.
Colleagues are essential to embedding our these are at the heart of our decision-making, we will be Purpose and Values and, in 2013, all colleagues attended Values and Behaviours engagement sessions.
able to build a bank which is lower-risk, more predictable and higher-performing.
Reward and incentivisation is a critical enabler of behavioural change.
As of 2014, colleague performance will be measured and rewarded not The strategic response only on what an employee delivers but also how they achieve their In 2013, we launched the Transform programme to deliver the objectives.
As such, remuneration will align with Barclays Purpose, recommendations of the Strategic Review.
Transform is the plan that Values and Behaviours as well as the Group Balanced Scorecard.
will help Barclays become the Go-To bank.
It has three overall goals: Turnaround, Return Acceptable Numbers, Sustain FORward As of February 2013 control functions now have solid reporting lines Momentum.
into the Group CEO rather than business heads to avoid conflict of interest.
Turnaround the business Turnaround was the immediate task of stabilising the business and The Remuneration Committee will embed aggregate and individual maintaining momentum.
In the second half of 2012, we delivered our incentive risk adjustments with additional Compliance and Risk input.
new goal, purpose, and values to unite Barclays with a shared sense of Furthermore, our principal risk framework has been enhanced with the direction how we will do business.
inclusion of conduct risk and reputation risk and a revised EnterpriseWide Risk Committee will ensure adequate Board oversight.
We have put in place a new Executive team which is focused on delivery.
The vast majority of our 139,600 colleagues have participated To address the cost challenge, we have focused on creating the right in workshops and training in Barclays values.
To cement our cultural level of financial analytics and on improving operational efficiencies.
change, a guide for behaviour The Barclays Way has been published The key elements of our cost programme are right-sizing our internally and externally.
businesses, industrialising handling of customer transactions and queries, and adopting innovative technology and automated Return Acceptable Numbers processing.
In 2013, we turned our attention towards the longer-term transformation of Barclays.
For our Return Acceptable Numbers phase, Focus of efforts in 2014 we are fide-risking and fide-leveraging the business to make it more In 2014, we will continue to build on the progress made in 2013.
We will sustainable for the long term.
focus on delivering on our financial commitments and expect to see the benefits of our 2013 work on cost begin to crystallise.
We committed to consolidate to core lines of business, to generate 1.7bn of cost savings by 2015, to lower our RWAs, funding and We aim to respond positively to the evolving regulatory landscape.
We liquidity, and to reach a Core Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.5%.
See page 238 have sought to constructively engage our regulators and improve our for further details on the Transform financial commitments.
regulatory and public disclosures in order to improve transparency and consistency with societys expectations.
In 2013, we: Completed a 5.8bn rights issue in October The new regulatory and emerging business environment will inevitably call for continued rigorous review and adaption of the mix and Issued 2.1bn of CRDIV and PRA-qualifying Additional Tier 1 AT1 structure of the businesses of the Bank to ensure we generate capital sustainable returns.
Reduced CRDIV leverage exposure by 196bn in H2 2013 to 1,363bn, of which an estimated 55bn related to foreign exchange However, care needs to be taken to ensure that regulation does not go too far.
A healthy banking sector ensuring returns above the cost of Drove improvements in our loan-to-deposit ratio to 101% at equity is essential to economic growth.
Vibrant economies need vibrant December 2013 banks.
It is therefore important to ensure that the rightly-increased focus by the regulator on conduct supervision does not inadvertently Additionally, we reduced legacy assets in our Exit Quadrant portfolios result in the withdrawal of services and the restriction of choice.
by 40bn through Investment Bank legacy asset reductions of 17bn and derivative efficiencies of 23bn.
Another key focus over 2013 and the coming years is rebuilding the trust that customers, clients, and stakeholders have in our organisation.
Sustain Forward Momentum We have pledged to increase transparency and conduct our business in Our journey to Go-To depends on continuing to adapt Barclays for the the right way, as set out in our values.
future and ensuring that we do not return to a short-term bias as we execute our plans.
In order to Sustain FORward Momentum, we have We need to better respond to the current needs and anticipate the also set in place longer-term markers in four critical areas: Culture, future demands of our customers and clients.
As they become Rewards, Control and Cost.
increasingly technology savvy we have worked to embed technology across our product offering.
This ranges from payment innovations The Board-commissioned Salz Review also prompted us to review our such as PingIt to expanding our Investment Banks electronic trading conduct.
We are committed to being open and transparent and to platform BARX.
regaining the trust of all of Barclays stakeholders.
We have integrated our necessary behavioural transformation into our Transform programme.
Full details on our response to the Salz Review can be found on pages 126 to 129. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 07 Business model Value creation Barclays is a globally diversified, universal bank that is, we offer an integrated set of products and services across Our customers and clients retail banking, wealth management, commercial and investment banking serving individuals, corporations, are at the centre of our institutions, and governments.
Delivering value Ensuring we deliver our obligations to shareholders whilst meeting societys needs in a responsive manner Barlays helps create, grow and protect We do this by providing We differentiate ourselves wealth so that individuals, corporations, essential banking services from competitors in our countries and wider society can achieve across sectors, regions and credentials and our approach their ambitions in the right way around the world Individual customers want a safe place A full suite of savings and A long, proud and stable history to store their savings and grow their investments, credit and loan facilities, over 300 years serving customers wealth, as well as access to loans and and payment services to meet the and clients credit cards to finance their purchases, day-to-day banking needs of our A strong, well-funded, globally and current accounts to make and individual customers.
diversified balance sheet with receive payments.
Payment processing and working multiple stock market listings Companies want to make and receive capital facilities for small and large Global reach and representation payments, seek funds for business businesses alike, helping them receive through our home markets in UK, growth, and require advice on starting, money and pay staff and suppliers.
US, and South Africa buying, and selling businesses.
A full global suite of investment bank World-class products and services Leading international companies, services from corporate finance to and a track-record of innovating for sovereigns, and institutions want to macroeconomic research, and capital customers and clients raise or deploy capital, move money in markets execution to risk and across jurisdictions, and advice on management.
High calibre finance professionals mergers and acquisitions.
committed to helping their customers and clients achieve their ambitions in the right way We generate income from Our approach delivers broader supplying these services in value in the unique way we do various ways business Our net interest margin the High quality service for customers difference between the interest we and clients globally pay on deposits and the risk-adjusted Together, our Challenging, meaningful and returns we receive for deploying that activities generate fulfilling careers for our people in a capital productively through loans sustainable returns over values-driven organisation and advances to our lending the long-term for our customers and clients Long-term sustainable returns for shareholders and help our our investors, based on diversified wider stakeholders Fees charged for the delivery of income streams and risk realise their ambitions transaction services, advice and financial solutions Employment and economic growth in the economies in which we Commission and spreads on operate transactions in our investment bank Engagement with governments and civil society to address social issues and needs 08 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Group overview 02 Our business model is the mechanism Chief Executives strategic review 04 for delivering our social purpose.
As Strategy and operating environment 06 such, in this section, we outline how Business model Value creation 08 the Group delivers services to our Balanced Scorecard 10 customers, how we make money on Group Finance Directors review 12 those services, and how our model and Strategic Risk overview 14 approach differs from our competitors.
Performance review by division 18 Chairmans governance overview 46 Summary remuneration report 48 Our business model The sum of the parts Barclays seeks to satisfy the needs of our customers and clients by Our business model enables us to maintain relevance to our customers offering a rounded value proposition a full range of products and and clients, whatever stage of life they are in.
For example, this means services and thereby, we aim to achieve a smoother income stream being ready to help business owners launch a business, fund its and sustainable returns.
growth, expand internationally, and protect against currency risk.
For individuals, our model can provide a safe place to store savings, help a Barclays competitive advantage is created by the scale and diversity of first-time buyer make their first steps onto the property ladder, create our businesses and the quality, character and relationships of our an investment portfolio as wealth grows, or provide cross-border advice for the affluent.
We seek to add value to our clients through our end-to-end network, Our Retail and Business Banking businesses operate through a regional model, focusing on delivering targeted solutions to individuals and for example an individual retail customer in the UK is able to access current and savings account balances along with Barclaycard data all small businesses.
We operate retail banks in UK UK RBB, Africa Africa RBB, and Europe Europe RBB.
on the same mobile banking app.
Pingit, our peer to peer payments service, is seamlessly integrated within our retail banking offering, a Barclaycard, Investment Bank, Corporate Banking and Wealth and further example of this joined up approach to the way we do business.
Investment Management operate in global models, leveraging their offerings to provide comprehensive solutions across borders.
Our international reach and scale means we have the responsibility, indeed obligation following our designation as a Global Systemically We are increasingly operating a shared service model for Central Important Financial Institution, to work together with our regulators to fide-risk the industry and provide a more sustainable banking landscape Functions.
Improved functionalisation has allowed us to take advantage of synergies through the sharing of ideas and collaboration over the long term.
We are actively engaging with UK, EU, and US banking supervisors to develop a new model for the industry and to from cross-functional working groups.
ensure our business is sustainable and flexible ready for the future.
Meeting customer and client needs Our value proposition Our customers and clients are at the centre of our goal and purpose and we seek to become their Go-To bank both through the excellence of our products and services and also through the way in which we do business.
As we continue to transform Barclays, we believe we can become the bank of choice for all of our stakeholders.
Individuals Small and Medium Corporates Financial Sovereigns size businesses Institutions and Institutions and Banks A safe place to Current accounts and overdrafts save, invest, and Savings, deposit and investment products manage cash Mobile and digital payments Stockbroking and trading services Access to global financial markets Cash management, payment systems, and international trade services Funds for Residential mortgages, Commercial mortgages and business loans purchases and consumer loans and Asset and lease finance, trade and supplier finance and working growth credit cards capital solutions Global capital markets Large corporate and inter-bank lending Management Foreign exchange rate hedging of business and Fixed rate loans financial risks Inflation and interest rate hedging Financial and Wealth Advisory and Relationship managers and support Private Banking business support Business seminars Global investment research and advice on mergers & acquisitions services and start-up accelerator space barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 09
