Financial review Balance sheet commentary Total liabilities Total assets Total assets decreased 176bn to 1,312bn principally reflecting lower Total liabilities decreased 180bn to 1,248bn.
derivative assets due to increases in forward interest rates and exposure reduction initiatives with central clearing parties and a Deposits from banks decreased by 22bn to 55bn primarily driven by reduction in cash collateral due to lower derivative mark to market and reduction in cash and balances at central banks due to a decrease in the liquidity pool.
Cash and balances at central banks and items in course of collection Customer accounts increased by 11% to 428bn due to a 19.5bn increase in UK RBB deposits, a 15.2bn increase in settlements and from other banks decreased 41bn to 47bn as the cash contribution to the Group liquidity pool was reduced.
cash collateral balances within the Investment Bank, a 9.6bn increase within Wealth and Investment Management, primarily reflected in the Trading portfolio assets deceased 13bn to 133bn due to a reduction High Net Worth business, and a 9.1bn increase in the Corporate Bank, from UK deposit growth.
in debt securities and other eligible bills driven by a decrease in trading activity within the rates business within the Investment Bank.
This Repurchase agreements and other similar secured borrowing decrease was partially offset by an increase in equity securities reflecting higher client volume in the equities and prime services decreased 20bn to 197bn driven by a reduction in trading desks funding requirements partially offset by increased matched book businesses in the Investment Bank.
Financial assets designated at fair value decreased by 8bn to 39bn primarily reflecting decreases in debt securities due to the unwinding Trading portfolio liabilities increased 9bn to 53bn primarily driven by increases in equity securities and debt securities.
Financial liabilities designated at fair value decreased 14bn to 65bn Derivative financial assets decreased 145bn to 324bn primarily driven by a reduction in interest rate derivatives reflecting the decrease primarily reflecting trade maturities, buybacks unwinding of existing notes due to favourable market conditions and reduced funding in mark-to-market valuations driven by increases in the major interest rate forward curves and balance sheet reduction initiatives.
Available for sale investments increased 17bn to 92bn primarily Derivative financial liabilities decreased 142bn to 321bn in line with the decrease in derivative assets.
driven by an increase in debt securities in the liquidity pool as the mix of the pool is being adjusted from cash to eligible securities to Debt securities in issue decreased 33bn to 87bn due to non-renewal increase returns.
of certificates of deposit and commercial paper primarily driven by reduced funding requirements.
Total loans and advances to banks and customers remained stable at 468bn 2012: 464bn including increased settlement balances of Subordinated liabilities decreased by 2bn to 22bn due to 8.5bn, 4.4bn additional balances in UK RBB acquired through Barclays Direct, 1.8bn growth within Barclaycard across the UK and redemptions in the year of subordinated notes, exchange movements international business and a 1.8bn increase within Wealth and and fair value hedge movements.
This was partially offset by the Investment Management.
These increases were offset by a 5.7bn issuance of 652m of Contingent Capital Notes CCNs and 48m decrease within South Africa primarily due to the depreciation of ZAR of other subordinated fixed rate notes.
Shareholders equity Reverse repurchase agreements increased by 10bn to 187bn, driven Total shareholders equity increased 4bn to 64bn.
by increased matched book trading opportunities and trading desks funding requirements.
Share capital and share premium increased by 7bn to 20bn reflecting an increase of 5.8bn from the issuance of 3.2bn additional shares through the rights issue.
Other equity instruments increased by 2.1bn due to the issuance of equity accounted AT1 securities.
Retained earnings decreased 1bn to 33bn driven by dividends paid of 0.9bn and a 0.5bn reduction due to an increase in retirement benefit liabilities.
The available for sale reserve decreased 0.4bn to 0.1bn driven by net losses on the fair value of debt securities held as part of the liquidity pool, offset partially by gains from fair value movements on hedging instruments.
Currency translation reserve decreased 1.2bn to 1.1bn, largely due to the strengthening of GBP against the USD and ZAR.
Non-controlling interests decreased 0.8bn to 8.6bn, primarily reflecting dividend payments of 0.8bn and currency translation movements of 0.6bn due to the depreciation of ZAR against GBP.
These movements were offset by profit after tax of 0.8bn.
Net asset value per share decreased 20% to 331p and net tangible asset value per share decreased 19% to 283p.
The decreases were mainly attributable to the issuance of shares as part of the rights issue, and decreases in the cash flow hedging and currency translation reserves.
248 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
