Shareholder information vi The Board may appoint any Director to any executive position or Articles of Association The Company is a public limited company registered in England and employment in the Company on such terms as they determine.
Barclays, originally named vii The Company may by ordinary resolution remove a Director Barclay & Company Limited, was incorporated in England and Wales on before the expiry of his her period of office without prejudice to a 20 July 1896 under the Companies Acts 1862 to 1890 as a company claim for damages for breach of contract or otherwise and may limited by shares.
The company name was changed to Barclays Bank by ordinary resolution appoint another person who is willing to act Limited on 17 February 1917 and it was registered on 15 February 1982 to be a Director in his her place.
as a public limited company under the Companies Acts 1948 to 1980. viii A Director may appoint either another Director or some other On 1 January 1985, the Company changed its name to Barclays PLC.
person approved by the Board to act as his her alternate with power to attend Board meetings and generally to exercise the Under the Companies Act 2006 a companys Memorandum of Association now need contain only the names of the subscribers and functions of the appointing Director in his her absence other than the power to appoint an alternate.
the number of shares each subscriber has agreed to take.
For companies in existence as of 1 October 2009, all other provisions ix The Board may authorise any matter in relation to which a which were contained in the companys Memorandum of Association, Director has, or can have, a direct interest that conflicts, or including the companys objects, are now deemed to be contained in possibly may conflict with, the Companys interests.
Only Directors the companys Articles.
The Companies Act 2006 also states that a who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to companys objects are unrestricted unless the companys Articles authorise the relevant matter and they may impose limits or provide otherwise.
conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Articles of Association were adopted at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 30 April 2010 and amended at the AGM of x A Director may hold positions with or be interested in other companies and, subject to legislation applicable to the Company the Company on 25 April 2013. and the FCAs requirements, may contract with the Company or any other company in which the Company is interested.
A Director The Company may, by special resolution, amend its Articles of Association.
may not vote or count towards the quorum on any resolution concerning any proposal in which he she or any person The following is a summary and explanation of the current Articles of connected with him her has a material interest other than by virtue of his her interest in securities of the Company or if he she Association.
has a duty which conflicts or may conflict with the interests of the Company, unless the resolution relates to any proposal: Directors i The minimum number of Directors excluding alternate Directors a to indemnify a Director or provide him her with a guarantee is five.
There is no maximum limit.
There is no age limit for or security in respect of money lent by him her to, or any Directors.
obligation incurred by him her or any other person for the ii Excluding executive remuneration and any other entitlement to benefit of or at the request of, the Company or any other member of the Group : remuneration for extra services including service on board committees under the Articles, a Director is entitled to a fee at a b to indemnify or give security or a guarantee to a third party in rate determined by the Board but the aggregate fees paid to all respect of a debt or obligation of the Company or any other Directors shall not exceed 2,000,000 per annum or such higher member of the Group for which the Director has personally amount as may be approved by an ordinary resolution of the assumed responsibility: Company.
Each Director is entitled to reimbursement for all c to obtain insurance for the benefit of Directors: reasonable travelling, hotel and other expenses properly incurred by him her in or about the performance of his her duties.
d involving the acquisition by a Director of any securities of the iii No Director may act either himself herself or through his her Company or any other member of the Group pursuant to an firm as an auditor of the Company.
A Director may hold any other offer to existing holders of securities or to the public: office of the Company on such terms as the Board shall determine.
e that the Director underwrite any issue of securities of the Company or any other member of the Group : iv At each AGM of the Company, one third of the Directors rounded down are required under the Articles of Association to retire from f concerning any other company in which the Director is office by rotation and may offer themselves for re-election.
The interested as an officer or creditor or Shareholder but, broadly, Directors so retiring are first, those who wish to retire and not only if he she together with his her connected persons is offer themselves for re-election and, second those who have been directly or indirectly interested in less than 1% of either any longest in office and in the case of equality of service length are class of the issued equity share capital or of the voting rights selected by lot.
Other than a retiring Director, no person shall of that company: and unless recommended by the Board be eligible for election unless g concerning any other arrangement for the benefit of a member notifies the Company Secretary in advance of his her intention to propose a person for election.
It is Barclays practice employees of the Company or any other member of the Group under which the Director benefits or stands to benefit that all Directors offer themselves for re-election annually in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
in a similar manner to the employees concerned and which does not give the Director any advantage which the v The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to fill a employees to whom the arrangement relates would not casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any Director so appointed receive.
holds office until the next AGM, when he she may offer himself herself for reappointment.
He she is not taken into account in determining the number of Directors retiring by rotation.
424 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information If the Board considers that the distributable profits of the Company xi A Director may not vote or be counted in the quorum on any resolution which concerns his her own employment or available for distribution are insufficient to cover the payment in full of Preference Dividends, Preference Dividends shall be paid to the extent appointment to any office of the Company or any other company in which the Company is interested.
of the distributable profits on a pro rata basis.
xii Subject to applicable legislation, the provisions described in Notwithstanding the above the Board may, at its absolute discretion, sub-paragraphs x and xi may be relaxed or suspended by an determine that any Preference Dividend which would otherwise be ordinary resolution of the members of the Company or any payable may either not be payable at all or only payable in part.
applicable governmental or other regulatory body.
xiii A Director is required to hold an interest in ordinary shares having If any Preference Dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid, or is only paid in part, for the reasons described above, holders of a nominal value of at least 500, which currently equates to 2,000 Ordinary Shares unless restricted from acquiring or holding such Preference Shares will not have a claim in respect of such noninterest by any applicable law or regulation or any applicable payment.
governmental or other regulatory body.
A Director may act before acquiring those shares but must acquire the qualification shares If any dividend on a series of Preference Shares is not paid in full on the within two months from his her appointment.
Where a Director is relevant dividend payment date, a dividend restriction shall apply.
The unable to acquire the requisite number of shares within that time dividend restriction means that, subject to certain exceptions, neither owing to law, regulation or requirement of any governmental or the Company nor Barclays Bank PLC may a pay a dividend on, or b other relevant authority, he she must acquire the shares as soon redeem, purchase, reduce or otherwise acquire, any of their respective as reasonably practicable once the restriction s end.
Ordinary Shares, other Preference Shares or other share capital ranking equal or junior to the relevant series of Preference Shares until the xiv The Board may exercise all of the powers of the Company to earlier of such time as the Company next pays in full a dividend on the borrow money, to mortgage or charge its undertaking, property relevant series of Preference Shares or the date on which all of the and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities.
relevant series of Preference Shares are redeemed.
Classes of shares All unclaimed dividends payable in respect of any share may be The Company only has Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Articles of invested or otherwise made use of by the Board for the benefit of the Association also provide for pound sterling preference shares of 100 Company until claimed.
If a dividend is not claimed after 12 years of it each, US dollar preference shares of $100 each, US dollar preference becoming payable, it is forfeited and reverts to the Company.
shares of $0.25 each, euro preference shares of 100 each and yen preference shares of 10,000 each together, the Preference Shares.
In The Board may, with the approval of an ordinary resolution of the accordance with the authority granted at the AGM on 25 April 2013, Company, offer Shareholders the right to choose to receive an Preference Shares may be issued by the Board from time to time in one allotment of additional fully paid Ordinary Shares instead of cash in or more series with such rights and subject to such restrictions and respect of all or part of any dividend.
The Company currently provides a limitations as the Board may determine.
No Preference Shares have scrip dividend programme pursuant to an authority granted at the been issued to date.
Dividends Voting Subject to the provisions of the Articles and applicable legislation, the Every member who is present in person or represented at any general Company in general meeting may declare dividends on the Ordinary meeting of the Company, and who is entitled to vote, has one vote on a Shares by ordinary resolution, but any such dividend may not exceed show of hands.
Every proxy present has one vote.
The proxy will have the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may also pay one vote for and one vote against a resolution if he she has been interim or final dividends if it appears they are justified by the instructed to vote for or against the resolution by different members or Companys financial position.
in one direction by a member while another member has permitted the proxy discretion as to how to vote.
On a poll, every member who is Each Preference Share confers the right to a preferential dividend present or represented and who is entitled to vote has one vote for Preference Dividend payable in such currency at such rates whether every share held.
In the case of joint holders, only the vote of the senior fixed or calculated by reference to, or in accordance with, a specified holder as determined by order in the share register or his proxy may procedure or mechanism, on such dates and on such other terms as be counted.
If any sum payable remains unpaid in relation to a may be determined by the Board prior to allotment thereof.
members shareholding, that member is not entitled to vote that share or exercise any other right in relation to a meeting of the Company The Preference Shares rank in regard to payment of dividends in unless the Board otherwise determine.
priority to the holders of Ordinary Shares and any other class of shares in the Company ranking junior to the Preference Shares.
If any member, or any other person appearing to be interested in any of the Companys Ordinary Shares, is served with a notice under Section Dividends may be paid on the Preference Shares if, in the opinion of the 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and does not supply the Company with Board, the Company has sufficient distributable profits, after payment the information required in the notice, then the Board, in its absolute in full or the setting aside of a sum to provide for all dividends payable discretion, may direct that that member shall not be entitled to attend on or in the case of shares carrying a cumulative right to dividends, or vote at any meeting of the Company.
The Board may further direct before the relevant dividend payment date on any class of shares in that if the shares of the defaulting member represent 0.25% or more of the Company ranking pari passu with or in priority to the relevant series the issued shares of the relevant class, that dividends or other monies of Preference Shares as regards participation in the profits of the payable on those shares shall be retained by the Company until the Company.
direction ceases to have effect and that no transfer of those shares shall be registered other than certain specified excepted transfers.
A direction ceases to have effect seven days after the Company has received the information requested, or when the Company is notified that an excepted transfer of all of the relevant shares to a third party has occurred, or as the Board otherwise determines.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 425 Shareholder information continued Transfers Redemption and Purchase Ordinary Shares may be held in either certificated or uncertificated Subject to applicable legislation and the rights of the other form.
Certificated Ordinary Shares shall be transferred in writing in any Shareholders, any share may be issued on terms that it is, at the option usual or other form approved by the Board and executed by or on of the Company or the holder of such share, redeemable.
The Directors behalf of the transferor.
Transfers of uncertificated Ordinary Shares are authorised to determine the terms, conditions and manner of shall be made in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and CREST redemption of any such shares under the Articles of Association.
Calls on capital The Board is not bound to register a transfer of partly paid Ordinary The Directors may make calls upon the members in respect of any Shares, or fully paid shares in exceptional circumstances approved by monies unpaid on their shares.
A person upon whom a call is made the FCA.
The Board may also decline to register an instrument of remains liable even if the shares in respect of which the call is made transfer of certificated Ordinary Shares unless it is duly stamped and have been transferred.
Interest will be chargeable on any unpaid deposited at the prescribed place and accompanied by the share amount called at a rate determined by the Board of not more than certificate s and such other evidence as reasonably required by the 20% per annum.
Board to evidence right to transfer, it is in respect of one class of shares only, and it is in favour of a single transferee or not more than four joint If a member fails to pay any call in full following notice from the Board transferees except in the case of executors or trustees of a member.
that such failure will result in forfeiture of the relevant shares, such shares including any dividends declared but not paid may be forfeited Preference Shares may be represented by share warrants to bearer or by a resolution of the Board, and will become the property of the be in registered form.
Forfeiture shall not absolve a previous member for amounts payable by him her which may continue to accrue interest.
Preference Shares represented by share warrants to bearer are transferred by delivery of the relevant warrant.
Preference Shares in The Company also has a lien over all partly paid shares of the Company registered form shall be transferred in writing in any usual or other for all monies payable or called on that share and over the debts and form approved by the Board and executed by or on behalf of the liabilities of a member to the Company.
If any monies which are the transferor.
The Companys registrar shall register such transfers of subject of the lien remain unpaid after a notice from the Board Preference Shares in registered form by making the appropriate entries demanding payment, the Company may sell such shares.
in the register of Preference Shares.
Variation of Rights Each Preference Share shall confer, in the event of a winding up or any The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied either with the return of capital by reduction of capital other than, unless otherwise consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the provided by their terms of issue, a redemption or purchase by the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of special resolution Company of any of its issued shares, or a reduction of share capital, passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
the right to receive out of the surplus assets of the Company available for distribution amongst the members and in priority to the holders of The rights of shares shall not unless expressly provided by the rights the Ordinary Shares and any other shares in the Company ranking attached to such shares be deemed varied by the creation of further junior to the relevant series of Preference Shares and pari passu with shares ranking equally with them or subsequent to them.
any other class of Preference Shares other than any class of shares then in issue ranking in priority to the relevant series of Preference Shares, repayment of the amount paid up or treated as paid up in respect of the nominal value of the Preference Share together with any premium which was paid or treated as paid when the Preference Share was issued in addition to an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends.
426 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Annual and other general meetings In respect of joint holdings, documents or information shall be sent to The Company is required to hold an AGM in addition to such other the joint holder whose name stands first in the register.
general meetings as the Directors think fit.
The type of the meeting will be specified in the notice calling it.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the A member who having no registered address within the UK has not AGM must be held within six months of the financial year end.
A supplied an address in the UK at which documents or information may general meeting may be convened by the Board on requisition in be sent in hard copy form, or an address to which notices, documents accordance with the applicable legislation.
or information may be sent or supplied by electronic means, is not entitled to have documents or information sent to him her.
In the case of an AGM, a minimum of 21 clear days notice is required.
The notice must be in writing and must specify the place, the day and In addition, the Company may cease to send notices to any member the hour of the meeting, and the general nature of the business to be who has been sent documents on two consecutive occasions over a transacted.
A notice convening a meeting to pass a special resolution period of at least 12 months and when each of those documents is shall specify the intention to propose the resolution as such.
The returned undelivered or notification is received that they have not been accidental failure to give notice of a general meeting or the non-receipt delivered.
of such notice will not invalidate the proceedings at such meeting.
Capitalisation of profits Subject as noted above, all Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote The Company may, by ordinary resolution, upon the recommendation at general meetings.
The Articles do, however, provide that of the Board, capitalise all or any part of an amount standing to the arrangements may be made for simultaneous attendance at a satellite credit of a reserve or fund to be set free for distribution provided that meeting place or, if the meeting place is inadequate to accommodate amounts from the share premium account, capital redemption reserve all members and proxies entitled to attend, another meeting place may or any profits not available for distribution should be applied only in be arranged to accommodate such persons other than that specified in paying up unissued shares to be allotted to members credited as fully the notice of meeting, in which case Shareholders may be excluded paid and no unrealised profits shall be applied in paying up debentures from the principal place.
of the Company or any amount unpaid on any share in the capital of the Company.
Holders of Preference Shares have no right to receive notice of, attend or vote at, any general meetings of the Company as a result of holding Indemnity Preference Shares.
Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former Director or other officer of the Company other than any person engaged by the Limitations on foreign shareholders company as auditor shall be indemnified by the Company against any There are no restrictions imposed by the Articles of Association or liability in relation to the Company, other than broadly any liability to the Company or a member of the Group, or any criminal or subject to the effect of any economic sanctions that may be in force from time to time by current UK laws which relate only to nonregulatory fine.
residents of the UK and which limit the rights of such non-residents to Date of hold or when entitled to do so vote the Ordinary Shares.
appointment Officers of the Group as officer Notices Lawrence Dickinson Company Secretary 2002 A document or information may be sent by the Company in hard copy Robert Le Blanc Chief Risk Officer 2004 form, electronic form, by being made available on a website, or by Chief Executive, Barclays another means agreed with the recipient, in accordance with the Maria Ramos Africa Group 2009 provisions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Accordingly, a document or information may only be sent in electronic form to a person who has Peter Estlin Financial Controller 2012 agreed to receive it in that form or, in the case of a company, who has Valerie Soranno Keating CEO, Barclaycard 2012 been deemed to have so agreed pursuant to applicable legislation.
A CEO, Retail and Business document or information may only be sent by being made available on Ashok Vaswani Banking 2012 a website if the recipient has agreed to receive it in that form or has Bob Hoyt Group General Counsel 2013 been deemed to have so agreed pursuant to applicable legislation, and has not revoked that agreement.
Co-Chief Executive, Corporate Eric Bommensath and Investment Banking 2013 Co-Chief Executive, Corporate Thomas King and Investment Banking 2013 Group Human Irene McDermott-Brown Resources Director 2013 Interim Chief Operations Darryl West and Technology Officer 2013 Skip McGee Chief Executive, Americas 2013 Chief Executive, Wealth Peter Horrell and Investment Management 2013 Mike Roemer Group Head of Compliance 2014 barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 427
