Strategic report Governance Financial statements Operational update Our operations are increasingly becoming a competitive advantage.
Ian Fantozzi Chief operating officer Beazley has seen significant premium growth over the last ten years, and we have developed a diversified underwriting portfolio that distributes globally, through 25 offices.
To support this growth we have developed an efficient and scalable operating platform that through focused investment has increasingly become a competitive advantage.
A differentiator has been our ability to deliver products more quickly to market whilst maintaining a high quality, responsive service to our clients and brokers.
We have been able to deliver excellent support for our business through the way we maintain consistency in operational standards throughout the group.
This ranges from the Beazley look and feel across all our offices, to the rigour with which our systems capture accurate data to provide insightful reporting to support business decisions.
Beazley is a specialist insurer and our success relies heavily upon the expertise of our underwriters and their ability to move quickly to meet client needs.
A vital role of operations is to give our underwriters and claims professionals the tools and the support to do this job.
In order to achieve this, we continue to implement our operations strategy.
This has five areas of focus: Supporting growth initiatives providing scalable and responsive operational support Beazley has four strategic growth initiatives at Lloyds, in the US, in Europe, and in Asia Pacific.
We continue to launch attractive new product lines for example, Beazley Flight, and tailor coverage to best meet our clients needs, by offering packaged products such as Beazley Breach Response and our healthcare solutions.
In 2013, we made great progress in standardising business processes and consolidating underwriting IT platforms for our business at Lloyds, in the US and globally outside the US.
Our systems and processes now provide better support for new product roll outs and enable greater ability to scale operational support for business growth opportunities.
The investments that we have made to our processes and IT platforms will be key to supporting Beazleys growth in the years to come.
An area of particular focus in 2013 has been the upgrading of our IT infrastructure to increase network bandwidth for all our offices and to more efficiently manage our software through a move towards thin client computing.
It is important to provide a high quality working environment that is conducive to team working and thought leadership.
Our offices are open plan, bright and airy, with a style and consistency that support our global brand.
We strive to get the best quality working space at the best lease and facility cost.
In 2013, we opened new offices in Miami and Dallas, further improving market access for our underwriters geographically.
Ensuring sustained profitability maximising economies of scale through cost efficient processes and global resourcing Beazley is organised to a large degree around global underwriting and claims teams.
This model has served us well in ensuring that products that succeed in one market can be swiftly introduced in others.
However it is important that this does not result in back office systems and support resources becoming duplicative.
In pursuit of greater efficiency and consistency of operational service we continue to make great progress in centralising operations support or outsourcing where this brings further value.
We want to make sure that operations and processing are done by appropriately skilled people, at the most cost effective location, whilst providing the best service levels.
In 2013, we centralised the back-office support for our property division in the US and brought its products onto our strategic IT platform, BeazleyPro.
This change had the dual benefit of reducing operational expense and enabling a more scalable and resilient support model for future business growth.
com Beazley 45 Annual report 2013 Operational update continued Operating within our agreed risk appetite implementing consistent governance and service ownership groupwide Effective risk management, described in more detail on page 47, requires clear visibility of the level of operational risk we maintain.
Critical to supporting an effective control environment is consistency of ownership for operations support and the provision of management information.
As we continue to make our operational support more efficient, we have defined clear ownership for processes, establishing clear accountability for process execution and planning.
This has simplified operational control reporting and strengthened our ability to provide a coordinated, rapid response to supporting business growth opportunities.
In 2013, we implemented a new enterprise risk management system.
Coupled with new reporting capability from our strategic data warehouse, Beazley Intelligence, we can now more rapidly provide risk profiles for the group across a broad range of reporting criteria.
Enabling product and service innovation supporting innovation and providing tools that differentiate our service Our strategy focuses on two types of innovation.
Firstly, there is insurance product innovation, which requires an operational platform that facilitates an efficient product pipeline from idea development through to product launch.
Secondly, there is the development of new or enhanced tools and support services that enable our employees to perform optimally in their roles.
A major focus for us in 2013 has been strengthening our ability to take new product ideas more quickly from the drawing board to the underwriting stamp.
We have built dedicated teams in both London and the US to coordinate the product innovation process, and then to bring all the operational components together for a successful market launch.
We continue to implement new technology to better support the use of mobile and tablet devices, reducing our reliance on paper and enabling better communications for our teams on a global scale.
This technology has been making it easier for our underwriters to transact business.
We have also been able to make all of our corporate governance meetings paperless.
Beazley Intelligence, our strategic data warehouse solution, continues to enable us to consolidate our trading data into a single source of management information.
In 2013, we successfully migrated our US platform data into Beazley Intelligence.
In combination with data gathered through our customer relationship system, we have started to gain valuable insights which help us further develop of our US distribution strategy.
Managing for performance developing our talent and sourcing operational skills needed for a high quality service Growing across different markets entails greater operational complexity and a requirement for additional skills in our staff.
We do not want to be limited to specific geographic pools of skilled individuals, such as project managers, IT specialists and business analysts.
Some locations such as London also have higher unit costs both to hire and to accommodate employees.
With this in mind, we continue to improve our sourcing channels to tap into different skilled resource pools.
Where possible, if we can deliver a service competently from a remote location, we will aim to do so better leveraging our more operational oriented locations, notably Connecticut and Dublin.
As with all Beazley talent we recognise the importance of developing attractive career paths.
We want to equip our operations team with the right skills for the job.
We routinely review our talent for potential skills gaps and then provide the most relevant training to ensure a high standard of service provision.
Looking ahead It is most important that we maintain consistency in our approach to delivering high quality service and continually improving operational efficiency.
The above five areas are core to our operational strategy, and we will continue to pursue these creating competitive advantage through operational service provision and in our ability to react quickly and efficiently to new business opportunities.
