Strategic report Governance Financial statements Glossary Coverholder managing general agent Aggregates aggregations Accumulations of insurance loss exposures which result A firm either in the United Kingdom or overseas authorised by a managing agent under the terms of a binding authority to from underwriting multiple risks that are exposed to common causes of loss.
enter into contracts of insurance in the name of the members of the syndicate concerned, subject to certain written terms Aggregate excess of loss and conditions.
A Lloyds broker can act as a coverholder.
The reinsurer indemnifies an insurance company the reinsured for an aggregate or cumulative amount of losses in excess Deferred acquisition costs DAC Costs incurred for the acquisition or the renewal of insurance of a specified aggregate amount.
policies eg brokerage, premium levy and staff related costs which are capitalised and amortised over the term A. M. Best A. M. Best is a worldwide insurance-rating and information of the contracts.
agency whose ratings are recognised as an ideal benchmark for assessing the financial strength of insurance related Earnings per share EPS basic diluted organisations, following a rigorous quantitative and qualitative Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the analysis of a companys balance sheet strength, operating consolidated profit after tax by the weighted average number performance and business profile.
of ordinary shares issued, excluding shares owned by the group.
For calculating diluted earnings per share the number of shares Binding authority and profit or loss for the year is adjusted for certain dilutive A contracted agreement between a managing agent and a potential ordinary shares such as share options granted to coverholder under which the coverholder is authorised to enter employees.
into contracts of insurance for the account of the members of the syndicate concerned, subject to specified terms Excess per risk reinsurance and conditions.
A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company against the Capacity amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect This is the maximum amount of premiums that can be accepted to each risk involved in each loss.
Capacity also refers to the amount of insurance coverage allocated to a particular policyholder or in the Expense ratio marketplace in general.
Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts and administrative expenses Capital growth assets to net earned premiums.
The calculation is performed excluding These are assets that do not pay a regular income and target the impact of foreign exchange on non-monetary items.
an increase in value over the long-term.
They will typically have a higher risk and volatility than that of the core portfolio.
Facultative reinsurance Currently these are the hedge fund assets.
A reinsurance risk that is placed by means of a separately negotiated contract as opposed to one that is ceded under Catastrophe reinsurance a reinsurance treaty.
A form of excess of loss reinsurance which, subject to a specified limit, indemnifies the reinsured company for the Gross premiums written amount of loss in excess of a specified retention with respect Amounts payable by the insured, excluding any taxes to an accumulation of losses resulting from a catastrophic or duties levied on the premium, including any brokerage event or series of events.
and commission deducted by intermediaries.
Claims Hard market Demand by an insured for indemnity under an An insurance market where prevalent prices are high, insurance contract.
with restrictive terms and conditions offered by insurers.
Claims ratio Horizontal limits Ratio, in percentage terms, of net insurance claims to net Reinsurance coverage limits for multiple events.
The calculation is performed excluding the impact of foreign exchange.
Incurred but not reported IBNR These are anticipated or likely claims that may result from an Combined ratio insured event although no claims have been reported so far.
Ratio, in percentage terms, of the sum of net insurance claims, expenses for acquisition of insurance contracts International Accounting Standards Board IASB and administrative expenses to net earned premiums.
An independent accounting body responsible for developing This is also the sum of the expense ratio and the claims IFRS.
com Beazley 167 Annual report 2013 Glossary continued International Accounting Standards IAS International Retention limits Financial Reporting Standards IFRS Limits imposed upon underwriters for retention of exposures Standards formulated by the IASB with the intention of by the group after the application of reinsurance programmes.
achieving internationally comparable financial statements.
Since 2002, the standards adopted by the IASB have been Return on equity ROE referred to as International Financial Reporting Standards Ratio, in percentage terms, calculated by dividing the IFRS.
Until existing standards are renamed, they continue consolidated profit after tax by the average daily total equity.
to be referred to as International Accounting Standards IAS.
Retrocessional reinsurance Lead underwriter The reinsurance of the reinsurance account.
It serves The underwriter of a syndicate who is responsible for setting to lay off risk.
the terms of an insurance or reinsurance contract that is subscribed by more than one syndicate and who generally Risk has primary responsibility for handling any claims arising This term may variously refer to: under such a contract.
a the possibility of some event occurring which causes injury or loss: Line b the subject matter of an insurance or reinsurance contract: or The proportion of an insurance or reinsurance risk that is c an insured peril.
accepted by an underwriter or which an underwriter is willing to accept.
Sidecar special purpose syndicate Specialty reinsurance company designed to provide additional Managing agent capacity to a specific insurance company.
It operates by A company that is permitted by Lloyds to manage the purchasing a portion or all of a group of insurance policies, underwriting of a syndicate.
These companies have become quite prominent in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina as a vehicle to Managing general agent MGA add risk-bearing capacity, and for investors to participate in the An insurance intermediary acting as an agent on behalf potential profits resulting from sharp price increases.
Short-tail Medium-tail A type of insurance where claims are usually made during A type of insurance where the claims may be made a few years the term of the policy or shortly after the policy has expired.
after the period of insurance has expired.
Property insurance is an example of short-tail business.
Net assets per share Soft market Ratio, in pence and cents, calculated by dividing the net assets An insurance market where prevalent prices are low, and terms total equity by the number of shares issued.
and conditions offered by insurers are less restrictive.
Net premiums written Surplus lines insurer Net premiums written is equal to gross premiums written less An insurer that underwrites surplus lines insurance in the USA.
Lloyds underwriters are surplus lines insurers in all jurisdictions of the USA except Kentucky and the US Virgin Islands.
Provision for outstanding claims Provision for claims that have already been incurred at the Total shareholder return TSR reporting date but have either not yet been reported or not The increase in the share price plus the value of any first and yet been fully settled.
second dividends paid and proposed during the year.
Rate Treaty reinsurance The premium expressed as a percentage of the sum insured A reinsurance contract under which the reinsurer agrees to offer or limit of indemnity.
and to accept all risks of certain size within a defined class.
Reinsurance special purpose syndicate Unearned premiums reserve A special purpose syndicate SPS created to operate as a The portion of premium income in the business year that is reinsurance sidecar to Beazleys treaty account, capitalising attributable to periods after the reporting date in the on Beazleys position in the treaty reinsurance market.
Reinsurance to close RITC A reinsurance which closes a year of account by transferring the responsibility for discharging all the liabilities that attach to that year of account and any year of account closed into that year, plus the right to buy any income due to the closing year of account, into an open year of account in return for a premium.
com Annual report 2013 If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to keep it, please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to Beazley or recycle it.
Designed and produced by: Instinctif Partners www.
com Beazley online annual report and accounts 2013 www.
com 2013 Beazley plc 2 Northwood Avenue Northwood Park Santry Demesne Santry Dublin 9 | Ireland Phone: 353 0 1 854 4700 Fax: 353 0 1 842 8481 Registered number: 102680 www.
