24 NOTES TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 Notes to the Audited Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2013 1.
The Company in the Master Fund exposes it to various types of risk, which are associated with the financial instruments and markets in which the The Company is a limited liability closed-ended investment Brevan Howard underlying funds invest.
Market risk represents company incorporated in Guernsey on 17 January 2007 for an the potential loss in value of financial instruments caused by unlimited period, with registration number 46235. movements in market factors including, but not limited to, market liquidity, investor sentiment and foreign exchange rates.
The Company was admitted to a Secondary Listing Chapter 14 on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange on 14 March The Manager 2007.
On 11 March 2008, the Company migrated from the Brevan Howard Capital Management LP the Manager is Secondary Listing to a Primary Listing pursuant to Chapter 15 the manager of the Company.
The Manager is a Jersey limited of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
As a result of partnership, the general partner of which is Brevan Howard changes to the UK Listing Regime, the Companys Primary Listing Capital Management Limited, a Jersey limited company the became a Premium Listing with effect from 6 April 2010.
The General Partner is regulated in the conduct of fund services business by the Jersey Financial As of 20 October 2008 the Company obtained a Secondary Services Commission pursuant to the Financial Services Jersey Listing on the Bermuda Stock Exchange and with effect from Law 1998 and the Orders made thereunder.
11 November 2008, the US Dollar shares of the Company were admitted to a Secondary Listing on NASDAQ Dubai.
The Manager also manages the Master Fund and in that capacity, as at the date of these Financial Statements, has delegated the The Company offers multiple classes of ordinary shares, which function of investment management of the Master Fund to Brevan differ in terms of currency of issue.
To date, ordinary shares have Howard Asset Management LLP, Brevan Howard Hong Kong been issued in US Dollar, Euro and Sterling.
Limited, Brevan Howard Israel Limited, Brevan Howard Investment Products Limited, Brevan Howard US Investment 2.
Organisation Management LP, DW Investment Management, LP and BH-DG Systematic Trading LLP.
The Company is organised as a feeder fund and seeks to achieve its investment objective by investing all of its investable assets, net 3.
Significant accounting policies of short-term working capital requirements, in the ordinary US Dollar, Euro and Sterling denominated Class B shares issued by the Master The Annual Audited Financial Statements, which give a true and Fund, and, as such, the Company is directly and materially affected fair view, are prepared in conformity with accounting principles by the performance and actions of the Master Fund.
generally accepted in the United States of America and comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The functional and As such the accounts of the Company should be read in reporting currency of the Company is US Dollars.
conjunction with the Annual Audited Financial Statements of the Master Fund which can be found on the Companys website, The following are the significant accounting policies adopted by www.
the Company: The Master Fund is an open-ended investment company with Valuation of investments limited liability formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands on The Company records its investment in the Master Fund at fair 22 January 2003.
The investment objective of the Master Fund value.
Fair value is determined as the Companys proportionate is to generate consistent long-term appreciation through active share of the Master Funds net assets.
At 31 December 2013 leveraged trading and investment on a global basis.
The Master the Companys US Dollar, Euro and Sterling capital accounts Fund employs a combination of investment strategies that focus represented 2.12%, 0.79% and 6.48% respectively of the Master primarily on economic change and monetary policy and market Funds capital at 31 December 2012: 2.48%, 0.83% and 5.84%.
The underlying philosophy is to construct strategies, At 31 December 2013 the Company is the sole investor in the often contingent in nature with superior risk return profiles, whose Master Funds ordinary US Dollar, Euro and Sterling Class B outcome will often be crystallised by an expected event occurring shares which represents 189,030 shares, 51,331 shares and within a pre-determined period of time.
New trading strategies will 326,136 shares at 31 December 2012: 228,760, 57,094 and be added as investment opportunities present themselves.
At the date of these Financial Statements, there were two other Fair value measurement feeder funds in operation in addition to the Company that invest Accounting Standards Codification ASC Topic 820 defines fair all of their assets net of working capital in the Master Fund.
value as the price that the Company would receive upon selling a security in an orderly transaction to an independent buyer in the Off-balance sheet, market and credit risks of the Master Funds principal or most advantageous market of the security.
investments and activities are discussed in the notes to the Master Funds Financial Statements.
The Companys investment NOTES TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 25 3.
Significant accounting policies continued measure.
Therefore, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the Directors own assumptions are set to reflect ASC 820 establishes a three-level hierarchy to maximise the use those that market participants would use in pricing the asset or of observable market data and minimise the use of unobservable liability at the measurement date.
The Directors use prices and inputs and to establish classification of fair value measurements inputs that are current as of the measurement date, including for disclosure purposes.
Inputs refer broadly to the assumptions periods of market dislocation.
In periods of market dislocation, that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many including assumptions about risk, for example, the risk inherent in securities.
This condition could cause a security to be reclassified a particular valuation technique used to measure fair value.
Inputs to a lower level within the fair value hierarchy.
may be observable or unobservable.
The valuation and classification of securities held by the Master Fund Observable inputs are inputs that reflect the assumptions market is discussed in the notes to the Master Funds Financial Statements participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on market which are available on the Companys website, www.
data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity.
Income and expenses Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the reporting entitys The Company records monthly its proportionate share of the own assumptions about the assumptions market participants Master Funds income, expenses and realised and unrealised would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the gains and losses.
In addition, the Company accrues its own best information available in the circumstances.
Level 1 Valuations based on unadjusted quoted prices in active Use of estimates markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with ability to access.
Valuation adjustments and block discounts are accounting principles generally accepted in the United States not applied to Level 1 securities.
Since valuations are based on of America requires management to make estimates and quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and market, valuation of these securities does not entail a significant liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the degree of judgement.
date of those Financial Statements and the reported amounts of increases and decreases in net assets from operations during the Level 2 Valuations based on quoted prices in markets that are reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Share issue expenses During 2007, share issue expenses of US$42,220,026 the Offer Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and Costs were borne by the Manager and were payable by the significant to the overall fair value measurement.
Company to the Manager should the management agreement Inputs are used in applying the various valuation techniques and terminate for certain grounds in whole or with respect to any class broadly refer to the assumptions that market participants use of share during the period ending on the seventh anniversary to make valuation decisions, including assumptions about risk.
No termination and no Inputs may include price information, volatility statistics, specific repayment occurred during this period.
and broad credit data, liquidity statistics, and other factors.
A financial instruments level within the fair value hierarchy is based Pursuant to the terms of the Management Agreement dated 13 on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value February 2009, the Company would have had to repay to the measurement.
However, the determination of what constitutes Manager a fraction of these Offer Costs for every US Dollar by observable requires significant judgement by the Companys which repurchases, redemptions or cancellations of the Companys Directors.
The Directors consider observable data to be that market shares on or before 14 March 2014 reduce the Current US Dollar data which is readily available, regularly distributed or updated, NAV of the Company below its NAV at the time of the Companys reliable and verifiable, not proprietary, and provided by independent listing, being US$1,080,740,459.
sources that are actively involved in the relevant market.
The Directors considered the likelihood of this contingent liability crystallising as remote and hence no provision has been made The categorisation of a financial instrument within the hierarchy within these Financial Statements.
is based upon the pricing transparency of the instrument and does not necessarily correspond to the Directors perceived risk The Directors confirm there are no other contingent liabilities that of that instrument.
Fair value is a market-based measure considered from the perspective of a market participant rather than an entity-specific
