NOTES TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 29 5.
Publication and calculation of net asset value On 8 March 2013 the following number of each share class of The NAV of the Company is equal to the value of its total assets shares were redeemed and cancelled pursuant to the partial less its total liabilities.
The NAV per share of each class will be capital return: calculated by dividing the NAV of the relevant class account by the number of shares of the relevant class in issue on that day.
532,208 US Dollar shares at a redemption price of $19.2557 equalling a gross redemption of $10,248,038: The Company publishes the NAV per share for each class of shares as calculated by the Administrator based in part on 120,310 Euro shares at a redemption price of 19.4042 equalling information provided by the Master Fund, monthly in arrears, as at a gross redemption of 2,334,519: each month-end.
1,022,684 Sterling shares at a redemption price of 19.8744 equalling a gross redemption of 20,325,231.
The Company also publishes an estimate of the NAV per share for each class of shares as calculated by the Administrator based in Share conversion scheme part on information provided by the Master Fund, weekly in arrears.
The Company has implemented a Share Conversion Scheme.
The scheme provides shareholders with the ability to convert 8.
Discount management programme some or all of their ordinary shares in the Company of one class into ordinary shares of another class.
Shareholders are able to The Companys discount management programme includes the convert ordinary shares on the last business day of every month.
ability to make market purchases of shares and the obligation Each conversion will be based on the NAV note 7 of the shares to propose class closure resolutions if, in any fixed discount of the class to be converted.
management period 1 January to 31 December each year, the average daily closing market price of the relevant class of shares 6.
Taxation during such period is 10% or more below the average NAV per share of the relevant class taken over the 12 monthly NAV Overview Determination Dates in that fixed discount management period, The Company is exempt from taxation in Guernsey under as described more fully in the Companys principal documents.
the provisions of the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance 1989.
In the event a class closure resolution is passed, shareholders in Uncertain tax positions the relevant class will have the following options offered to them: The Company recognises the tax benefits of uncertain tax positions i to redeem all or some of their shares at NAV per share less a only where the position is more-likely-than-not i. e. greater than proportion of the costs and expenses of the class closure vote and 50% to be sustained assuming examination by a tax authority other outstanding costs and expenses of the Company attributable based on the technical merits of the position.
In evaluating whether to the relevant class including, if relevant, any redemption fees : a tax position has met the recognition threshold, the Company must presume that the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing ii subject to certain limitations, to convert all or some of their authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information.
A tax shares into shares of another class, assuming that other class position that meets the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold does not also pass a class closure resolution: or is measured to determine the amount of benefit to recognise in the Companys Financial Statements.
Income tax and related interest iii subject to the class continuing, to remain in the class.
These and penalties would be recognised by the Company as tax expense provisions are disclosed in more detail in the Companys Articles.
in the Statement of Operations if the tax positions were deemed not to meet the more-likely-than-not threshold.
If all classes vote in favour, the Company will be wound up.
The Company analyses all open tax years for all major taxing The Annual Redemption Offer described in note 5 which jurisdictions.
Open tax years are those that are open for enables a partial return of capital is also part of the discount examination by taxing authorities, as defined by the Statute of management programme.
The Company identifies its major tax jurisdictions as the Cayman Islands and foreign jurisdictions The discount management measures will be funded by partial where the Company makes significant investments.
The Company redemptions of the Companys investment in the Master Fund.
has no examinations by tax authorities in progress.
The Directors have analysed the Companys tax positions, and During the year the Company did not make use of its ability to have concluded that no liability for unrecognised tax benefits make market purchases of its shares.
should be recorded related to uncertain tax positions.
Further, The total number of shares held in treasury at 31 December 2013 the Directors are not aware of any tax positions for which it is are as disclosed in note 5 and note 11. reasonably possible that the total amounts of unrecognised tax benefits will significantly change in the next twelve months.
