24 NOTES TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 Notes to the Audited Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2013 1.
The Company in the Master Fund exposes it to various types of risk, which are associated with the financial instruments and markets in which the The Company is a limited liability closed-ended investment Brevan Howard underlying funds invest.
Market risk represents company incorporated in Guernsey on 17 January 2007 for an the potential loss in value of financial instruments caused by unlimited period, with registration number 46235. movements in market factors including, but not limited to, market liquidity, investor sentiment and foreign exchange rates.
The Company was admitted to a Secondary Listing Chapter 14 on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange on 14 March The Manager 2007.
On 11 March 2008, the Company migrated from the Brevan Howard Capital Management LP the Manager is Secondary Listing to a Primary Listing pursuant to Chapter 15 the manager of the Company.
The Manager is a Jersey limited of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
As a result of partnership, the general partner of which is Brevan Howard changes to the UK Listing Regime, the Companys Primary Listing Capital Management Limited, a Jersey limited company the became a Premium Listing with effect from 6 April 2010.
The General Partner is regulated in the conduct of fund services business by the Jersey Financial As of 20 October 2008 the Company obtained a Secondary Services Commission pursuant to the Financial Services Jersey Listing on the Bermuda Stock Exchange and with effect from Law 1998 and the Orders made thereunder.
11 November 2008, the US Dollar shares of the Company were admitted to a Secondary Listing on NASDAQ Dubai.
The Manager also manages the Master Fund and in that capacity, as at the date of these Financial Statements, has delegated the The Company offers multiple classes of ordinary shares, which function of investment management of the Master Fund to Brevan differ in terms of currency of issue.
To date, ordinary shares have Howard Asset Management LLP, Brevan Howard Hong Kong been issued in US Dollar, Euro and Sterling.
Limited, Brevan Howard Israel Limited, Brevan Howard Investment Products Limited, Brevan Howard US Investment 2.
Organisation Management LP, DW Investment Management, LP and BH-DG Systematic Trading LLP.
The Company is organised as a feeder fund and seeks to achieve its investment objective by investing all of its investable assets, net 3.
Significant accounting policies of short-term working capital requirements, in the ordinary US Dollar, Euro and Sterling denominated Class B shares issued by the Master The Annual Audited Financial Statements, which give a true and Fund, and, as such, the Company is directly and materially affected fair view, are prepared in conformity with accounting principles by the performance and actions of the Master Fund.
generally accepted in the United States of America and comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The functional and As such the accounts of the Company should be read in reporting currency of the Company is US Dollars.
conjunction with the Annual Audited Financial Statements of the Master Fund which can be found on the Companys website, The following are the significant accounting policies adopted by www.
the Company: The Master Fund is an open-ended investment company with Valuation of investments limited liability formed under the laws of the Cayman Islands on The Company records its investment in the Master Fund at fair 22 January 2003.
The investment objective of the Master Fund value.
Fair value is determined as the Companys proportionate is to generate consistent long-term appreciation through active share of the Master Funds net assets.
At 31 December 2013 leveraged trading and investment on a global basis.
The Master the Companys US Dollar, Euro and Sterling capital accounts Fund employs a combination of investment strategies that focus represented 2.12%, 0.79% and 6.48% respectively of the Master primarily on economic change and monetary policy and market Funds capital at 31 December 2012: 2.48%, 0.83% and 5.84%.
The underlying philosophy is to construct strategies, At 31 December 2013 the Company is the sole investor in the often contingent in nature with superior risk return profiles, whose Master Funds ordinary US Dollar, Euro and Sterling Class B outcome will often be crystallised by an expected event occurring shares which represents 189,030 shares, 51,331 shares and within a pre-determined period of time.
New trading strategies will 326,136 shares at 31 December 2012: 228,760, 57,094 and be added as investment opportunities present themselves.
At the date of these Financial Statements, there were two other Fair value measurement feeder funds in operation in addition to the Company that invest Accounting Standards Codification ASC Topic 820 defines fair all of their assets net of working capital in the Master Fund.
value as the price that the Company would receive upon selling a security in an orderly transaction to an independent buyer in the Off-balance sheet, market and credit risks of the Master Funds principal or most advantageous market of the security.
investments and activities are discussed in the notes to the Master Funds Financial Statements.
