26 NOTES TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BH MACRO LIMITED, ANNUAL REPORT AND AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 Notes to the Audited Financial Statements continued For the year ended 31 December 2013 3.
Significant accounting policies continued of that months management fee and before making any deduction for any accrued performance fee as at the last valuation day in each Leverage month, payable monthly in arrears.
The investment in the Class B The Manager has discretion, subject to the prior approval of a shares of the Master Fund is not subject to management fees, but is majority of the independent Directors, to employ leverage for subject to an operational service fee payable to the Manager of 1 12 and on behalf of the Company by way of borrowings to effect of 0.5% per month of the NAV.
During the year ended 31 December share purchases or share buy-backs, to satisfy working capital 2013, US$40,519,203 31 December 2012: US$38,561,011 was requirements and to finance further investments in the Master Fund.
earned by the Manager as management fees.
At 31 December 2013, US$3,553,603 31 December 2012: US$3,470,086 of the fee The Company may borrow up to 20% of its NAV, calculated as at the remained outstanding.
Additional borrowing over 20% of NAV may only occur if approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders.
The Manager is also entitled to an annual performance fee for each share class.
The performance fee is equal to 20% of Foreign exchange the appreciation in the NAV per share of that class during that Investment securities and other assets and liabilities of the calculation period which is above the base NAV per share of that Sterling and Euro share classes are translated into US Dollars, class.
The base NAV per share is the greater of the NAV per share the Companys reporting currency, using exchange rates at the of the relevant class at the time of issue of such share and the reporting date.
Transactions reported in the Audited Statement highest NAV per share achieved as at the end of any previous of Operations are translated into US Dollar amounts at the date calculation period.
The Manager will be paid an estimated of such transactions.
The share capital and other capital reserve performance fee on the last day of the calculation period.
Within accounts are translated at the historic rate ruling at the date of 15 business days following the end of the calculation period, the transaction.
Exchange differences arising on translation are any difference between the actual performance fee and the included in the Audited Statement of Operations.
This adjustment estimated amount will be paid to or refunded by the Manager, as has no effect on the value of net assets allocated to the individual appropriate.
The investment in the Class B shares of the Master share classes.
Fund is not subject to performance fees.
Cash and Bank Balances The portion of any performance fee accrued in respect of a class Cash and bank balances comprise cash on hand and of shares that relates to the portion of shares of the relevant class demand deposits.
which are redeemed, repurchased or cancelled during the calculation period will crystallise and shall be paid to the Manager as at the Allocation of results of the Master Fund date of redemption, repurchase or cancellation.
Where a portion Net realised and unrealised gains losses of the Master Fund of any performance fee accrued in respect of a class of shares are allocated to the Companys share classes based upon the crystallises as a result of the conversion of shares of that class into percentage ownership of the equivalent Master Fund class.
shares of another class, that portion of the performance fee shall be paid to the Manager at the same time as any performance fees Treasury shares in respect of the entire relevant calculation period.
During the year Where the Company purchases its own share capital, the ended 31 December 2013, US$14,597,266 31 December 2012: consideration paid, which includes any directly attributable costs, US$18,777,034 was earned by the Manager as performance is recognised as a deduction from equity shareholders funds fees.
At 31 December 2013 US$4,259,507 31 December 2012: through the Companys reserves.
US$4,911,927 of the fee remained outstanding.
When such shares are subsequently sold or reissued to the The Master Fund may hold investments in other funds managed by market, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable the Manager.
To ensure that shareholders of the Company are not incremental transaction costs, is recognised as an increase in subject to two tiers of fees, the fees paid to the Manager as outlined equity shareholders funds through the Share capital account.
above are reduced by the Companys share of any fees paid to the Where the Company cancels treasury shares, no further Manager by the underlying Master Fund investments, managed by adjustment is required to the Share capital account of the the Manager.
Company at the time of cancellation.
Shares held in treasury are excluded from calculations when determining NAV per share as The management agreement may be terminated by either party detailed in note 7 or in the Financial Highlights in note 9. giving the other party not less than 24 months written notice.
In certain circumstances the Company will be obliged to pay 4.
Management, performance and administration fees compensation to the Manager of the aggregate management fees which would otherwise have been payable during the 24 months Management and performance fee following the date of such notice and the aggregate of any The Company has entered into a management agreement with accrued performance fee in respect of the current Calculation the Manager to manage the Companys investment portfolio.
Compensation is not payable if more than 24 months Manager receives a management fee of 1 12 of 2% or a pro rata notice of termination is given.
proportion thereof per month of the closing NAV before deduction
