Governance Corporate governance statement continued COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES All shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at Other information required to be disclosed pursuant to the theAnnual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Disclosure and Transparency Rules has been placed in the Meeting sets out the business of the Meeting and any item Directors Report on pages 22 to 26 because it is information notof an entirely routine nature is explained in the Directors which refers to events that have taken place during the course Report on pages 25 and 26.
The Notice of Annual General of the year.
Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
Separate resolutions are The following is a list of that information: proposed for substantive issues.
X Substantial share interests: In addition, regular updates on performance are available to shareholders on the website and the Investment Manager X Share capital: reviews the Companys activities at the Annual General Meeting, where the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman X Share issues: of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee and representatives of the Investment Manager are available to X Share repurchases: and answer shareholders queries.
Proxy voting gures will be announced to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting X Greenhouse gas emissions.
and will be made available on the Investment Managers website shortly after the Meeting.
In addition, information on Directors shareholdings is given on page 29 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Companys willingness to enter into discussions with institutional shareholders is also demonstrated by the FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD programmes of institutional presentations by the Investment A W LEA Manager.
The Board discusses with the Investment Manager Chairman at each Board meeting any feedback from meetings with 20 February 2014 shareholders and it also receives reports from its corporate broker.
There is a section within this report entitled Shareholder Information, on pages 65 to 67, which provides an overview ofuseful information available to shareholders.
The Companys annual and half yearly financial reports, regular factsheets and other information are also published on blackrock.
co. uk brwm which is the website maintained by theCompanys Investment Manager, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited.
The work undertaken by the auditordoes not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the website and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on thewebsite.
Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
[34] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
