Catherine Raw, who is joint Fund Manager of the Company, Directors liability insurance ison the advisory board of Women in Mining UK, an The Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability organisation which seeks to promote the employment, Insurance cover throughout the year, in respect of legal action retention and professional development of women in mining.
Directors appointment, retirement and rotation BOARDS RESPONSIBILITIES All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term The Board currently has five scheduled meetings each year ofthree years, subject to re-election and Companies Act and may have additional meetings to consider strategy and provisions, and in accordance with the Articles of Association other issues.
Between these meetings there is regular contact stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting withthe Investment Manager.
The Board is responsible to following their appointment.
Although the Articles of shareholders for the overall management of the Company.
Association state that Directors must offer themselves for Itreserves to itself decisions relating to the determination of re-election at least once every three years, in accordance with investment policy, any change in investment strategy, strategic corporate governance best practice, each Director will be gearing policy, policy on the buy back and issue of shares, subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Mr Baring whether to hold shares in treasury, and entering into any retires, having served as a Director of the Company for more material contracts.
than nine years, but will not be seeking reappointment.
Mr Cockerill is standing for election to the Board, having been The Board also sets investment parameters and the maximum appointed as a Director during the year.
The Board did not amount that can be invested in unquoted investments.
In employ the services of a search company in the appointment addition, changes relating to the Groups capital structure, of Mr Cockerill.
The existing Directors identi ed Mr Cockerill approval of circulars to shareholders and listing particulars, asa suitable candidate from their range of contacts and his relevant press releases and any signi cant change in appointment was fully debated by all of the Directors.
accounting policies or practices must also be approved by the Board.
A formal schedule of matters speci cally reserved for The Board has considered the positions of the retiring decision by the Board has been fide ned.
Directors as part of the evaluation process and believes that itwould be in the Companys best interests for the Directors The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in tobe proposed for re-election election at the forthcoming aform and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge Annual General Meeting, given their material level of itsduties.
Strategic issues and all operational matters of a contribution.
The Directors support a planned and progressive material nature are determined by the Board.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well-balanced The Directors also have access to the advice and services of throughthe appointment of new Directors with the skills and the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for experience necessary.
In the forthcoming year, the Board will ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it complies be seeking two appropriate candidates and hopes to appoint with applicable rules and regulations.
Where necessary, in the at least one female Board member with relevant expertise.
furtherance of their duties, the Directors may seek independent Directors must be able to demonstrate commitment to the professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Company, including in terms of time.
The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records which are suf cient to Directors training and induction showand explain the Companys transactions and which When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or she is disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial provided with all relevant information regarding the Company position of the Company and which enable it to ensure that and his or her duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. addition, a new Director will also spend some time with It is the Boards responsibility to present a balanced and representatives of the Investment Manager whereby he or she understandable assessment, which extends to interim and will become familiar with the various processes which the other price-sensitive public reports.
Manager considers necessary for the performance of its duties and responsibilities to the Company.
The Companys The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of policy is to encourage Directors to keep up to date and attend the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention training courses on matters which are directly relevant to their and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors also receive regular brie ngs from, amongst others, the auditor and Company Secretary regarding any proposed developments or changes in laws or regulations that could affect the Company and or the Directors.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [31]
