Annual General Meeting Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the twentieth Annual General SPECIAL BUSINESS Meeting of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc will be held at Ordinary resolutions the of ces of BlackRock Investment Management UK 12.
That the Company shall continue in being as an investment Limited, 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2N 2DL on trust.
Thursday, 8 May 2014 at 11.30 a. m. to consider and, if thought t, pass resolutions 1 to 13 as ordinary resolutions 13.
That in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors andresolutions 14 to 16 as special resolutions.
of the Company be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Resolution 2 is an advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration Companies Act 2006 the Act, to exercise all the powers of Report, excluding any content relating to the proposed future the Company to allot relevant securities in the Company remuneration policy as set out in the future policy table on asdescribed in that section up to an aggregate nominal page 28.
Resolution 3 is a new resolution subject to a binding amount of 443,218 being 5% of the aggregate nominal vote, required as a result of new remuneration disclosure amount of the issued share capital, excluding treasury regulations published by the Department for Business, shares, of the Company at the date of this notice provided Innovation and Skills BIS which are effective from 1 October that this authority shall unless previously revoked expire at 2013.
As required under the regulations, the Company is the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting to seeking approval in this resolution for its remuneration policy be held in 2015, but the Company shall be entitled to make for the year ending 31 December 2014, as set out in the future offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority policy table on page 28 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
whichwould or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot such ORDINARY BUSINESS securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and the financial power conferred hereby had not expired.
statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, togetherwith the report of the auditor thereon.
That in substitution for all existing authorities and subject 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to the passing of resolution numbered 13 above, the ended 31 December 2013, excluding the remuneration Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered policy of the Company as set out in the future policy pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act tableon page 28.
2006 the Act to allot equity securities as fide ned in section 560 of the Act and to sell equity securities held by 3.
To approve the remuneration policy of the Company, as set the Company as treasury shares as fide ned in section 724 out in the future policy table in the Directors Remuneration of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority granted by Report on page 28, for the year ending 31 December 2014. the resolution numbered 13 above, as if section 561 1 of theAct did not apply to any such allotments and sales of 4.
To declare a final dividend of 14.00p per ordinary share.
equity securities, provided that this power: 5.
To re-elect Mr I C S Barby as a Director.
a shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015, expect that 6.
To re-elect Mr C A M Buchan as a Director.
the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity 7.
To elect Mr I D Cockerill as a Director.
securities to be allotted or sold after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot 8.
To re-elect Mr D W Cheyne as a Director.
andsell equity securities in pursuance of such offer oragreements: 9.
To re-elect Mr A W Lea as a Director.
b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities 10.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company and or the sale of equity securities held in treasury for to hold of ce until the conclusion of the next Annual cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 443,218 General Meeting of the Company.
representing 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, of 11.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors the Company at the date of this notice : and remuneration.
c shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less than the net asset value per share.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [71] Annual General Meeting Notice of annual general meeting continued 16.
That the regulations contained in the printed document 15.
That in substitution for the Companys existing authority to and produced to the meeting and marked A and for the make market purchases of ordinary shares of 5p in the purposes of identi cation initialled by the Chairman of the Company Shares, the Company be and is hereby generally meeting be hereby approved and adopted as the Articles and, subject as hereinafter appears, unconditionally of Association of the Company in substitution for, and to authorised in accordance with section 701 of the Companies the exclusion of, all existing Articles of Association.
Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases of Shares within the meaning of section 693 of the Act provided that: BY ORDER OF THE BOARD a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to BLACKROCK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT UK LIMITED be purchased shall be 26,575,357, or if less, that Secretary number of Shares which is equal to 14.99% of the 20 February 2014 Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at 8 May 2014: Registered Of ce: 12 Throgmorton Avenue b the minimum price which may be paid for any such London EC2N 2DL Share shall be 5p: c the maximum price which may be paid for any such Share shall be the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Of cial List of the Shares for the five dealing days prior to the date on which the market purchase is made and ii the higher of the price quoted for the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buyback programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments No 2273 2003 : and d unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase Shares under the authority hereby conferred and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract notwithstanding such expiry.
All Shares purchased pursuant to the above authority shall be either: i held, sold, transferred or otherwise dealt with as treasury shares in accordance with the provisions of the Act: or ii cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase.
[72] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened by the above Notice is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to exercise all or any of the rights of the member to attend, speak and vote in his place.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
If a member appoints more than one proxy to attend the meeting, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the member.
To appoint a proxy you may use the form of proxy enclosed with this annual report.
To be valid, the form of proxy, together with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certi ed or of ce copy of the same, must be completed and returned to the of ce of the Companys registrar in accordance with the instructions printed thereon as soon as possible and in any event by not later than 11.30 a. m. on 6 May 2014.
Amended instructions must also be received by the Companys registrar by the deadline for receipt of proxies.
Alternatively you can vote or appoint a proxy electronically by visiting eproxyappointment.
You will be asked to enter the Control Number, the Shareholder Reference Number and PIN which are printed on the form of proxy.
The latest time for the submission of proxy votes electronically is 11.30 a. m. on 6 May 2014.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
Any person receiving a copy of this Notice as a person nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person should note that the provisions in Notes 1 to 3 above concerning the appointment of a proxy or proxies to attend the meeting in place of a member, do not apply to a Nominated Person as only shareholders have the right to appoint a proxy.
However, a Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between the Nominated Person and the member by whom he or she was nominated to be appointed, or to have someone else appointed, as proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have a right under such agreement to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights at the meeting.
Nominated Persons should also remember that their main point of contact in terms of their investment in the Company remains the member who nominated the Nominated Person to enjoy the information rights or perhaps the custodian or broker who administers the investment on their behalf.
Nominated Persons should continue to contact that member, custodian or broker and not the Company regarding any changes or queries relating to the Nominated Persons personal details and interest in the Company including any administrative matter.
The only exception to this is where the Company expressly requests a response from the Nominated Person.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001, only shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company by not later than 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the time xed for the meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at such time.
If the meeting is adjourned, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company in order to have the right to attend and vote at the adjourned meeting is 6.00 p. m. two days prior to the time of the adjournment.
Changes to the register of members after the relevant times shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members of the Company in respect of the relevant joint holding.
Holders of shares through the Savings Schemes are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting if the voting instruction form, which is enclosed with this document, is correctly completed and returned in accordance with the instructions printed thereon.
Shareholders who hold their shares electronically may submit their votes through CREST, by submitting the appropriate and authenticated CREST message so as to be received by the Companys registrar not later than 48 hours before the start of the meeting.
Instructions on how to vote through CREST can be found by accessing the following website: euroclear.
Shareholders are advised that CREST and the internet are the only methods by which completed proxies can be submitted electronically.
If you are a CREST system user including a CREST personal member you can appoint one or more proxies or give an instruction to a proxy by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted.
To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by Computershare ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp generated by the CREST system from which Computershare is able to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members should contact their CREST sponsor for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerti cated Securities Regulations 2001.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given discretion as to how the votes subject of those proxies are cast and voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, when added to the interest in the Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has a noti able obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary noti cations to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
As a result, any member holding 3 per cent.
or more of the voting rights in the Company, who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have a noti cation obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, need not make a separate noti cation to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
Any question relevant to the business of the meeting may be asked at the meeting by anyone permitted to speak at the meeting.
A shareholder may alternatively submit a question in advance by a letter addressed to the Company Secretary at the Companys registered of ce.
Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must answer any question a shareholder asks relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting, unless i answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of con dential information: ii the answer had already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that, if it is appointing more than one corporate representative, it does not do so in relation to the same shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated corporate representative.
Representatives should bring to the meeting evidence of their appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [73] Annual General Meeting Notice of annual general meeting continued 14.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are laid before the meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold of ce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
Thebusiness which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business unless: a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 27 March 2014, being the date six weeks clear before the meeting and in the case of a matter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
Further information regarding the meeting which the Company is required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website in advance of the meeting including this Notice, can be accessed at blackrock.
As at the date of this report, the Companys issued share capital comprised 177,287,242 ordinary shares of 5 pence each, excluding shares held in treasury.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote and therefore the total number of voting rights in the Company on 20February 2014 is 177,287,242.
No service contracts exist between the Company and any of the Directors, who hold of ce in accordance with letters of appointment and theArticles of Association.
[74] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
