Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued j Dividends payable Under IFRS, final dividends should not be accrued in the financial statements unless they have been approved by shareholdersbefore the financial reporting date.
Interim dividends should not be accrued in the financial statements unless theyhave been paid.
Dividends payable to equity shareholders are recognised in the Statements of Changes in Equity when they have been approved by shareholders in the case of a final dividend, or paid in the case of an interim dividend, and have become a liability of the Group.
k Foreign currency translation Transactions involving foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rate ruling on the financial reporting date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
l Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and on demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insigni cant risk of changes in value.
m Bank borrowings Bank overdrafts and loans are recorded as the proceeds received.
Finance charges, including any premia payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
n Critical accounting estimates and judgements The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
The resulting accounting estimates and assumptions will, by fide nition, seldom equal the related actual results.
Estimates and judgements are regularly evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The estimates and assumptions that have a signi cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below.
Fair value of financial instruments When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded in the Statements of Financial Position cannot be derived from active markets, their fair value is determined using a variety of valuation techniques that include the use of valuation models.
The fair value of contractual rights was assessed by IMC Group Consulting Limited, an independent valuer witha recognised and relevant professional quali cation.
The inputs to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but where this is not feasible, estimation is required in establishing fair values.
The estimates include considerations of production pro les, commodity prices, cash ows and discount rates.
Changes in assumptions about these factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments in the Statements of Financial Position and the level where the instruments are disclosed in the fair value hierarchy.
Toassess the signi cance of a particular input to the entire measurement, the external valuer performs sensitivity analysis.
Thekey assumptions used to determine the fair value of the contractual rights and sensitivity analyses are provided in note 18.
INCOME 2013 2012 000 000 Investment income: UK listed dividends 10,870 9,264 Overseas listed dividends 15,209 20,759 Overseas listed special dividends 4,130 446 Income from contractual rights 2,984 266 Fixed interest income 9,672 11,773 42,865 42,508 [48] BLACKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST P LC
