Governance Corporate governance statement continued BOARD EVALUATION COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Board has undertaken the annual evaluation of its own Nomination Committee performance and that of its Committees and individual As the Board is small and comprises only non-executive Directors including the Chairman.
The process was based on Directors it ful ls the function of the Nomination Committee questionnaires followed by discussions on the experience, which will meet when necessary to select and propose balance of skills, diversity and knowledge of the Board, as suitable candidates for appointment.
Should a vacancy occur wellas Board effectiveness, role and structure.
Discussions or the Board decide to recruit new members, the Board will between the Chairman and each Director were held and take into account the size, balance and pro le of the Board as theappraisal of the Chairman by his fellow Directors was a whole to identify any areas that need strengthening.
Due to facilitated by the Senior Independent Director.
The Board has the specialist nature of the investment mandate, and the also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors other commitments dif culty in nding new Directors with knowledge of the and are satis ed that the Chairman and other Directors are mining sector, the existing Directors will try to identify suitable capable of devoting suf cient time to the Company and individuals from their range of contacts, although other contribute to the effective running of the Company.
It was sources, including external search consultants, may also be agreed that the current composition of the Board and its used as required.
Committees re ected a suitable mix of skills and experience and that the Board, as a whole, and its Committees were Audit & Management Engagement Committee functioning effectively.
A separately chaired Audit & Management Engagement Committee has been established and is made up of all the In 2012 the Board employed the services of an independent independent Directors, including the Chairman of the Company.
rm, BoardAlpha Limited, to carry out an external evaluation of Further details are given in the Report of the Audit & the Board and its Committees, together with individual Management Engagement Committee on pages 36 to 38.
Formal performance evaluations will continue to take place annually with the appointment of an Remuneration Committee external facilitator at least every three years.
The remuneration of the Chairman and the Directors is determined by the Board.
It is not considered necessary to have DELEGATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES a separate Remuneration Committee as the Directors are not The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility: currently employed by the Investment Manager and were not soemployed within the last five years.
The Companys policy Management and administration onDirectors remuneration, together with details of the The management of the investment portfolio and the remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors administration of the Company have been delegated to the Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 29.
The Investment Manager, operating under guidelines determined by the Board, has direct ATTENDANCE RECORD responsibility for the decisions relating to the day-to-day The Board meets formally to review investment performance, running of the Company and is accountable to the Board for financial reports and other reports of a strategic nature.
Board the investment, financial and operating performance of the or Board Committee meetings are also held on an ad hoc basis Company.
The Board has final investment authority on unquoted to consider particular issues as they arise.
Custody and settlement services are provided by Bank of New York Mellon International Limited BNYM.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings held during the year under The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights review and the number of meetings attended by each Director.
attaching to the securities held in the portfolio to the Investment Manager.
Details of the Investment Managers Scheduled approach to voting at shareholder meetings are set out on Board Audit pages 22 and 23.
Number of Meetings held 5 2 Number of Meetings attended: Anthony Lea 52 Ian Barby 52 Colin Buchan 52 Oliver Baring 42 David Cheyne 52 Ian Cockerill 1 Mr Cockerill was appointed on 14 November 2013.
[32] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
