Annual General Meeting Notice of annual general meeting Notice is hereby given that the twentieth Annual General SPECIAL BUSINESS Meeting of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc will be held at Ordinary resolutions the of ces of BlackRock Investment Management UK 12.
That the Company shall continue in being as an investment Limited, 12 Throgmorton Avenue, London EC2N 2DL on trust.
Thursday, 8 May 2014 at 11.30 a. m. to consider and, if thought t, pass resolutions 1 to 13 as ordinary resolutions 13.
That in substitution for all existing authorities, the Directors andresolutions 14 to 16 as special resolutions.
of the Company be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised pursuant to section 551 of the Resolution 2 is an advisory vote on the Directors Remuneration Companies Act 2006 the Act, to exercise all the powers of Report, excluding any content relating to the proposed future the Company to allot relevant securities in the Company remuneration policy as set out in the future policy table on asdescribed in that section up to an aggregate nominal page 28.
Resolution 3 is a new resolution subject to a binding amount of 443,218 being 5% of the aggregate nominal vote, required as a result of new remuneration disclosure amount of the issued share capital, excluding treasury regulations published by the Department for Business, shares, of the Company at the date of this notice provided Innovation and Skills BIS which are effective from 1 October that this authority shall unless previously revoked expire at 2013.
As required under the regulations, the Company is the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting to seeking approval in this resolution for its remuneration policy be held in 2015, but the Company shall be entitled to make for the year ending 31 December 2014, as set out in the future offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority policy table on page 28 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
whichwould or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot such ORDINARY BUSINESS securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if the 1.
To receive the report of the Directors and the financial power conferred hereby had not expired.
statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, togetherwith the report of the auditor thereon.
That in substitution for all existing authorities and subject 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to the passing of resolution numbered 13 above, the ended 31 December 2013, excluding the remuneration Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered policy of the Company as set out in the future policy pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act tableon page 28.
2006 the Act to allot equity securities as fide ned in section 560 of the Act and to sell equity securities held by 3.
To approve the remuneration policy of the Company, as set the Company as treasury shares as fide ned in section 724 out in the future policy table in the Directors Remuneration of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority granted by Report on page 28, for the year ending 31 December 2014. the resolution numbered 13 above, as if section 561 1 of theAct did not apply to any such allotments and sales of 4.
To declare a final dividend of 14.00p per ordinary share.
equity securities, provided that this power: 5.
To re-elect Mr I C S Barby as a Director.
a shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2015, expect that 6.
To re-elect Mr C A M Buchan as a Director.
the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity 7.
To elect Mr I D Cockerill as a Director.
securities to be allotted or sold after such expiry and notwithstanding such expiry the Directors may allot 8.
To re-elect Mr D W Cheyne as a Director.
andsell equity securities in pursuance of such offer oragreements: 9.
To re-elect Mr A W Lea as a Director.
b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities 10.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company and or the sale of equity securities held in treasury for to hold of ce until the conclusion of the next Annual cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 443,218 General Meeting of the Company.
representing 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, of 11.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors the Company at the date of this notice : and remuneration.
c shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less than the net asset value per share.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [71]
