Additional information Shareholder information FINANCIAL CALENDAR DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT SCHEME DRIP The timing of the announcement and publication of the Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to Companys results may normally be expected in the months purchase further shares in the Company.
Dividend reinvestment shown below: forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC through their secure website investorcentre.
Shareholders who have already opted tohave February their dividends reinvested do not need to reapply.
The last date Annual results and final dividend for year announced.
for registering for this service for the forthcoming dividend is 23 April 2014.
March Annual report and financial statements published.
SHARE PRICE The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted April May daily in The Financial Times and the Times under Investment Annual General Meeting.
Companies and in The Daily Telegraph under Investment Final dividend paid.
The share price is also available on the BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited BlackRock website August atblackrock.
Half yearly gures announced and half yearly financial reportpublished.
ISIN SEDOL NUMBERS The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the September Companys shares are: Interim dividend paid.
Ordinary shares DIVIDEND 2013 ISIN GB0005774855 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended SEDOL 0577485 31December 2013 is 14.00p per share.
L Bloomberg Code BRWM LN Ex-dividend date shares transferred without the dividend 5 March 2014 Record date last date for registering SHARE DEALING transfers to receive the dividend 7 March 2014 Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company Last date for registering DRIP instructions 23 April 2014 orsell all or part of their existing holding may do so through Dividend payment date 15 May 2014 astockbroker.
Most banks also offer this service.
For existing shareholders the Companys registrar, PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS Computershare Investor Services PLC, has both internet Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named andtelephone share dealing services.
To access the internet shareholder at their registered address.
Dividends may also be sharedealing log on to computershare.
The paid direct into a shareholders bank account via BACSTEL-IP telephone share dealing service is available on 0870 703 0084.
Bankers Automated Clearing Service Telecom Internet To use these services, you will need your shareholder reference Protocol.
This may be arranged by contacting the Companys number, which is detailed on your share certi cate.
registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, through their secure website investorcentre.
co. uk, or by telephone on Internet dealing The fee for this service is 1% of the value of 0870707 1187, or by completing the Mandate Instructions each sale or purchase of shares subject to a minimum of 30. section on the reverse of your dividend counterfoil and sending Stamp duty of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
this to the Companys registrar, Computershare.
Tax vouchers will be sent to shareholders at their registered address, unless other Telephone dealing The fee for this service will be 1% of the instructions have been given, to arrive on the payment date.
value of the transaction plus 35.
Stamp duty of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [65]
