Additional information Shareholder information FINANCIAL CALENDAR DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT SCHEME DRIP The timing of the announcement and publication of the Shareholders may request that their dividends be used to Companys results may normally be expected in the months purchase further shares in the Company.
Dividend reinvestment shown below: forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC through their secure website investorcentre.
Shareholders who have already opted tohave February their dividends reinvested do not need to reapply.
The last date Annual results and final dividend for year announced.
for registering for this service for the forthcoming dividend is 23 April 2014.
March Annual report and financial statements published.
SHARE PRICE The Companys mid-market ordinary share price is quoted April May daily in The Financial Times and the Times under Investment Annual General Meeting.
Companies and in The Daily Telegraph under Investment Final dividend paid.
The share price is also available on the BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited BlackRock website August atblackrock.
Half yearly gures announced and half yearly financial reportpublished.
ISIN SEDOL NUMBERS The ISIN SEDOL numbers and mnemonic codes for the September Companys shares are: Interim dividend paid.
Ordinary shares DIVIDEND 2013 ISIN GB0005774855 The proposed final dividend in respect of the year ended SEDOL 0577485 31December 2013 is 14.00p per share.
L Bloomberg Code BRWM LN Ex-dividend date shares transferred without the dividend 5 March 2014 Record date last date for registering SHARE DEALING transfers to receive the dividend 7 March 2014 Investors wishing to purchase more shares in the Company Last date for registering DRIP instructions 23 April 2014 orsell all or part of their existing holding may do so through Dividend payment date 15 May 2014 astockbroker.
Most banks also offer this service.
For existing shareholders the Companys registrar, PAYMENT OF DIVIDENDS Computershare Investor Services PLC, has both internet Cash dividends will be sent by cheque to the first-named andtelephone share dealing services.
To access the internet shareholder at their registered address.
Dividends may also be sharedealing log on to computershare.
The paid direct into a shareholders bank account via BACSTEL-IP telephone share dealing service is available on 0870 703 0084.
Bankers Automated Clearing Service Telecom Internet To use these services, you will need your shareholder reference Protocol.
This may be arranged by contacting the Companys number, which is detailed on your share certi cate.
registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, through their secure website investorcentre.
co. uk, or by telephone on Internet dealing The fee for this service is 1% of the value of 0870707 1187, or by completing the Mandate Instructions each sale or purchase of shares subject to a minimum of 30. section on the reverse of your dividend counterfoil and sending Stamp duty of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
this to the Companys registrar, Computershare.
Tax vouchers will be sent to shareholders at their registered address, unless other Telephone dealing The fee for this service will be 1% of the instructions have been given, to arrive on the payment date.
value of the transaction plus 35.
Stamp duty of 0.5% is payable on purchases.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [65] Additional information Shareholder information continued CREST NOMINEE CODE The Companys shares may be held in CREST, an electronic Where shares are held in a nominee company name, the system for uncerti cated securities trading.
Company undertakes: Private investors can continue to retain their share certi cates X to provide the nominee company with multiple copies of and remain outside the CREST system.
Private investors are shareholder communications, so long as an indication of able to buy and sell their holdings in the same way as they quantities has been provided in advance: didprior to the introduction of CREST, although there may be differences in dealing charges.
X to allow investors holding shares through a nominee company to attend general meetings, provided the correct authority from the nominee company is available: and ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS We encourage you to play your part in reducing our impact X that investors in the BlackRock Investment Trusts onthe environment and elect to be noti ed by email when SavingsPlan and ISA are automatically sent shareholder yourshareholder communications become available online.
communications, including details of general meetings, This means you will receive timely, cost-effective and greener together with a Form of Direction to facilitate voting and online annual reports, half yearly financial reports and other toseek authority to attend.
Nominee companies are encouraged to provide the necessary Shareholders who opt for this service will receive an e-mail authority to underlying shareholders to attend the Companys from Computershare with a link to the relevant section of the general meetings.
BlackRock website where the documents can be viewed and downloaded.
Please submit your email address by visiting investorcentre.
You will require your shareholder PUBLICATION OF NET ASSET VALUE PORTFOLIO reference number which you will nd on your share certi cate ANALYSIS or tax voucher.
The net asset value NAV per share of the Company is calculated daily, with details of the Companys investments You will continue to receive a printed copy of these reports and performance being published monthly.
ifyou have elected to do so.
Alternatively, if you have not submitted your email address nor have elected to receive The daily NAV per share and monthly information are released printed reports, we will write and let you know where you can through the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News view these reports online.
Serviceand are available on the BlackRock website at blackrock.
co. uk brwm and through the Reuters News ELECTRONIC PROXY VOTING Serviceunder the code BLRKINDEX, on page 8800 on Topic 3 Shareholders are able to submit their proxy votes electronically ICV terminals and under BLRK on Bloomberg monthly via Computershares internet site at eproxyappointment.
using their shareholder reference number, control number and a unique identi cation PIN which will be provided with voting ONLINE ACCESS instructions and the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Other details about the Company are also available on the BlackRock website at blackrock.
The financial CREST members who wish to appoint one or more proxies statements and other literature are published on the website.
orgive an instruction through the CREST electronic proxy Visitors to the website need to be aware that legislation in the appointment service may do so by using the procedures United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination described in the CREST manual.
More details are set out in of the financial statements may differ from legislation in thenotes on the Form of Proxy and the Notice of Annual theirjurisdiction.
Shareholders can also manage their shareholding online by DURATION OF THE COMPANY using Investor Centre, Computershares secure website at Shareholders are given an opportunity at each Annual General investorcentre.
Meeting to vote on an ordinary resolution to continue the life ofthe Company for a further twelve months.
To access Computershares website you will need your shareholder reference number SRN which can be found on paper or electronic communications you have previously received from Computershare.
Listed below are the most frequently used features of the website.
[66] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC X Holding enquiry view balances, values, history, Changes of name or address must be noti ed in writing either paymentsand reinvestments.
through Computershares website, or to the registrar at: X Payments enquiry view your dividends and other Computershare Investor Services PLC payment types.
The Pavilions Bridgwater Road X Address change change your registered address.
Bristol BS99 6ZZ X Bank details update choose to receive your dividend GENERAL ENQUIRIES payment directly into your bank account instead of Enquiries about the Company should be directed to: bycheque.
The Secretary X e-Comms sign-up choose to receive email noti cation BlackRock World Mining Trust plc when your shareholder communications become available 12 Throgmorton Avenue instead of paper communications.
London EC2N 2DL Telephone: 020 7743 3000 X Outstanding payments reissue payments using the online replacement service.
Enquiries about the Savings Plan or ISA should be directed to: X Downloadable forms including dividend mandates, Freepost RLTZ-KHUH-KZSB stocktransfer, dividend reinvestment and change of BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited address forms.
PO Box 9036 Chelmsford CM99 2XD SAVINGS PLAN Telephone: 0800 44 55 22 The Company participates in the BlackRock Investment TrustSavings Plan, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like information on the Savings Plan should call BlackRock free on0800 44 55 22.
STOCKS AND SHARES INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS ISA ISAs are a tax-ef cient method of investment and the Companys shares are eligible investments within the BlackRock Investment Trust stocks and shares Individual Savings Account.
Investors currently have an annual ISA allowance of 11,520 which will increase to 11,880 for the 2014 2015 tax year.
Details are available from BlackRock bycalling free on 0800 44 55 22.
SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES The Companys registrar is Computershare Investor ServicesPLC.
Certain details relating to your holding can be checked through the Computershare Investor Centre website.
As a security check, speci c information needs to beinputaccurately to gain access to an individuals account.
Thisincludes your shareholder reference number, available from your share certi cate, tax voucher or other electronic communications you have previously received from Computershare.
The address of the Computershare website is investorcentre.
Alternatively, please contact theregistrar on 0870 707 1187.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [67]
