ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION inproportion to their holdings.
Resolution 14 empowers the Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association Directors to allot new shares for cash or to sell shares which must be made by special resolution.
are held by the Company in treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 443,218 which is equivalent to 8,864,362 ordinary ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING shares of 5p each and 5% of the Companys issued ordinary The following information to be discussed at the forthcoming share capital, excluding treasury shares, as at the date of Annual General Meeting is important and requires your theNotice of Annual General Meeting.
Unless renewed at a immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action general meeting prior to such time, this authority will expire at you should take, you should seek advice from your stockbroker, the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser to be held in 2015. authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
Resolution 15 Authority to buy back shares If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary shares in The resolution to be proposed will seek to renew the authority the Company, you should pass this document, together with granted to Directors enabling the Company to purchase its any other accompanying documents but not the personalised own shares.
The Directors will only consider repurchasing Form of Proxy or Form of Direction as soon as possible to the shares in the market if they believe it to be in shareholders purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other interests and as a means of correcting any imbalance between agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for supply and demand for the Companys shares.
onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
The Directors are seeking authority to purchase up to Following publication by the Department of Business, 26,575,357 ordinary shares being 14.99% of the issued share Innovation and Skills BIS of final remuneration disclosure capital, excluding treasury shares, as at the date of this report regulations effective from 1 October 2013, the Companys or, if less, 14.99% of the ordinary shares in issue at 8 May remuneration policy will be subject to a triennial binding 2014.
This authority, unless renewed at an earlier general shareholder vote.
The rest of the Directors Remuneration meeting, will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual Report will continue to be subject to an annual advisory vote.
These resolutions are included as items of ordinary business asResolution 2 and Resolution 3 in the Notice of Annual Resolution 16 Changes to the Articles of Association General Meeting on page 71 of the Annual Report.
Regulations implementing the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD Regulations came into force Resolutions relating to the following items of special business in the UK on 22 July 2013.
The Board is proposing to make will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
amendments to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles in response to the AIFMD Regulations.
Resolution 12 Continuation of the Company as an investment trust The principal changes proposed to be introduced in the The ordinary resolution to be proposed will seek shareholders Articles, and their effect, are set out below.
authority that the Company shall continue in being as an investment trust.
i Net asset value The Articles will now provide that the net asset value Resolution 13 Authority to allot shares ofthe Company shall be calculated at least annually The Directors may only allot shares for cash if authorised to do andbe disclosed to shareholders from time to time in so by shareholders in general meeting.
This resolution seeks such manner as may be determined by the Board.
The authority for the Directors to allot shares for cash up to an amendment will have no bearing on current practice and aggregate nominal amount of 443,218 which is equivalent simply articulates the minimum requirements of the to8,864,362 ordinary shares of 5p each and represents 5% AIFMD Regulations.
ofthe current issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, as at the date of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
This ii Annual Report and Financial Statements authority will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual The Articles will now provide that the Companys Annual General Meeting, unless renewed prior to that date at an Report and Financial Statements may be prepared either earlier general meeting.
in accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles of the UK or such other international accounting Resolution 14 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights standards as may be permitted under the law of the UK.
By law, Directors require speci c authority from shareholders The amendment will have no bearing on current practice before allotting new shares or selling shares out of treasury and simply articulates the minimum requirements of the for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders AIFMD Regulations.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [25]
