Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc We have audited the financial statements of BlackRock World OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Mining Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2013 which In our opinion: comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group and Company Statements of Changes X the financial statements give a true and fair view of the in Equity, Group and Company Statements of Financial stateof the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at Position, Group and Company Cash Flow Statements and 31 December 2013 and of the Groups loss for the year then the related notes 1 to 21.
The financial reporting framework ended: that has beenapplied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as X the Group financial statements have been properly adoptedby the European Union and, as regards the Company prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the financial statements, as applied in accordance withthe European Union: provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
X the Companys financial statements have been properly This report is made solely to the Companys members, asa prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies European Union and as applied in accordance with the Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no X the financial statements have been prepared in other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS MISSTATEMENT AND AUDITOR We identi ed the following risks of material misstatement that As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors had the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy and the Responsibilities set out on page 35, the Directors are allocation of resources in the audit: responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
X incorrect valuation of the investment portfolio, including Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the incorrect application of exchange rate s and assessment of financial statements in accordance with applicable law and stock liquidity: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices X incorrect calculation of management fees or that they were Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
not calculated and recorded in accordance with the investment management agreement: SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL X misappropriation of the Companys assets and unsecured STATEMENTS ownership of investments: and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give X incomplete or inaccurate income recognition through reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free failure to recognise proper income entitlements.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of whether the accounting OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys We determined planning materiality for the Company to be circumstances andhave been consistently applied and 8.9million, which is 1% of equity.
This provided a basis adequately disclosed, the reasonableness of signi cant for determining the nature, timing and extent of our risk accounting estimates madeby the Directors, and the overall assessment procedures, identifying and assessing the risk presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing all the financial andnonfinancial information in the Annual and extent of further audit procedures.
Report to identifymaterial inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially assessment of the Groups overall control environment, inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course ourjudgment was that overall performance materiality i. e. our of performing theaudit.
If we become aware of any apparent tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the for the Company should be 75% of planning materiality, implications for our report.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [39]
