Financial statements Notes to the financial statements 1.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY The principal activity of the Company is that of an investment trust company within the meaning of section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The principal activity of the subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company Limited, is investment dealing.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company are set out below.
a Basis of preparation The Group and Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
The Groups financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
All values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 except where otherwise indicated.
New standards, amendments to standards and interpretations effective for annual periods beginning after 1 January 2013 that have been adopted by the Group in preparing these financial statements are: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective 1 January 2013 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
It does not change when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted.
IFRS 13 fide fines fair value as an exit price.
The standard does not have any impact on the classi cation and or valuation of the Group and Companys financial instruments.
IFRS 13 also requires additional disclosures, and these are provided in Note 18 on pages 55 to 63.
IFRS 7 amendment, Financial Instruments Disclosures effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013 amendments enhancing disclosures about offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities.
The disclosures required by this standard are given in Note 18 on pages 55 to 63.
A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning after 1January 2014, and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements.
None of these are expected to have a signi cant effect on the measurement of the amounts recognised in the financial statements of the Company: however, additional disclosures will be required.
However, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments issued in November 2009 will change the classi cation of financial assets, but is not expected to have an impact on the measurement basis of the financial assets since the majority of the Companys financial assets are measured at fair value through pro t or loss.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments deals with classi cation and measurement of financial assets and its requirements represent a signi cant change from the existing requirements in IAS 39 in respect of financial assets.
The standard contains two primary measurement categories for financial assets: at amortised cost and fair value.
A financial asset would be measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash ows, and the assets contractual terms give rise on speci ed dates to cash ows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding.
All other financial assets would be measured at fair value.
The standard eliminates the existing IAS 39 categories of held to maturity, available for sale and loans and receivables.
The standard is not yet approved by the EU.
IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements effective 1 January 2014 establishes a single control model that applies to all entities including special purpose entities.
The changes introduced by IFRS 10 will require management to exercise signi cant judgement to determine which entities are controlled, and therefore are required to be consolidated by a parent.
The standard is not likely to have any impact on the Group.
IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements effective 1 January 2014 removes the option to account for jointly controlled entities JCEs using proportionate consolidation.
This is not applicable to the Group as it holds no interests in joint arrangements.
IFRS 12 Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities effective 1 January 2014 now requires additional disclosures that relate to an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [45] Financial statements Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued This standard is not expected to apply to the Group as it does not invest in structured entities.
Insofar as the Statement of Recommended Practice SORP for investment trusts and venture capital trusts issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC, revised in January 2009 is compatible with IFRS, the financial statements have beenprepared in accordance with the guidance set out in the SORP.
b Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, BlackRockWorld Mining Investment Company Limited, which are registered and operate in England and Wales.
c Presentation of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income In order to better re ect the activities of an investment trust company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and a capital nature has been presented alongside the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
d Segmental reporting The Directors are of the opinion that the Group is engaged in a single segment of business being investment business.
e Income Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised on an ex-dividend basis.
Where no ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before the year end are treated as revenue for the year.
Provision is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
Interest income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
Income from contractual rights is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable where the Investment Manager can reliably estimate the amount, pursuant to the terms of the agreement.
Income from contractual rights received comprise of a return of income and a return of capital based on the underlying cost of the contract and, accordingly, the return of income element is taken to the revenue account and the return of capital element is taken to the capital account.
These amounts are disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income within income from investments and gains losses on investments held at fair value through pro t or loss, respectively.
The useful life of the contractual rights will be determined by reference to the contractual arrangements, the planned mine life on commencement of mining and the underlying cost of the contractual rights will be revalued on a systematic basis using the units of production method over the life of the contractual rights which is estimated using available estimated proved and probable reserves speci cally associated with the mine.
The Investment Manager relies on public disclosures for information onproven and probable reserves from the operators of the mine.
Amortisation rates are adjusted on a prospective basis for all changes to estimates of the life of contractual rights and iron ore reserves.
These are disclosed in the Consolidated Statement ofComprehensive Income within gains losses on investments held at fair value through pro t or loss.
Option premium income is recognised as revenue evenly over the life of the option contract and included in the revenue column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income unless the option has been written for the maintenance and enhancement of the Companys investment portfolio and represents an incidental part of a larger capital transaction, in which case any premia arising are allocated to the capital column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
When an option is closed out or exercised the gain or loss is accounted for as capital.
f Expenses All expenses, including finance costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses have been charged wholly to the revenue column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, except as follows: X expenses which are incidental to the acquisition of an investment are included within the cost of the investment.
Details of transaction costs on the purchases and sales of investments are disclosed in Note 10 on page 52.
X effective from 1 January 2012, the investment management fee and finance costs have been allocated 75% to the capital column and 25% to the revenue column of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in line with the Boards expected long term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income, respectively, from the investment portfolio: X expenses are treated as capital where a connection with the maintenance or enhancement of the value of the investments can be demonstrated.
[46] BLACKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST P LC g Taxation Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all temporary differences that have originated but not reversed at the financial reporting date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the financial reporting date.
This is subject to deferred tax assets only being recognised if it is considered more likely than not that there will be suitable pro ts from which the future reversal of the temporary differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the rates applicable to the legal jurisdictions in which they arise.
h Investments held at fair value through pro t or loss The Companys investments, including contractual rights, are classi ed as held at fair value through pro t or loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with its investment strategy.
All investments, including contractual rights, are designated upon initial recognition as held at fair value through pro t or loss.
Purchases of investments are recognised on a trade date basis.
The sales of assets are recognised at the trade date of thedisposal.
Proceeds are measured at fair value which will be regarded as the proceeds of sale less any transaction costs.
Contractual rights are recognised on the completion date, where a purchase of the rights is under a contract, and is initially measured at fair value excluding transaction costs.
The fair value of the financial investments is based on their quoted bid price at the financial reporting date, without deduction forthe estimated selling costs.
For all financial instruments not traded in an active market, the fair value is determined by using valuation techniques deemed by the Board to be appropriate in the circumstances.
Valuation techniques include the market approach i. e. using recent arms length market transactions adjusted as necessary and reference to the current market value ofanother instrument that is substantially the same and the income approach i. e. discounted cash ow analysis and option pricing models making as much use of available and supportable market data as possible.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of investments and on disposal of investments are recognised directly in theConsolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The gains and losses from changes in fair value of contractual rights are taken to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and arise as a result of the revaluation of the underlying cost ofthe contractual rights, changes in commodity prices and changes in estimates of proven and probable reserves speci cally associated with the mine.
In order to improve the disclosure of how companies measure the fair value of their financial investments, the disclosure requirements in IFRS 13 have been extended to include a fair value hierarchy.
The fair value hierarchy consists of the following three levels: Level 1 quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 valued by reference to valuation techniques using market observable inputs such as quoted prices: Level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
Under IFRS, the investment in the subsidiary is fair valued which is deemed to be the net asset value of the subsidiary.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through pro t or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income as Gains or losses on investments held at fair value through pro t or loss.
Also included within this heading are transaction costs in relation to the purchase or sale of investments.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statements of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
i Other receivables and other payables Other receivables and other payables do not carry any interest and are short term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2013 [47]
