"D Diis rect claor im se a r nd Service Providers This document is directed only at: i persons having professional experience in matters relating to investments who fall within the definition of ""investment professionals"" in Article 19 5 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Financial Promotion Order 2005: or ii high net worth bodies corporate, unincorporated associations and partnerships and trustees of high value trusts as described in Article 49 2 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Financial Promotion Order 2005 and persons who receive this document who do not fall within i or ii above should not rely on or act upon this document."
This document does not in any jurisdiction constitute investment advice or an invitation to invest in the shares or any other securities of the Company or any other entity body corporate or otherwise.
The Company has used reasonable care to ensure that the information included in this document is accurate at the date of its issue, but does not undertake to update or revise the information, including any information relating to AllBlue Limited and its underlying funds the Funds provided by BlueCrest Capital Management UK LLP or any member of the BlueCrest group of companies as applicable BlueCrest, or guarantee the accuracy of such information.
To the extent permitted by law neither the Company, the Funds, BlueCrest nor their directors or officers shall be liable for any loss or damage that anyone may suffer in reliance on such information.
The information in this document may be changed by the Company at any time.
Past performance cannot be relied on as a guide to future performance.
The Company's investment strategy is speculative and entails substantial risks.
The value of an investment may go down as well as up and some or all of the total amount invested may be lost.
This document may not, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, be taken, transmitted or distributed into the United States of America, its territories or possessions or made available to any national, resident or citiz en of the United States of America or any other jurisdiction where applicable laws prohibit its release, distribution or publication.
Any failure to comply with these restrictions may be a violation of the law in relevant jurisdictions.
