BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2013 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable Guernsey law.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of unquoted and quoted financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The Financial Statements are presented in Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The following Standards or Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any impact on the amounts reported in these Financial Statements.
IAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements amendments resulting from Annual Improvements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The amendments to IAS1 introduce a grouping of items presented in the Other Comprehensive Income.
Items that will be reclassified recycled to profit or loss at a future point in time have to be presented separately from items that will not be reclassified.
The amendments affect presentation only and have no impact on the Companys financial or performance.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendments related to the offsetting of assets and liabilities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS.
IFRS 13 defines fair value as an exit price.
As a result of the guidance in IFRS 13, the Group reassessed its policies for measuring fair values, in particular, its valuation inputs such as non-performance risk for fair value measurement of liabilities.
Application of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted the fair value measurements of the Group.
Additional disclosures where required, are provided in the individual notes relating to the assets and liabilities whose fair values were determined.
IFRS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation annual improvements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The following Standards or Interpretations that are expected to affect the Company that have been issued but not yet adopted by the Company are shown below.
Other standards or interpretations issued by the IASB or IFRIC are not expected to affect the Company.
The Board has not yet assessed the impact of the standards below on the Company and will do so prior to the earliest period of adoption.
