BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2013 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES a Basis of preparation The Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable Guernsey law.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of unquoted and quoted financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss.
The Financial Statements are presented in Sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Changes in accounting policy and disclosures The following Standards or Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any impact on the amounts reported in these Financial Statements.
IAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements amendments resulting from Annual Improvements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The amendments to IAS1 introduce a grouping of items presented in the Other Comprehensive Income.
Items that will be reclassified recycled to profit or loss at a future point in time have to be presented separately from items that will not be reclassified.
The amendments affect presentation only and have no impact on the Companys financial or performance.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendments related to the offsetting of assets and liabilities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 provides guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS.
IFRS 13 defines fair value as an exit price.
As a result of the guidance in IFRS 13, the Group reassessed its policies for measuring fair values, in particular, its valuation inputs such as non-performance risk for fair value measurement of liabilities.
Application of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted the fair value measurements of the Group.
Additional disclosures where required, are provided in the individual notes relating to the assets and liabilities whose fair values were determined.
IFRS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation annual improvements effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013.
The following Standards or Interpretations that are expected to affect the Company that have been issued but not yet adopted by the Company are shown below.
Other standards or interpretations issued by the IASB or IFRIC are not expected to affect the Company.
The Board has not yet assessed the impact of the standards below on the Company and will do so prior to the earliest period of adoption.
74 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED a Basis of preparation continued IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures amendments to transition disclosures, including additional hedge accounting disclosures of IFRS 9 effective date on or after 1 January 2015.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Disclosures reflects the first phase of the IASBs work on the replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as defined in IAS 39.
The standard has no mandatory effective date but IASB have tentatively proposed to apply for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018.
In subsequent phases, the IASB is addressing hedge accounting and impairment of financial assets.
The adoption of the first phase will have an effect on the classification and measurement of the Groups financial assets, but will not have an impact on classification and measurements of the Groups financial liabilities.
The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when the final standard including all phases is issued.
IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation amendments relating to the offsetting of assets and liabilities effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, amendments for novations of derivatives effective for annual periods 1 January 2014.
No formal analysis has been completed on the impact of the adoption of any of the above standards or interpretations on the Financial Statements in the period of initial application.
b Going concern As described in Note 10, should the average 12 month discount at which the shares of any class trade to their NAV exceed 5% of NAV per share, the Company is obliged to offer a continuation vote to class shareholders.
As detailed on page 24 the continuation vote mechanism was triggered for the Sterling Shares and US Dollar Shares by reference to the 31 December 2012 NAV and for the Euro Shares by reference to the 31 January 2013 NAV.
Continuation resolutions were passed for Sterling and Euro Share classes of Ordinary Shares at separate Class meetings held on 17 April 2013 and accordingly no further continuation vote can be triggered for each of the Sterling and Euro share class until 17 April 2014.
The continuation resolution was not passed for the US Dollar Share class and therefore the Directors formulated redemption proposals to be put to the shareholders of that class only offering to redeem their shares at the relevant NAV less the costs of all such redemptions.
75 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2013 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED b Going concern continued Acceptances of the redemption offer for US Dollar Shares were received for 75,413,387 US Dollar Shares representing approximately 60.84 per cent of the US Dollar Shares in issue at 1 July 2013.
The redemption proceeds of approximately $120.8 million were paid to redeeming shareholders on 8 August 2013.
The Company has adequate financial resources and as a consequence, the Directors believe the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial information.
c Taxation The Company has been granted exemption under the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance, 1989 from Guernsey Income Tax, and is charged an annual fee of 600. d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses relating to the Company are allocated across the three share classes proportionally based on their individual NAVs.
e Interest income Interest income is accounted for on an accruals basis.
f Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are defined as call deposits and short term deposits readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, together with bank overdrafts.
For the purposes of the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and deposits at bank, together with bank overdrafts.
g Investments All investments are designated upon initial recognition as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Investments are initially recognised on the date of purchase on trade date basis at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given, excluding transaction costs associated with the investment, with unrealised gains and losses on investments arising from change in fair value from prior years recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Realised gains or losses are determined on the disposal of investments.
These are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
In order to assess the fair value of non-current investments the NAV and recent trades of the underlying investment in AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged are taken into consideration.
76 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2013 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED g Investments continued The Company redeemed a portion of its investment in each share class of AllBlue on a prorata basis on 1 April 2012 in order to generate a cash reserve the Cash Reserve for the purposes of managing day-to-day cash flows, for meeting expenses of the Company and for funding any repurchases of the Companys shares.
During the year, part of the Cash Reserve has been placed in funds of the Institutional Cash Series plc ICS an umbrella investment company with variable capital and having segregated liability between its funds namely the Institutional Sterling Government Liquidity Fund Core Acc, the Institutional Euro Government Liquidity Fund Core Acc, and the Institutional US Treasury Fund Core Acc together the ICS Funds.
These assets are classified as current as they are expected to be used for funding the purchase of treasury shares.
The fair value of the shares in the ICS Funds are derived from quoted prices, and valued using bid prices.
The Companys NAV is based on valuations of unquoted investments.
In calculating the NAV and the NAV per share of the Company, the Administrator relies on the NAVs of the shares in AllBlue Limited supplied by the administrator of AllBlue Limited and AllBlue Leveraged.
Those NAVs are based on the NAV of the various investments held by AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged.
h Foreign currency translation The financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Operating expenses in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
Investments in Euro and US Dollar share classes are initially recorded in their respective currencies and translated into the Companys functional currency at the reporting date.
All differences are taken to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
i Segment information For management purposes, the Company is organised into one business unit, and hence no separate segment information has been presented.
The Company determines that this operating segment is the investment in three share classes of a fund of hedge funds incorporated in the Cayman Islands.
j Shares Sterling, Euro and US Dollar Ordinary shares have been classified as liabilities in accordance with IAS 32 because of the provisions contained in the Companys Articles of Association as described in Note 10.
The Directors have been advised that this treatment does not result in the Shares being treated as a liability for the purpose of applying the solvency test set out in Section 527 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended.
