Audit Committee Report INTERNAL AUDIT The Company has no employees and operates no systems of its own, relying instead on the employees and systems of its external service providers.
The Board has therefore taken the decision that it would be of insufficient benefit for the Company to engage an internal auditor.
EXTERNAL AUDIT The effectiveness of the external audit process is dependent on appropriate audit risk identification at the start of the audit cycle.
We receive from EY a detailed audit plan, identifying their assessment of these key risks.
For the 2013 Financial Year the primary risks identified were the existence and ownership together with the valuation of the Companys assets.
Using our collective skills we assess the effectiveness of the audit process in addressing these matters through the reporting we receive from EY at the year-end.
In addition we also seek feedback from the Administrator on the effectiveness of the audit process.
For the 2013 Financial Year, we were satisfied that there had been appropriate focus and challenge on the primary areas of audit risk and assessed the quality of the audit process to be good.
We hold private meetings with the external auditor at our meetings to provide additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Auditor without the Administrator being present.
Matters typically discussed include the Auditors assessment of business risks and management activity thereon, the transparency and openness of interactions with the Administrator, confirmation that there has been no restriction in scope placed on them by the Administrator on the independence of their audit and how they have exercised professional scepticism.
APPOINTMENT AND INDEPENDENCE We consider the reappointment of the external auditor, including the rotation of the audit partner, each year and also assess their independence on an ongoing basis.
54 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Audit Committee Report The recent revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council included a recommendation for FTSE 350 companies to put their audit out to tender at least every ten years.
The EU and Competition Commission have also issued draft proposals in respect of audit tendering and mandatory rotation of auditors that are yet to be finalised.
The Committee will continue to monitor developments around these proposals and will formulate a policy in respect to audit tendering and rotation at the appropriate time.
The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the audit every five years.
The current lead audit partner has been in place for three years.
EY has been the Companys external auditor since its stock market listing in 2006.
EY also acts the external auditor of BlueCrest.
In addition EY in the USA acts as the external auditor of the BlueCrest funds into which the Company invests.
Having considered the balance of the benefits of a single external auditor of all such entities versus the risks of not having a separation of these roles, we have provided the Board with its recommendation to the shareholders on the reappointment of EY as external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2014.
Accordingly a resolution proposing the reappointment of EY as our auditor will be put to the shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
However, we keep this matter under review.
There are no contractual obligations restricting our choice of external auditor.
We continue to consider the audit tendering provisions outlined in the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, of which we are very supportive.
During the Financial Year EY charged the Company 25,500 2012: 21,350: 2011: 20,000 for audit and audit related services.
We approved the fees for audit services for 2013 after a review of the level and nature of work to be performed and after being satisfied by EY that the fees were appropriate for the scope of the work required.
