Financial instruments and risk management The group issues or holds financial instruments mainly to finance its operations: to finance corporate transactions such as dividends, share buybacks and acquisitions: for the temporary investment of short-term funds: and to manage the currency and interest rate risks arising from its operations and from its sources of finance.
In addition, various financial instruments, for example trade receivables and trade payables, arise directly from the groups operations.
Financial risk management The groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk including interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk : credit risk and liquidity risk.
Treasury operations The group has a centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to manage liquidity, funding, investments and counterparty credit risk arising from transactions with financial institutions.
This treasury operation also manages the groups market exposures, including risks from volatility in currency and interest rates.
The treasury operation acts as a central bank to group entities providing central deposit taking, funding and foreign exchange management services.
Funding and deposit taking is usually provided in the functional currency of the relevant entity.
The treasury operation is not a profit centre and its objective is to manage financial risk at optimum cost.
Treasury policy Treasury policy is set by the BT Group plc Board.
Group treasury activities are subject to a set of controls appropriate for the magnitude of the borrowing, investments and group-wide exposures.
The BT Group plc Board has delegated its authority to operate these polices to a series of panels that are responsible for the management of key treasury risks and operations.
Appointment to and removal from the key panels requires approval from two of the Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director of the BT Group plc Board.
The management of exposures arising from trading related financial instruments, primarily trade receivables and trade payables, is through a series of policies and procedures set at a group and line of business level.
Line of business management apply and review these policies and procedures to assess and manage the financial risks arising from these financial instruments.
There has been no change in the nature of the groups risk prole between 31 March 2013 and the date of approval of these financial statements.
Interest rate risk management Management policy The group has interest-bearing financial assets and liabilities which may expose the group to either cash ow or fair value volatility.
The groups policy, as set by the BT Group plc Board, is to ensure that at least 70% of BT Group plcs consolidated net debt is at xed rates.
Shortterm interest rate management is delegated to the treasury operation while long-term interest rate management decisions require further approval from the BT Group plc Group Finance Director, Director Treasury, Tax and Risk Management or the Treasurer BT Group who have been delegated such authority from the BT Group plc Board.
Hedging strategy In order to manage the groups interest rate mix prole, the group has entered into cross-currency and interest rate swap agreements with commercial banks and other institutions to vary the amounts and periods for which interest rates on borrowings are xed.
The duration of the swap agreements matches the duration of the debt instruments.
The majority of the groups long-term borrowings have been, and are, subject to xed Sterling interest rates after applying the impact of these hedging instruments.
Sensitivities Interest rates The group is exposed to volatility in the income statement and shareholders equity arising from changes in interest rates.
To demonstrate this volatility, management have concluded that a 1% increase in interest rates and parallel shift in yield curves across Sterling, US Dollar and Euro currencies is a reasonable benchmark for performing a sensitivity analysis.
After the impact of hedging, the groups main exposure to interest rate volatility in the income statement arises from fair value movements on derivatives not in hedging relationships, oating rate borrowings, investments and cash equivalents which are largely inuenced by Sterling interest rates.
With all other factors remaining constant at 31 March 2013, a 1% increase in Sterling interest rates would decrease the groups annual net finance expense by approximately 193m 2011 12: 194m.
78 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
