Critical accounting estimates and key judgements continued Current and deferred income tax The carrying value of assets comprising the costs of the initial set up, The actual tax we pay on our profits is determined according to transition or transformation phase of long-term networked IT complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws and services contracts are disclosed in note 15. regulations is unclear, we use estimates in determining the liability for the tax to be paid on our past profits which we recognise in our Pension obligations financial statements.
We believe the estimates, assumptions and BT has a commitment, mainly through the BTPS, to pay pension judgements are reasonable but this can involve complex issues which benets to approximately 318,000 people over a period of more than may take a number of years to resolve.
The final determination of 80 years.
The cost of these benets and the present value of our prior year tax liabilities could be different from the estimates pension liabilities depend on such factors as the life expectancy of the reected in the financial statements and may result in the recognition members, the salary progression of our current employees, the return of an additional tax expense or tax credit in the income statement.
that the pension fund assets will generate in the time before they are Deferred tax assets and liabilities require management judgement used to fund the pension payments, price ination and the discount in determining the amounts to be recognised.
In particular, rate used to calculate the net present value of the future pension judgement is used when assessing the extent to which deferred tax payments.
We use estimates for all of these factors in determining the assets should be recognised, taking into account the expected timing pension costs and liabilities incorporated in our financial statements.
and level of future taxable income.
The assumptions reect historical experience and our judgement The value of the groups income tax assets and liabilities is regarding future expectations.
disclosed on the balance sheet on page 39.
The carrying value of the The value of the net pension obligation at 31 March 2013, the key groups deferred tax assets and liabilities is disclosed in note 10. financial assumptions used to measure the obligation, the sensitivity of the IAS 19 pension liability at 31 March 2013, and of the income Goodwill statement charge in 2013 14 to changes in these assumptions are The recoverable amount of cash generating units CGUs has been disclosed in note 18. determined based on value in use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates, including managements expectations of Useful lives for property, plant and equipment and software future revenue growth, operating costs, profit margins and operating The plant and equipment in our networks is long lived with cables and cash ows for each CGU.
switching equipment operating for over 10 years and underground The carrying value of goodwill and the key assumptions used in ducts being used for decades.
We also develop software for use in IT performing the annual impairment assessment are disclosed in systems and platforms that supports the products and services note 12. provided to our customers and that is also used within the group.
The annual depreciation and amortisation charge is sensitive to the Providing for doubtful debts estimated service lives allocated to each type of asset.
Asset lives are BT provides services to consumer and business customers, mainly on assessed annually and changed when necessary to reect current credit terms.
We know that certain debts due to us will not be paid thinking on the remaining lives in light of technological change, through the default of a small number of our customers.
Estimates, network investment plans including the groups bre rollout based on our historical experience, are used in determining the level programme, prospective economic utilisation and physical condition of debts that we believe will not be collected.
These estimates include of the assets concerned.
Changes to the service lives of assets such factors as the current state of the economy and particular implemented from 1 April 2012 had no significant impact in industry issues.
aggregate on the results for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The value of the provision for doubtful debts is disclosed in The carrying values of software, property, plant and equipment are note 15. disclosed in notes 12 and 13.
The useful lives applied to the principal categories of assets are disclosed on page 45.
3. significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of Provisions and contingent liabilities these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These As disclosed in note 17, the groups provisions principally relate to policies have been consistently applied to all years presented, unless obligations arising from property rationalisation programmes, otherwise stated.
restructuring programmes, claims, litigation and regulatory risks.
Under our property rationalisation programmes we have identied a Revenue number of surplus properties.
Although efforts are being made to Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or sub-let this space, this is not always possible.
Estimates have been receivable for communication services and equipment sales, net of made of the cost of vacant possession and of any shortfall arising discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable from any sub-lease income being lower than the lease costs.
Any that the economic benets associated with a transaction will ow to such shortfall is recognised as a provision.
the group and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be In respect of claims, litigation and regulatory risks, the group measured reliably.
Where the group acts as an agent in a transaction, provides for anticipated costs where an outow of resources is it recognises revenue net of directly attributable costs.
considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
The prices at which certain services are charged are Services regulated and may be subject to retrospective adjustment by Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services is regulators.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely value of the recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the regulatory risk.
For all risks, the ultimate liability may vary from the rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised amounts provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome evenly over the period to which it relates.
Revenue from calls is of any settlement.
recognised at the time the call is made over the groups network.
Management exercise judgement in measuring the exposures to Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges for access contingent liabilities see note 28 through assessing the likelihood to broadband and other internet access or voice services, are that a potential claim or liability will arise and in quantifying the recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue from the possible range of financial outcomes.
interconnection of voice and data trafc between other Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 43 3. significant accounting policies continued The customer-facing lines of business are the groups reportable telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit segments and generate substantially all the groups revenue.
The across the groups network.
remaining operations of the group are aggregated and included within the Other category to reconcile to the consolidated results of Equipment sales the group.
The Other category includes BT TSO and the groups Revenue from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the centralised functions including procurement and supply chain, eet significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the and property management.
buyer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and Provisions for the settlement of significant legal, commercial and regulatory disputes, which are negotiated at a group level, are accepted by the customer.
initially recorded in the Other segment.
On resolution of the dispute, Long-term contractual arrangements the full impact is recognised in the relevant line of business results Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements including xed and offset in the group results through the utilisation of the provision price contracts to design and build software solutions, is recognised previously charged to the Other segment.
Settlements which are particularly significant or cover more than one financial year may fall based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of within the denition of specic items as detailed on page 42. completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to the nature of the contract such as the proportion of costs incurred The costs incurred by BT TSO are recharged to the customer-facing relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other measures of lines of business to reect the services it provides to them.
completion such as the achievement of contract milestones and Depreciation and amortisation incurred by BT TSO in relation to the networks and systems it manages and operates on behalf of the customer acceptance.
In the case of time and materials contracts, customer-facing lines of business is allocated to the lines of business revenue is recognised as the service is rendered.
Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual based on their respective utilisation.
Capital expenditure incurred by arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element of costs BT TSO for specic projects undertaken on behalf of the customerincurred in the initial contract set up, transition or transformation facing lines of business is allocated based on the value of the directly attributable expenditure incurred.
Where projects are not directly phase, which is deferred and recorded within non-current assets.
attributable to a particular line of business, capital expenditure is These costs are then recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the remaining contract term, unless the pattern of allocated between them based on the proportion of estimated future service delivery indicates a different prole is appropriate.
BT TSO and the groups centralised functions are costs are directly attributable to specic contracts, relate to future not reportable segments as they did not meet the quantitative thresholds as set out in IFRS 8 Operating Segments for any of the activity, will generate future economic benets and are assessed for years presented.
The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of total Performance of each reportable segment is measured based on expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable adjusted EBITDA, dened as EBITDA before specic items, as included measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the in the internal financial reports reviewed by the BT Group plc Operating Committee.
EBITDA is dened as the operating profit or financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable loss before depreciation, amortisation, net finance expense and certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is considered to be a useful measure of extent that such revenue is expected to be recoverable, or costs are the operating performance of the lines of business because it accrued to bring the margin to nil.
Recognised revenue and profits approximates the underlying operating cash ow by eliminating depreciation and amortisation and also provides a meaningful are subject to revisions during the contract if the assumptions analysis of trading performance by excluding specic items, which regarding the overall contract outcome are changed.
The cumulative impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which are disclosed separately by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual Specic items are detailed in note 9 and are not allocated to the and estimated costs to completion exceed the estimated revenue for reportable segments as this reects how they are reported to the BT Group plc Operating Committee.
Finance expense and income are a contract, the full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
not allocated to the reportable segments, as the central treasury function manages this activity, together with the overall net debt Multiple element arrangements Where a contractual arrangement consists of two or more separate position of the group.
elements that have value to a customer on a standalone basis, Retirement benets revenue is recognised for each element as if it were an individual The groups net obligation in respect of dened benefit pension plans contract.
The total contract consideration is allocated between the is the present value of the dened benefit obligation less the fair separate elements on the basis of relative fair value and the value of the plan assets.
The calculation of the obligation is appropriate revenue recognition criteria are applied to each element performed by a qualied actuary using the projected unit credit as described above.
method and key actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date.
Operating and reportable segments The income statement expense is allocated between an operating charge and net finance income or expense.
The operating charge The groups operating segments are reported based on financial reects the increase in the dened benefit obligation resulting from information provided to the BT Group plc Operating Committee, as the pension benefit earned by active employees in the current period.
detailed on page 2, which is the key management committee and represents the chief operating decision maker.
The net finance income reects the expected return on the assets of The groups organisational structure reects the different customer the plan offset by the unwinding of the discount applied to the liabilities of the plan, based on conditions prevailing at the start of groups to which it provides communications products and services via the year.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period its customer-facing lines of business: BT Global Services, BT Retail, BT in which they occur and are presented in the group statement of Wholesale and Openreach.
The customer-facing lines of business are supported by an internal service unit: BT Technology, Service & comprehensive income.
Operations BT TSO, which was created through the combination of The group also operates dened contribution pension plans and the income statement expense represents the contributions payable BT Innovate & Design and BT Operate during 2012 13. for the year.
44 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3. significant accounting policies continued Telecommunications licences Property, plant and equipment Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunications Property, plant and equipment are included at historical cost, net of activities to be operated for dened periods, are initially recorded at accumulated depreciation, government grants and any impairment cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use to charges.
On disposal of property, plant and equipment, the difference the end of the licence period.
between the sale proceeds and the net book value at the date of disposal is recognised in other operating income in the income Customer relationships statement.
Intangible assets acquired through business combinations are Included within the cost for network infrastructure and equipment recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Assumptions are used are direct and indirect labour costs, materials and directly attributable in estimating the fair values of acquired intangible assets and include overheads.
Depreciation is provided on property, plant and managements estimates of revenue and profits to be generated by equipment on a straight line basis from the time the asset is available the acquired businesses.
for use, to write off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into account any expected residual value.
Freehold land is not Estimated useful economic lives depreciated.
The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal The lives assigned to principal categories of assets are as follows: categories of intangible assets are as follows: Land and buildings Computer software 2 to 10 years Freehold buildings 40 years Telecommunications licences 2 to 20 years Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of Customer relationships and brands 5 to 15 years lease or 40 years, whichever is the shorter Programme rights Network infrastructure and other equipment Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from the point at which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
Rights for Transmission equipment: Duct 40 years which the licence period has not started are disclosed as contractual Cable 3 to 25 years commitments in note 28.
Payments made to receive commissioned or Fibre 5 to 20 years acquired programming in advance of the legal right to broadcast the Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years programmes are classied as prepayments.
Programme rights are initially recognised at cost and are amortised Payphones and other network equipment 2 to 20 years from the point at which they are available for use, on a straight line Other assets basis over the programming period, or the remaining licence term, as Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years appropriate.
The amortisation charge is recorded within operating Computers and ofce equipment 3 to 6 years costs in the income statement.
Programmes produced internally are recognised within current Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of assets at production cost, which includes labour costs and an the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and appropriate portion of relevant overheads, and charged to the useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are income statement over the period of the related broadcast.
Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with the groups policy for impairment of non-financial assets set out on Intangible assets page 46.
Related cash outows are classied as operating cash ows Identiable intangible assets are recognised when the group controls in the cash ow statement.
the asset, it is probable that future economic benets attributable to the asset will ow to the group and the cost of the asset can be Provisions reliably measured.
All intangible assets, other than goodwill, are Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or amortised over their useful economic life.
The method of constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an amortisation reects the pattern in which the assets are expected to outow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the be consumed.
If the pattern cannot be determined reliably, the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by straight line method is used.
discounting the expected future cash ows at a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and Goodwill the risks specic to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at fair value of the groups share of the identiable net assets including amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease intangible assets of the acquired business.
provisions are measured at the lower of the cost to full or to exit the For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a contract.
business combination is allocated to each of the CGUs that is expected to benefit from the business combination.
Each CGU to Current and deferred income tax which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries purposes.
where the companys subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures operate and generate taxable income.
The group periodically Computer software evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in Computer software comprises computer software licences purchased which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the from third parties, and also the cost of internally developed software.
group establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of the Computer software licences purchased from third parties are initially amounts expected to be paid to tax authorities.
Costs directly associated with the production of Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of internally developed software, where it is probable that the software temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups will generate future economic benets, are recognised as intangible assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred income tax assets assets.
and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 45 3. significant accounting policies continued Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Impairment offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the losses are recognised in the income statement, normally as a specic deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied item.
If a cash generating unit is impaired, the impairment losses are by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or allocated rstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro rata basis different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the against intangible and other assets.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is Other operating income recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be Other operating income is income generated by the group that arises regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which the from activities outside the provision of communication services and deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Items reported as other operating income include income from repayment works, proceeds from scrap and cable Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to recovery, income generated by our eet operations, profits and losses apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, on the disposal of businesses and property, plant and equipment and based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
income generated from the exploitation of our intellectual property.
Basis of consolidation Government grants The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements Our policy for government grants changed from 1 April 2012 as explained on page 42.
Government grants are recognised when there of British Telecommunications plc the company and its is reasonable assurance that the conditions associated with the grants subsidiaries, and they incorporate its share of the results of associates have been complied with and the grants will be received.
and joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known Grants for the purchase or production of property, plant and as the parent.
Control is the power to govern the financial and equipment are deducted from the cost of the related assets and reduce future depreciation expense accordingly.
Grants for the operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benets from its reimbursement of operating expenditure are deducted from the activities, generally accompanied by a shareholding of more than one related category of costs in the income statement.
Government half of the voting rights.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries, which consist of the amounts of those grants received relating to future expenditure are recognised as interests at the date of the original business combination and nonpayments received in advance within Other payables.
controlling share of changes in equity since the date of the Foreign currencies combination, are not material to the groups financial statements.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional See note 1 for more details.
currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
Where settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets and necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been aligned with liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end exchange the policies adopted by the group.
All intra-group transactions rates are recognised in the income statement in the line which most including any gains or losses, balances, income or expenses are appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
eliminated in full on consolidation.
On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing on the including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any nontransaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated controlling interests.
The profit or loss on disposal is normally at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising recognised as a specic item.
on retranslation are recognised directly in a separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
Business combinations In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and The consideration is measured at fair value, which is the aggregate of liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative the fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and the equity instruments issued in exchange for control of the translation difference associated with the undertaking in the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
The translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on disposal recognised in the income statement.
acquirees identiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Research and development Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the measured at cost, representing the excess of the aggregate of the period in which it is incurred.
Development expenditure, including consideration, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the the cost of internally developed software, is recognised in the income acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the fair values of the that economic benets will ow to the group from the asset being identiable assets and liabilities at the date of acquisition.
developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated, in which case it is Impairment of non-financial assets Intangible assets with nite useful lives and property, plant and capitalised as an intangible asset on the balance sheet.
Capitalisation equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in ceases when the asset being developed is ready for use.
Research and development costs include direct and indirect labour, materials and circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the directly attributable overheads.
carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the Leases higher of the net present value of the expected future cash ows The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair value is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires an less cost to sell.
46 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 3. significant accounting policies continued Loans and receivables assessment of whether the fullment of the arrangement is Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or dependent on the use of a specic asset or assets and whether the determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
than those for which the group may not recover substantially all of its Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as are classied as available-for-sale.
Loans and receivables are initially finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the recognised at fair value plus transaction costs and subsequently commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value of carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The changes in carrying value recognised in the income statement.
obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in Available-for-sale financial assets respect of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are Non-derivative financial assets classied as available-for-sale are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest either specically designated in this category or not classied in any method.
Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held of the other categories.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially by the lessor are classied as operating leases.
Rentals are charged to recognised at fair value plus direct transaction costs and then remeasured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with unrealised the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of the gains and losses except for changes in exchange rates for monetary lease.
items, interest, dividends and impairment losses, which are Share-based payments recognised in the income statement recognised in equity until the The ultimate parent of BT plc, BT Group plc, operates a number of financial asset is derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or equity settled share-based payment arrangements, under which the loss previously recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, group receives services from employees in consideration for equity in the line that most appropriately reects the nature of the item or instruments share options and shares of BT Group plc.
share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant Trade and other receivables excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions but including any market-based performance criteria and the impact of Financial assets within trade and other receivables are initially non-vesting conditions for example the requirement for employees recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the to save.
The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised as effective interest method, less provisions made for doubtful an expense on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on receivables.
Provisions are made specically where there is evidence the groups estimate of the options or shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
of a risk of non payment, taking into account ageing, previous losses Fair value is measured using either the Binomial options pricing experienced and general economic conditions.
model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is most appropriate to Cash and cash equivalents the share-based payment arrangement.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken convertible to cash and are subject to insignicant risk of changes in into account to determine the fair value of equity instruments value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
In the case that an award or option does not vest as a result purpose of the consolidated cash ow statement, cash and cash of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control equivalents are as dened above net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
of either counterparty, this is accounted for as a cancellation.
Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other borrowings, in Cancellations are treated as accelerated vesting and all remaining current liabilities on the balance sheet.
future charges are immediately recognised in the income statement.
As the requirement to save under an employee sharesave Impairment of financial assets arrangement is a non-vesting condition, employee cancellations are The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial treated as an accelerated vesting.
asset or group of financial assets are impaired.
Where there is Awards that lapse or are forfeited result in a credit to the income objective evidence that an impairment loss has arisen on assets statement reversing the previously recognised charges in the year in carried at amortised cost, the carrying amount is reduced with the which they lapse or are forfeited.
loss being recognised in the income statement.
The impairment loss is measured as the difference between that assets carrying amount and Termination benets the present value of estimated future cash ows discounted at the Termination benets leaver costs are payable when employment is financial assets original effective interest rate.
terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benets.
The Financial liabilities group recognises termination benets when it is demonstrably Trade and other payables committed to the affected employees leaving the group.
Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced Financial instruments Financial assets amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss effective interest method.
A financial asset is classied in this category if it is either acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short-term held for Loans and other borrowings trading or if so designated by management.
Financial assets at fair Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of value through profit and loss are initially recognised and amounts received net of transaction costs.
Loans and other subsequently measured at fair value, with changes in fair value borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the recognised in the income statement.
Any direct transaction costs are effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge recognised immediately in the income statement.
relationship, are re-valued to reect the fair value movements on the Notes to the consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 47 3. significant accounting policies continued pension plans and how those obligations will affect its financial hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The position, financial performance and cash ow.
Compensating resulting amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation of adjustments in other comprehensive income will leave equity the hedge, are recognised in the income statement.
The amendments which will impact the consolidated financial Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting statements include: The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce The recognition of plan administration costs in the income exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The group does statement not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for financial trading The replacement of the expected return on pension plan assets purposes.
However, derivatives that do not qualify for hedge and interest expense on pension plan liabilities with a single net accounting are classied as held for trading and are initially interest component calculated on the net dened benefit liability recognised and subsequently measured at fair value.
The gain or loss or asset using the discount rate used to determine the dened on re-measurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the benefit obligation income statement in net finance expense.
Derivative financial Additional disclosures to explain the characteristics of an entitys instruments are classied as current assets or current liabilities where dened benefit plans, the amounts recognised in the financial they have a maturity period within 12 months.
Where derivative statements and the risks arising from dened benefit plans.
financial instruments have a maturity period greater than 12 months, The amendments will not impact the value of the retirement they are classied within either non-current assets or non-current benefit obligation on the face of the group balance sheet.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any Expected impact of adoption of IAS 19 Revised 2011 resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
To qualify IAS 19 Revised 2011 requires retrospective adoption and therefore for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be prepared at prior periods will be restated.
The impact on the income statement inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly effective for 2012 13 and 2011 12, had the amendments applied, would both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested for have been to: effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which the increase operating costs by around 40m 2011 12: 30m hedge remains in operation.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when reduce net finance income on pensions, reported as a specic the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or no longer item, by around 150m 2011 12: 295m resulting in a restated qualies for hedge accounting or the group chooses to end the hedge net finance expense of approximately 120m 2011 12: 100m.
The group designates certain derivatives as either cash The service cost that will be recognised in the income statement in ow hedges or fair value hedges.
2013 14 is estimated to be around 50m higher than the restated cost for 2012 13 mainly due to the change in discount rate and Cash ow hedges ination assumptions.
The net pension interest expense within When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of specic items is expected to be around 240m for 2013 14, an the variability in cash ows of a recognised asset or liability, or a increase of around 120m over the 2012 13 restated amount due to highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the higher net deficit more than offsetting the lower discount rate.
the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity, in The sensitivity of the net pension interest expense for 2013 14, the cash ow reserve.
For cash ow hedges of recognised assets or under this revised basis, to an increase of 0.25 percentage points in liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from the discount rate assumption would be a reduction of 65m.
As equity and recognised in the same line in the income statement in the shown in note 18, an increase of 0.25 percentage points in the RPI same period or periods that the hedged transaction affects the ination assumption would increase the retirement benefit income statement.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash ow hedge obligation at 31 March 2013 by 1.5bn.
If this were the case, the of a recognised asset or liability is recognised immediately in the net pension interest expense for 2013 14 would be 65m higher.
same income statement line as the hedged item.
Where ineffectiveness arises on highly probable transactions, it is recognised in the income statement line which most appropriately reects the nature of the item or transaction.
Fair value hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or unrecognised rm commitment, the change in fair value of the derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in the income statement at each reporting date, together with any changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Accounting standards, interpretations and amendments not yet effective IAS 19 Employee Benets IAS 19 Revised 2011 is effective for the accounting period beginning on 1 April 2013.
The amendments set out in this revised accounting standard are intended to provide a clearer indication of an entitys obligations resulting from the provision of dened benefit 48 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
