SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS a b The table below gives brief details of the groups principal operating subsidiaries at 31 March 2013.
All subsidiaries are unlisted, unless otherwise stated.
No subsidiaries are excluded from the group consolidation.
The group did not have any significant associates or joint ventures at 31 March 2013.
Group interest Country c d Subsidiary undertakings Activity in allotted capital of operations d, e BT Americas Inc Communications related services, systems integration and 100% common International products provider e BT Australasia Pty Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Australia 100% preference e BT Business Direct Limited Technology equipment retailer 100% ordinary UK b, e BT Communications do Brasil Limitada Communications related services, technology consulting 100% common Brazil and products provider e BT Communications Ireland Limited Telecommunications service provider 100% ordinary Republic of Ireland e BT Conferencing Inc Audio, video and web collaboration service provider 100% common US e BT Conferencing Video Inc Audio, video and web collaboration service provider 100% common US e BT Convergent Solutions Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK e BT Engage IT Limited IT solutions provider 100% ordinary UK BT ESPANA, Compania fide Servicios Globales fide Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Spain e Telecommunicaciones, SA BT Fleet Limited Fleet management company 100% ordinary UK e BT France SA Communications related services, systems integration and 100% ordinary France products provider e, f BT Germany GmbH & Co. oHG Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Germany e BT Global Communications India Private Limited Communications related services 100% ordinary India e BT Global Services Limited International telecommunications network systems provider 100% ordinary UK BT Holdings Limited Investment holding company 100% ordinary UK e BT Hong Kong Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Hong Kong 100% preference e BT Italia SpA Communications related services and products provider 98.6% ordinary Italy b, e BT LatAm Brasil Ltda Data communication services 100% common Brazil e BT Limited International telecommunications network systems provider 100% ordinary International BT Managed Services Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK BT Nederland NV Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Netherlands BT Payment Services Limited Payment services provider 100% ordinary UK e BT Services SA Technology consulting and engineering services 100% ordinary France e BT Singapore Pte Ltd Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Singapore e BT Switzerland AG Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary Switzerland d, e Communications Global Network Services Limited Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary International e Communications Networking Services UK Communications related services and products provider 100% ordinary UK dabs.
com plc Technology equipment retailer 100% ordinary UK e Infonet Services Corporation Global managed network service provider 100% common US Plusnet plc Broadband service provider 100% ordinary UK e Radianz Americas Inc Global managed network service provider 100% common US 100% preference a The group comprises a large number of entities and it is not practical to include all of them in this list.
The list therefore includes only those entities that have a significant impact on the revenue, profit or assets of the group.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates will be annexed to the companys next annual return filed with the Registrar of Companies.
b The principal operating subsidiaries listed above have a reporting date of 31 March, except for entities domiciled in Brazil, due to regulatory requirements.
c The proportion of voting rights held corresponds to the aggregate interest percentage held by the holding company and subsidiary undertakings.
d All overseas undertakings are incorporated in their country of operations.
Subsidiary undertakings operating internationally are all incorporated in England and Wales, except BT Americas Inc and Communications Global Network Services Limited which are incorporated in the US and Bermuda, respectively.
e Held through intermediate holding company.
f BT Germany GmbH & Co. oHG is making use of disclosure exemptions under the German Commercial Code paragraph 264.
Note: British Telecommunications plc is the General Partner of BT Investment Capital LP.
BT Investment Capital LP is dealt with in the consolidated financial statements of British Telecommunications plc, which are prepared and audited in accordance with International Accounting Standards.
Advantage has been taken of the exemption conferred by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 SI 2008 569 in respect of appending a copy of the accounts of BT Investment Capital LP to these financial statements.
Subsidiary undertakings British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 107
