Derivatives continued Other derivatives At 31 March 2013, the company held certain foreign currency forward and interest rate swap contracts which were not in hedging relationships in accordance with FRS 26.
These derivatives are disclosed in note 3.
Foreign currency forward contracts were economically hedging operational purchases and sales.
The interest rate swap contracts became ineffective on first adoption of FRS 26.
The volatility arising from these swaps is recognised through the profit and loss account but is limited due to a natural offset in their valuation movements.
Fair value of financial instruments The following table discloses the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the companys financial instruments which are not carried at an amount which approximates to its fair value on the balance sheet at 31 March 2013 and 2012.
The carrying amounts are included in the company balance sheet under the indicated headings.
The fair values of listed investments were estimated based on quoted market prices for those investments.
The carrying value of oating rate investments approximated to their fair values due to the frequent re-set of interest rates to market rates.
The carrying amount of the short-term deposits and investments approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the investments held.
The carrying amount of trade receivables and payables approximated to their fair values due to the short maturity of the amounts receivable and payable.
The fair value of the companys bonds, finance leases and other long-term borrowings has been estimated on the basis of quoted market prices for the same or similar issues with the same maturities where they existed, and on calculations of the present value of future cash ows using the appropriate discount rates in effect at the balance sheet dates, where market prices of similar issues did not exist.
The carrying value of oating rate borrowings approximated to their fair values due to the frequent re-set of interest rates to market rates.
The fair value of the companys outstanding swaps and foreign exchange contracts were the estimated amounts, calculated using discounted cash ow models that the company would receive or pay in order to terminate such contracts in an arms length transaction taking into account market rates of interest and foreign exchange of the balance sheet date.
Carrying amount Fair value a a 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Non-derivatives: Financial liabilities Listed bonds 8,576 8,936 10,535 10,594 Finance leases 107 203 107 203 Other loans and borrowings 39,870 46,047 39,870 46,047 a Restated.
Audit Services Information relating to fees for audit services paid or payable to the companys auditor,  LLP, is included in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements of BT plc.
106 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Notes to the financial statements
