NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Basis of Preparation as well as qualitative factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
This is consistent with the way that financial performance Preparation of the financial statements is measured by management and reported to the Board and These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in Operating Committee of BT Group plc and assists in providing a accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS meaningful analysis of the trading results of the group.
The directors Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and believe that presentation of the groups results in this way is relevant International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related to an understanding of the groups financial performance as specic interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated items are identied by virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the Furthermore, the group considers a columnar presentation to be International Accounting Standards Board.
The consolidated financial appropriate, as it improves the clarity of the presentation and is statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
consistent with the way that financial performance is measured by The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the management and reported to the Board and Operating Committee of historical cost basis, except for certain financial and equity BT Group plc.
Specic items may not be comparable to similarly titled instruments that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated measures used by other companies.
financial statements are presented in Sterling, the functional currency Specic items include disposals of businesses and investments, of British Telecommunications plc, the parent company.
regulatory settlements, historic insurance or litigation claims, business restructuring programmes, asset impairment charges, Changes in presentation of the financial statements property rationalisation programmes, net interest on pensions and Following the Financial Reporting Councils objective of cutting the settlement of multiple tax years in a single payment.
In 2008 09 clutter from financial statements, separate non-controlling interests BT Global Services contract and financial review charges were disclosures have been removed from the groups consolidated disclosed as a specic item by virtue of their size and nature.
The financial statements and the related notes because they are impact of subsequent changes to the contract and financial review immaterial: non-controlling interests represent profit for the year of charges from revisions in estimates and assumptions are included 2m 2011 12: 1m, 2010 11: 2m : total comprehensive income within trading results before specic items, and are separately for the year of 3m 2011 12: 2m, 2010 11: 2m : and total equity disclosed if considered significant.
Specic items for the current and prior years are disclosed in As the change is immaterial to the groups consolidated financial note 9. statements, a restated opening balance sheet has not been provided.
This is because the change does not have any impact on the profit for 2.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements the year, other comprehensive income loss for the year or total The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS equity.
requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of Changes in accounting policies and standards adopted applying the groups accounting policies.
We continually evaluate our The groups policy for the recognition of government grants was estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available changed from 1 April 2012.
Under the new policy, which is set out on information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in page 46, assets and operating costs are recognised net of financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and Before 1 April 2012 government grants were initially recognised associated disclosures with the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee.
Subsequent to initial recognition grants that The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are compensated the group for costs incurred were recognised in the described below.
income statement within other operating income.
Grants that compensated the group for the cost of an asset were recognised in Long-term customer contracts the income statement within other operating income on a straight Long-term customer contracts can extend over a number of financial line basis over the useful life of the related asset.
During the contractual period recognition of costs and profits This net presentation is considered a more appropriate policy than may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each the previous gross presentation as it better presents the incremental contract.
If, at any time, these estimates indicate that any contract costs to the business.
The new policy has been applied prospectively will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the contract is and comparative financial information has not been restated as the recognised immediately.
If these estimates indicate that any contract impact of grants on prior period financial information is immaterial.
will be less profitable than previously forecast, contract assets may The amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements have to be written down to the extent they are no longer considered issued by the IASB in June 2011 have been adopted early in these to be fully recoverable.
The group performs ongoing profitability consolidated financial statements.
The main change resulting from reviews of its contracts in order to determine whether the latest the application of these amendments is to group items together estimates are appropriate.
Key factors reviewed include: within other comprehensive income based on whether they are Transaction volumes or other inputs affecting future revenues potentially reclassiable to the income statement in future periods.
which can vary depending on customer requirements, plans, Tax associated with each group those that might be reclassied and market position and other factors such as general economic those that will not be reclassied is shown separately.
conditions Other than as set out above, no new or amended accounting Our ability to achieve key contract milestones connected with the standards and interpretations were adopted in 2012 13. transition, development, transformation and deployment phases for customer contracts Presentation of specic items The status of commercial relations with customers and the The groups income statement and segmental analysis separately implication for future revenue and cost projections identify trading results before specic items.
Specic items are those Our estimates of future staff and third party costs and the degree that in managements judgement need to be disclosed separately by to which cost savings and efficiencies are deliverable.
virtue of their size, nature or incidence.
In determining whether an event or transaction is specic, management considers quantitative 42 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 Notes to the consolidated financial statements
