REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED KINGDOM OPINION Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: Independent Auditors Report to the members of Britishgive a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at Telecommunications plc the company 31 March 2013 and of its profit and cash flows for the year We have audited the consolidated financial statements of British then ended: Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2013 whichhave been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of by the European Union: and comprehensive income, the Group balance sheet, the Grouphave been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the statement of changes in equity, the Group cash ow statement and Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
The financial reporting framework that has been Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB applied in their preparation is applicable law and International As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply Union.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with set out on page 34, the directors are responsible for the preparation IFRS as issued by the IASB.
of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and In our opinion the information given in the Report of the directors express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in for the financial year for which the consolidated financial accordance with applicable law and International Standards on statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with financial statements.
the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Matters on which we are required to report by exception only for the companys members as a body in accordance with We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume if, in our opinion: responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where are not made: or expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the parent company financial assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 31 March 2013. assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonPaul Barkus Senior Statutory Auditor financial information in the British Telecommunications plc Annual for and on behalf of  LLP Report & Form 20-F for the year ended 31 March 2013 to identify Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors material inconsistencies with the audited consolidated financial London, United Kingdom statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for 15 May 2013 our report.
Report of the independent auditors Consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2013 35
