80 Annual report 2013 Caledonia Investments plc Information for investors Dividends, change of address and other shareholder services New Zealand registered shareholders UK registered shareholders Shareholders on the New Zealand register may arrange to Shareholders on the UK register who wish to have dividends receive their dividends by direct credit to a specified New paid directly into a UK bank account, rather than by cheque to Zealand bank account.
New Zealand registered shareholders their registered address, can complete a mandate form for this should contact Computershare Investor Services if they wish purpose.
Mandates may be obtained from Capita Registrars.
to set up such an arrangement.
Where dividends are paid directly into shareholders bank Shareholders on the New Zealand register should also notify accounts, dividend tax vouchers are sent directly to shareholders Computershare Investor Services if they have changed their registered addresses.
address, but where there is more than one registered holder, Capita Registrars also offer an international payments service all holders should sign the notification.
whereby overseas shareholders registered on the UK register The contact details for Computershare Investor Services are may convert their dividend payments into a chosen currency shown on the opposite page.
New Zealand registered and receive payment either in the form of a currency draft or shareholders may also change their addresses, update payment by a direct payment into an overseas bank account.
Details of instructions and view their shareholdings, including the currencies available under the service and how to apply, transactions, online at www.
General including the terms and conditions, are available on-line at enquiries can be directed to enquiry@computershare.
com or an application It will assist Computershare Investor Services if the CSN or pack can be requested by telephone on 44 20 8639 3405 shareholder number is quoted in any communication with them.
from outside the UK or 0871 664 0385 from within the UK, calls cost 10p per minute including VAT, plus network extras Caledonia Investments ISA between 9.00am and 5.30pm, UK time.
The Caledonia Investments Individual Savings Account ISA is a tax efficient savings account that allows participants to invest up Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address to an annual amount of 11,520 for the tax year ending 5 April held on the share register.
In the event of a change of address or 2014.
Lump sum payments or regular monthly deposits can be other amendment, shareholders on the UK register should notify made into the ISA.
Details of the ISA are available on Caledonias Capita Registrars, under the signature of the registered holder, website or by request from the company.
or where there is more than one registered holder, under the signature of the first named holder.
Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme The Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme is a plan that Post and telephone contact details for Capita Registrars are aims to provide a simple and flexible way for investors to shown on the opposite page.
Capita Registrars also provide an purchase shares in Caledonia.
Lump sum payments or regular online facility to enable shareholders to manage securely their monthly deposits can be made into the Share Savings Scheme.
By registering to use the facility, Details of the Share Savings Scheme are available on Caledonias shareholders can access a range of online services, including website or by request from the company.
viewing shareholding details, transaction and dividend histories, change of address and bank mandate and use of the online proxy PEPs and ISAs voting service.
The online facility is available at www.
Caledonias shares can be treated as qualifying investments for capitashareportal.
the purposes of the PEP and ISA rules.
Capita Registrars also offer a share dealing service and dividend Share prices reinvestment plan for existing shareholders.
The share dealing The companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock service is available online at www.
com or by telephone Exchange under the SEDOL code of 0163992 or TIDM code of on 0871 664 0384 calls cost 10p per minute including VAT, CLDN.
Prices are published daily in the Financial Times under plus network extras, with lines open Monday to Friday 8.00am the Investment Companies heading and in other leading to 4.30pm.
newspapers and can also be viewed on the companys website at www.
The dividend reinvestment plan provides a convenient way for shareholders to build up their shareholdings by using cash The companys ordinary shares are also listed on the New dividends to buy more shares in the company.
An application Zealand Exchange under the security code of CDN.
Shareholders form for the dividend reinvestment plan is available online at in New Zealand are able to trade their shares locally and receive www.
com or by telephone from Capita IRG dividends in New Zealand dollars.
Trustees Ltd on 0871 664 0381 calls cost 10p per minute The ISIN code for Caledonias ordinary shares is GB0001639920.
including VAT, plus network extras, or 44 20 8639 3402 if calling from overseas.
In each case, lines are open from Monday Monthly net asset value to Friday 8.30am to 5.30pm.
Alternatively, an application form The company releases a net asset value announcement and can be requested by email from shares@capitaregistrars.
publishes a fact sheet shortly after each month end.
These can be found on the companys website at www.
