20 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Report of the Directors continued and effectiveness of the accounting records and is required.
Once a decision is made to recruit additional management information maintained on behalf of the directors to the Board, a formal job description is drawn up Company.
Audit fees paid to  LLP and each director is invited to submit nominations and are detailed in note 6 on page 35. these are considered in accordance with the Boards agreed procedures.
The Committee may also use external agencies The Audit Committee has formulated a policy on the as and when the requirement to recruit an additional Board provision of non-audit services by the Companys appointed member becomes necessary.
auditors and has determined that they will never be The Committee also reviews and recommends to the considered for the provision of services related to Board the directors seeking re-election.
Recommendation accounting and preparation of the financial statements, is not automatic and will follow a process of evaluation internal audit, custody, tax advice to directors and tax of each directors performance and consideration of the calculations to support the financial statements.
The Committee also takes into auditors may, if required, provide non-audit services related account the mix of skills and experience of the current to a review of the Companys half year report, with all Board members.
In accordance with the Code any director other non-audit services being judged on a case-by-case serving for longer than six years would be subject to basis subject to approval by a member of the Audit particularly rigorous assessment of his her contribution.
In accordance with this approval policy, as disclosed in previous annual reports, Pricewaterhouse The Board instigated an external evaluation during the Coopers LLP were engaged to provide services in respect of financial year.
The results of the performance evaluation a case for the restitution of VAT paid to the Manager are contained in e below.
between 1996 and 2000, which case is still ongoing.
Board attendance During the year under review, they have not been engaged Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held during to provide any further non-audit services for the Company.
the financial year are shown below.
All directors usually The Audit Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness attend the Annual General Meeting.
of the audit provided by  LLP.
The Audit Nominations appointment of the auditors was put to tender in December Board Committee Committee No of meetings 8 3 1 2008.
The auditors are required to rotate the audit partner every five years and this is the fifth year that the current Simon Barratt 8 3 1 partner has been in place.
David Brief 8 3 1 Richard Hextall 8 3 1  LLP have indicated their willingness Martin Morgan 7 1 to continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the Philip Remnant 8 1 appointment of  LLP as auditors to The Directors and committees of the Board also met during the Company, and to authorise the directors to determine the year to undertake business such as the approval of the their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
Companys results and share allotments.
Nominations Committee e Board, Committee and Directors Performance All directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
Appraisal The Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes Committee but would not chair the Committee when the recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance Chairmans successor was being considered.
The Committee of the Board as a whole, the Committees and individual is responsible for reviewing Board succession planning, the Directors.
performance of the Board as a whole and the Board Committees, and the appointment of new directors.
During the year, the Directors undertook an extensive When considering succession planning, the Committee review of the Board structure, including an evaluation of bears in mind the balance of skills, knowledge, experience the performance of the Board, the Committees and of and diversity existing on the Board and will recommend individual Directors.
The appraisal of the Chairman was led when the recruitment of additional non-executive directors by Richard Hextall.
