18 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Report of the Directors continued the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as they apply to the There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of Companys business, and with the provisions of the Code the year in which a director of the Company is or was except as noted below: materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
The role of chief executive Executive directors remuneration Directors remuneration The need for an internal audit function A report on directors remuneration is on page 26.
As the Company delegates to an external investment manager Directors interests in shares which has its own internal audit function its day-to-day The interests of the current directors in the ordinary shares operations and has no employees, the Board does not consider of the Company at the beginning or date of appointment, these provisions to be relevant to the Company and has not if later and end of the financial year are shown in the reported further in respect of these provisions.
c Directors Ordinary shares of 25p 30 June 2013 1 July 2012 Board composition Beneficial: The Articles of Association provide that the total number Simon Barratt 9,627 6,754 of directors shall not be less than three nor more than David Brief 9,985 9,985 seven: the Board consists of five non-executive directors.
Richard Hextall 4,000 4,000 The biographies of the directors holding office at the date Martin Morgan 23,900 17,300 of this report, which are set out on page 13, demonstrate Philip Remnant 65,720 65,720 the breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as directors.
Philip Remnant, Simon Barratt, Richard Hextall, David Brief and There have been no further changes since the year end.
Martin Morgan served on the Board throughout the year.
Directors conflicts of interest Directors appointment, retirement and rotation Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, The Board may appoint directors to the Board and any or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or director so appointed must stand for election by the possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
During shareholders at the AGM following appointment, in the year, the Companies Act 2006 the Act has allowed accordance with the Articles of Association.
directors of public companies to authorise such conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, but only if the All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The The Articles of Association require one-third or the Act also allows the articles of association to contain other number nearest to one-third of the directors to retire by provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to rotation at each AGM.
However, the Code and the AIC Code avoid a breach of duty.
There are two safe harbours either require all directors of FTSE 350 companies to retire annually.
the situation cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give All the current directors will therefore retire and, being eligible, rise to a conflict of interest or the matter has been have all stated that they will offer themselves for re-election.
authorised in advance by the directors.
The Companys Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove Articles of Association give the directors the relevant a director before the end of his term by passing an authority required to deal with conflicts of interest.
Each of the directors has provided a statement of all conflicts Board independence of interest and potential conflicts of interest, if any, All directors have a wide range of other interests and are applicable to the Company.
A register of conflicts of interest not dependent on the Company itself.
At the Nominations has been compiled and approved by the Board.
The directors Committee meeting in July 2013, the directors reviewed have also all undertaken to notify the Chairman as soon as their independence and confirmed that all directors remain they become aware of any new potential conflicts of interest wholly independent of Henderson.
Richard Hextall is that would need to be approved by the Board and added to appointed as Senior Independent Director.
the Register, which is reviewed annually by the Board.
