14 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Report of the Directors The directors present the audited financial statements of the deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a Company and their report for the year from 1 July 2012 to particular period, enhance the performance of the 30 June 2013.
Company in the pursuit of its objective.
The Company has a portfolio invested predominantly in Business Review larger companies.
Typically at least 60% of the portfolio by The following business review is designed to provide information value will be invested in companies in the FTSE 100 Index.
primarily about the Companys business and results for the year ended 30 June 2013.
The Business Review should be read in The remainder of the portfolio will be invested in a conjunction with the Portfolio Managers Report on pages 7 to combination of UK listed medium-sized and small 9, which gives a detailed review of the investment activities for companies and up to 20% in overseas listed companies.
the year and an outlook for the future.
There are no set limits on sector exposures, although the a Status Board regularly monitors the Companys investments and The City of London Investment Trust plc registered in England the Managers investment activity.
The Manager primarily & Wales, number 34871 the Company was active employs a bottom-up value-based investment process to throughout the year under review and was not dormant.
identify suitable opportunities and pays particular regard to The Company is an investment company as defined in Section cash generation and dividends.
833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment The portfolio yield will usually be between 10% and 30% trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax above the average dividend yield for the UK equity market.
The Company was required to seek approval from There may be some holdings, selected for their above HM Revenue & Customs HMRC of its status as an average growth potential, which have a dividend yield investment trust under the above mentioned section every year lower than the market.
up to and including the year ended 30 June 2012 and such approval was granted.
From 1 July 2012 approval is by way of a Gearing one-off application for investment trust status, which has been The Company will at times utilise limited gearing, both granted.
The directors are of the opinion that the Company will short and long term, in order to enhance performance.
continue to conduct its affairs in a manner that will enable it to Other than in exceptional market conditions, gearing will continue to hold such approval.
not exceed 20% of net asset value at the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
Up to 10% of the net The Company is subject to the UK Listing Authoritys Listing assets can be held in cash.
Rules and is governed by its articles of association, amendments to which must be approved by shareholders Selling traded options where the underlying share is held in by way of a special resolution.
the portfolio can be used to generate income.
Buying and selling FTSE 100 Index Futures can be used to increase or The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so that its investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares reduce gearing.
Diversification b Investment objective and policy The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment risk principally through a broadly diversified Objective The Companys objective is to provide long-term growth in portfolio, which at 30 June 2013 contained 108 individual income and capital, principally by investment in equities listed investments 2012: 102 as detailed on pages 10 and 11. on the London Stock Exchange.
The Board continues to At 30 June 2013, the largest single investment was HSBC, recognise the importance of dividend income to shareholders.
which accounted for 5.7% of total investments, while the top 20 holdings totalled 56.60%.
Policy Asset allocation The Company will not invest more than 15% of its portfolio in any single investment on acquisition, nor will it While the Company will mainly invest in equities, there is the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as invest more than 15% of the portfolio in any other UK convertibles, corporate bonds or government debt, if it is listed investment trusts or investment companies.
