The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 19 Report of the Directors continued It has also been agreed that directors will advise the for its decision, which are categorised under various Chairman and the Company Secretary in advance of any headings including strategy, management, structure, proposed external appointment and new directors will be capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset asked to submit a list of potential situations falling within allocation, share price premium discount, contracts, the conflicts of interest provisions of the Act in advance investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, of joining the Board.
The Chairman will then determine performance, corporate governance and Board whether the relevant appointment causes a conflict or membership and appointments.
potential conflict of interest and should therefore be At each meeting the Board reviews the Companys considered by the Board.
Only directors who have no investment performance and considers financial analyses interest in the matter being considered will be able to and other reports of an operational nature.
The Board participate in the Board approval process.
In deciding monitors compliance with the Companys objective and is whether to approve a conflict of interest, directors will also responsible for setting asset allocation, investment and act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely gearing limits within which the Manager has discretion to to promote the Companys success in taking such a decision.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of any The Board can impose limits or conditions when giving investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the authorisation if the directors consider this to be appropriate.
It also has adopted a procedure for directors, in The Board confirms that its powers of authorisation of the furtherance of their duties, to take independent conflicts have operated effectively during the year.
The professional advice at the expense of the Company.
In Board also confirms that its procedures for the approval of order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all conflicts of interest have been followed by all the directors.
directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
Directors professional development The Board has two Committees: the Audit Committee and When a new director is appointed he or she is offered an the Nominations Committee.
The terms of reference for induction seminar which is held by the Investment these Committees are available on the Companys website Manager.
Directors are also provided on a regular basis www.
The Board has not formed with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory a Management Engagement Committee as it remains and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes the role of the Board as a whole to keep under review the affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board terms of the management agreement between the as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant Company and the Investment Manager.
Audit Committee Directors insurance and indemnification During the year under review, the Audit Committee Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in members were Richard Hextall, David Brief and Simon respect of the directors.
Under the Companys Articles of Barratt.
The Audit Committee comprises two independent Association and, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, members and at least one member who has competence in a qualifying third party provision indemnity may be accounting.
The Chairman is Richard Hextall who is a provided to directors in respect of costs which they may Chartered Accountant.
Simon Barratt is a qualified lawyer incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought and David Brief a pensions investment executive.
against them arising out of their positions as directors, in The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year which they are acquitted or judgment is given in their and is responsible for the review of the annual financial favour by the Court.
No indemnity was given during the statements, the nature and scope of the external audit year or up to the date of this report.
and the findings therefrom, the terms of appointment of d The Board the auditors together with their remuneration, Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees performance, independence and objectivity, as well as any During the year eight Board meetings were held to deal non-audit services provided by the auditors, and the half with the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
It meets with representatives of the Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved Investment Manager and receives reports on the quality
