The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 25 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the financial position of the company and enable them to the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial ensure that the financial statements and the Directors statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Statement under DTR 4.1.
12 United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed Under company law the directors must not approve the on page 13 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the financial statements, which have been prepared in the net return of the company for that period.
In preparing accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted these financial statements, the directors are required to: Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the consistently: Company: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are the Report of the Directors contained in this Annual Report reasonable and prudent: includes a fair review of the development and performance state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have of the business and the position of the Company, together been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties and explained in the financial statements respectively: that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Signed for and on behalf of the Board of directors company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Philip Remnant records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys Chairman transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 16 September 2013 The financial statements are published on www.
com which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson.
The maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility of Henderson: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
