24 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Report of the Directors continued corporate responsibility for all the companies in which it asset value, the net asset value being calculated with debt at invests on behalf of its clients, and its policy on proxy fair value.
At the date of this report the directors have voting.
The Policy also sets out how Henderson implements remaining authority to issue a further 4,805,986 shares.
The Company has reviewed authorities to issue shares and to disapply pre-emption rights Hendersons policy and has delegated responsibility for will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in October 2013, voting to the Manager.
The Board receives a report, at least when new authorities will be sought.
annually, on the voting undertaken by the Manager on Following the introduction of new investment trust tax rules it behalf of the Company.
is now possible for investment trust companies to distribute The Board and Henderson believe that voting at general capital profits by way of dividend.
Therefore a resolution to meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship amend the Companys articles of association is proposed at and a means of signalling shareholder views on Board the AGM to enable the Company to take advantage of the policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations added flexibility allowed by the new tax rules.
The Board has are guided by the best interests of the investee companies no intention at the current time to distribute capital profits as shareholders.
Depending on the nature of the resolution the dividends but believes that it is in shareholders best interests Portfolio Manager and or members of the Board will give for the Board to have this power should circumstances specific instructions on voting non-routine and unusual or warrant its use in the future.
Decisions not to support resolutions and the rationale therefore are fed back to the Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditors investee company prior to voting.
The directors who were members of the Board at the time of The Henderson Responsible Investment Policy and further approving this Report are listed on page 13.
Each of those details of Hendersons responsible investment activities can directors confirms that: be found on the Henderson website, www.
to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no Employee and environmental matters information relevant to the preparation of their report of The Company has no employees and outsources its which the Companys auditors are unaware: and investment management and company secretarial services to subsidiaries of Henderson.
Henderson has implemented they have taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit environmental management practices, which include systems to limit the use of non-renewable resources and to information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
minimise the impact of operations on the environment, and is focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and minimising waste, where possible.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held on 28 October 2013 at 3.00pm at the Companys registered office.
Separate resolutions will be proposed for each substantive issue.
The notice and details of the resolutions to be put at the AGM are contained in the separate circular being sent to shareholders with this annual report.
By order of the Board At the AGM in October 2012 the directors were granted David Rice ACIS authority to issue up to 24,080,986 ordinary shares.
Since the For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited AGM in October 2012, to date 19,275,000 shares have been Company Secretary issued.
All the shares were issued at a premium to the net 16 September 2013
