Other information Glossary Term Definition Actuarial best estimate The probability-weighted average of all future claims and cost scenarios calculated using historical data, actuarial methods and judgement.
A best estimate of reserves will therefore normally be designed to include no margin for optimism or conversely, caution.
AIP Annual Incentive Plan Available-for-sale Financial assets that are classified as available for sale.
Please refer to the accounting policy note 1.12 on page 117.
AFS investment BAYE Buy-As-You-Earn BitC Business in the Community Capital The funds invested in the Group, which includes funds invested by shareholders and retained profits.
Claims frequency The number of claims divided by the number of policies per year.
Claims reserve Funds set aside by the Group to meet the estimated cost of claims payments and related expenses that the Group provision for losses and considers will ultimately be required to be paid.
loss adjustment expense Clawback The ability of the Company to claim repayment of paid amounts as a debt.
Combined operating The sum of the loss, expense and commission ratios.
The ratio is a measure of the amount of claims costs and expenses ratio COR compared to net earned premium generated.
A ratio of less than 100% indicates a profitable business.
Commission Amounts paid to brokers, partners and price comparison websites for generating business.
Commission ratio The ratio of commission expense divided by net earned premium.
Current-year The loss ratio for the current accident year excluding the impact of movement of claims reserves relating to previous attritional loss ratio accident years and claims relating to weather events in the Home division.
DAIP Deferred Annual Incentive Plan DL4B Direct Line for Business, an extension of the Direct Line brand, is our direct commercial insurance brand for micro and small-sized businesses in the UK that have straightforward commercial insurance requirements.
Earnings per share The amount of the Groups profit allocated to each Ordinary Share of the Company.
ERB Employee Representative Body Expense ratio The ratio of operating expenses divided by net earned premium.
Finance costs The cost of servicing the Groups external borrowings.
Financial Conduct The independent body that regulates firms and financial advisers to help put the interests of their customers Authority FCA and the integrity of the market at the core of what they do.
FOS Financial Ombudsman Service FRC Financial Reporting Council Gross written premium The total premiums from contracts that began during the period.
IASB International Accounting Standards Board Incurred but not Funds set aside to meet the cost of claims for accidents that have taken place, but have not yet been reported IBNR reported to us.
Incurred loss Claims that have been paid plus claims advised by a policyholder but not yet paid.
Does not include IBNR see above.
ICA Individual capital assessment ICAS Individual capital adequacy standards ICAS Introduced by the PRA in 2013, ICAS is an extension of the ICAS regime to allow firms to use their developing Solvency II frameworks, in particular the internal model.
In-force policies The number of policies on a given date that are active and against which the Group will pay following a valid insurance claim.
Initial Public The first sale of shares by a previously unlisted company to investors on a securities exchange.
Offering IPO IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard Insurance reserves This consists of insurance liabilities and liability adequacy reserve.
Together these amount to the reserves an insurance company maintains to meet current and future claims.
Investment income yield The annualised investment return earned through the income statement during the period, divided by the average assets under management AUM for each asset class during the same period.
The investment return excludes realised gains, impairments and fair vale adjustments, while the average AUM for the period is derived by taking the opening and closing balances for the period.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 177 Glossary continued Term Definition Investment return The income earned from the investment portfolio.
Investment return yield The total annualised investment return earned through the income statement during the period, including items such as realised gains, fair value adjustments and impairments, divided by the average AUM for each asset class during the same period.
KPI Key performance indicator Loss ratio Net insurance claims divided by net earned premium.
LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan Malus An arrangement that permits the forfeiture of unvested remuneration awards, in circumstances considered appropriate by the Company.
Net asset value The net asset value of the Group is calculated by subtracting total liabilities from total assets.
Net claims The cost of claims incurred in the period less any claims costs recovered under reinsurance contracts.
It includes both claims payments and movements in claims reserves.
Net earned premium The element of gross earned premium less reinsurance premium ceded for the period that insurance cover has already been provided.
Ogden discount rate The discount rate set by the relevant government bodies, the Lord Chancellor and Scottish Ministers, and used to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases.
Ongoing operations Includes the Groups ongoing segments: Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines, Commercial and International.
It excludes the Run-off segment and restructuring and other one-off costs.
Operating profit The pre-tax profit generated by the activities of the Group, including insurance and investment activity, but excluding finance costs.
ORSA Own Risk and Solvency Assessment Periodic payment These are claims payments as awarded under the Courts Act 2003.
PPOs are used to settle large personal injury order PPO claims and generally provide claimants who require long-term care with a lump sum award together with inflationlinked annual payments.
Prudential Regulation The Prudential Regulation Authority is a part of the Bank of England and responsible for the prudential regulation and Authority PRA supervision of insurers and financial institutions in the UK.
RBS Group The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and its subsidiary companies.
Reinsurance Contractual arrangements whereby the Group transfers part or all of the insurance risk accepted to another insurer.
Reserves Funds that have been set aside to meet outstanding insurance claims and IBNR.
Return on equity Return on equity is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the owners of the Company by average ordinary shareholders equity for the period.
Return on tangible Return on tangible equity is adjusted profit after tax from ongoing operations divided by the Groups average tangible equity RoTE shareholders equity.
Profit after tax is adjusted to exclude the Run-off segment and restructuring and other one-off costs and is stated after charging tax using the UK standard tax rate.
Pro forma RoTE is based on RoTE, but assumes that the capital actions taken by the Group during 2012 1 billion dividend payment and 500 million long-term subordinated debt issue occurred on 1 January 2012.
Risk mix This reflects the expected level of claims from the portfolio.
Run-off Where the Group no longer underwrites new business but continues to meet its claims liabilities under existing contracts.
SME Small and medium-sized enterprises Solvency II The proposed capital adequacy regime for the European insurance industry, which establishes a revised set of EU-wide capital requirements and risk management standards.
It is comprised of three pillars: Pillar I, which sets out capital requirements for an insurer, Pillar II which focuses on systems of governance and Pillar III which deals with disclosure requirements.
Three lines of defence The 1st line of defence is provided by line managers who are responsible for ownership and management of the risks to the achievement of business objectives on a day-to-day basis.
The 2nd line of defence is provided by specialist control functions, including Risk and Compliance, which are responsible for the provision of proportionate oversight of the business and related or emerging risks.
Group Audit delivers the 3rd line of defence through the provision of an independent view for the Board or the effectiveness of risk management.
Total shareholder Compares the movements in the share price and dividends paid over a period of time, as a percentage return TSR of the share price at the beginning of the period.
UK Corporate The UK Corporate Governance Code, dated September 2012 and issued by the FRC.
Governance Code the Code Underwriting The profit or loss from operational activities, excluding investment performance.
It is calculated as: profit loss Net earned premium less Net insurance claims less Total expenses 178 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013
