Other information Forward-looking statements disclaimer This Annual Report & Accounts has been prepared for, and Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future only for, the members of the Company as a body, and no performance.
The Groups actual results of operations, financial other persons.
The Company, its Directors, employees, agents condition and the development of the business sector in which or advisers do not accept responsibility to any other person to the Group operates may differ materially from those suggested whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come by the forward-looking statements contained in this document, and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
for example directly or indirectly as a result of, but not limited to, UK domestic and global economic business conditions, Certain information contained in this document, including any market-related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and information as to the Groups strategy, plans or future financial exchange rates, the policies and actions of regulatory authorities or operating performance, constitutes forward-looking including changes related to capital and solvency requirements statements.
These forward-looking statements may be identified or the Ogden discount rate, the impact of competition, by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms currency changes, inflation and deflation, the timing impact aims, anticipates, believes, continue, could, estimates, and other uncertainties of future acquisitions, disposals, joint expects, guidance, intends, may, outlook, plans, ventures or combinations within relevant industries, as well as predicts, projects, seeks, should, targets or will or, the impact of tax and other legislation and other regulation in in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable the jurisdictions in which the Group and its affiliates operate.
terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, In addition, even if the Groups actual results of operations, goals, future events or intentions.
These forward-looking financial condition and the development of the business sector statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
in which the Group operates are consistent with the forwardThey appear in a number of places throughout this document looking statements contained in this document, those results or and include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or developments may not be indicative of results or developments current expectations of the Directors concerning, among other in subsequent periods.
things: the Groups results of operations, financial condition, prospects, growth, strategies and the industry in which the The forward-looking statements contained in this document Group operates.
Examples of forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available as of the date include financial targets which are contained in this document of preparation of this document.
The Group and the Directors specifically with respect to RoTE, the Groups COR, the COR expressly disclaim any obligations or undertaking to update for the Groups Commercial division, and cost savings.
By or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and a result of new information, future events or otherwise, unless uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on required to do so by applicable law or regulation.
Nothing circumstances that may or may not occur in the future or are in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
Neither the content of Direct Line Groups website nor the content of any other website accessible from hyperlinks on the Groups website is incorporated into, or forms part of, this document.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 179
