Other information Additional information Market Shareholders can also access their current shareholding details The Company has a primary listing on the UK Listing Authoritys online at www.
Investor Centre Official List and its Ordinary Shares are admitted to trading is a free-to-use, secure, self-service website where shareholders on the London Stock Exchange.
can manage their holdings online.
The website enables shareholders to: Share ownership Share capital check their holdings: The details of the Companys share capital are presented update their records including address and direct credit details : in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
access all their securities in one portfolio by setting up a Dividends personal account: The Group aims to generate long-term sustainable value for vote online: and shareholders, while balancing operational, regulatory, rating register to receive electronic shareholder communications.
The Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy for the Company, which will aim The website requires shareholders to quote their Shareholder to increase the dividend annually in real terms to reflect its cash Reference Number in order to access this information.
flow generation and long-term earnings potential.
Shareholder warning It is expected that one-third of the annual dividend will 5,000 people contact the FCA about share fraud each year, generally be paid in the third quarter as an interim dividend with victims losing an average of 20,000. and two-thirds will be paid as a final dividend in the second quarter of the following year.
The Board may revise the Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure dividend policy from time to time.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated In addition, if the Board believes that the Group has capital price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are that is surplus to the Boards view of its requirements, it is promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will intended that it will be returned to shareholders.
The Company probably lose your money.
may consider a special dividend and or the repurchase of its own shares as a means of distributing surplus capital How to avoid share fraud to shareholders.
Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares The Company pays its dividends in Pounds Sterling to shareholders registered on its principal register in the UK.
Do not get into a conversation: note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call Shareholders may have their cash dividends paid directly into Check the Financial Services Register from www.
uk a bank or building society by completing a dividend mandate to see if the person and firm contacting you are authorised form, which is available from the Companys share registrar by the FCA Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC in the UK.
Contact details for the Registrar are set out on page 180.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, Alternatively, shareholders may access their shareholdings copying its website or giving you false contact details online and download a dividend mandate from the Investor Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you Centre, please see page 180 for details.
want to call it back Shareholder enquiries Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not Shareholders with queries on any matter relating to their shares have contact details on the Register or you are told they are invited to contact our Registrar using the contact details are out of date listed on page 180 of this Annual Report & Accounts.
Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
uk scams Shareholders should notify the Registrar of any change in shareholding details in a timely manner.
Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 175 Additional information continued Report a scam Dealing facilities If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using Shareholders can buy, sell or transfer Direct Line Group shares the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, through a stockbroker or a high street bank, or through the where you can find out more about investment scams.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on The Registrar may be contacted regarding its share-dealing 0800 111 6768. facility by telephone or by email as follows: If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should for telephone sales call 44 0 870 703 0084 between contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
8.30 am and 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays: and Tips on how you can protect your shares for internet sales log on to www.
Ensure all your certificates are kept in a safe place, You will need your shareholder reference number as or consider holding your shares in the UKs electronic shown on your share certificate or your welcome letter registration and settlement system for equity, CREST, from the Chairman.
or via a nominee Keep all correspondence from the Registrar that shows your Financial calendar shareholder reference number in a safe place and shred 2014 unwanted correspondence 26 February Announcement of results 2013 Inform the Registrar as soon as you change your address If you receive a letter from the Registrar regarding a change 12 March Ex-dividend date for second special interim of address and you have not recently moved, please contact and 2013 final dividend them immediately 14 March Record date for second special interim Be aware of when the dividends are paid and contact the and 2013 final dividends Registrar if you do not receive your dividend 1 2 May First quarter 2014 Interim Consider having your dividends paid directly into your bank Management Statement account you will need to fill out a dividend mandate form and send it to the Registrar : this reduces the risk of the 15 May Annual General Meeting cheque being intercepted or lost in the post 20 May Payment date for second special interim If you change your bank account, inform the Registrar of the and 2013 final dividends details of your new account immediately 1 If you are buying or selling shares, deal only with brokers 1 August Half year 2014 Interim Report registered in the UK or in your country of residence 1 13 August Ex-dividend date for 2014 interim dividend Be aware that the Company will never contact you by 1 telephone concerning investment matters.
If you receive 15 August Record date for 2014 interim dividend such a call from a person purporting to represent the Group 1 12 September Payment date for 2014 interim dividend please contact the Company Secretary immediately 1 31 October Third quarter 2014 Interim Corporate website Management Statement The Groups corporate website is www.
It contains more useful information for the Companys investors Note: and shareholders, including press releases, forthcoming events, 1.
These dates are subject to change essential shareholder information, a financial calendar and details of the Companys AGM.
You may also subscribe for Annual General Meeting email news alerts.
The 2014 AGM will be held on 15 May 2014 at The Auditorium, Allen & Overy LLP, One Bishops Square, London Electronic communications and voting E1 6AD, starting at 10.00 am.
All shareholders will receive The Group produces a range of communications which a separate notice convening the AGM, which will explain shareholders can receive in a range of formats.
View online, the resolutions to be put to the meeting.
download or receive a paper copy by contacting the Registrar.
The contact details can be found on page 180.
Shareholders who register their email address with our Registrar or on the Investor Centre can be kept informed of events such as the AGM and receive shareholder communications like the Annual Report & Accounts and Notice of Meeting electronically.
176 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013
