Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Corporate information The effect of the above on the Group profit for the year ended 31 December 2012 was to decrease profit after tax Direct Line Insurance Group plc is a public limited company by 30.9 million, with an equal and opposite credit in the incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The address of the statement of changes in equity.
registered office is Churchill Court, Westmoreland Road, Bromley, BR1 1DP, England.
Adoption of new and revised standards The following new or revised standards have been adopted 1.
Accounting policies in the year and have not had a material impact on the Groups Basis of preparation financial statements: As required by the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements replaced SIC 12 are prepared in accordance with IFRSs issued by the IASB Consolidation Special Purpose Entities and the consolidation as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements have been elements of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial prepared in accordance with and full compliance with IFRSs Statements.
The new standard adopts a single definition as issued by the IASB.
of control: a reporting entity controls another entity when the reporting entity has the power to direct the activities of that The consolidated financial statements are prepared on other entity to generate returns for the reporting entity: the historical cost basis except for available-for-sale AFS financial assets, investment property and derivative financial IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements was amended to instruments, which are measured at fair value.
delete all other aspects of the previous standard other than those dealing with separate financial statements: The Companys financial statements and the Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities covers Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
disclosures for entities reporting under IFRS 10 and IFRS 11, replacing the requirements in IAS 28 and IAS 27.
Entities are The Group in its current structure was formed on 2 April 2012 required to disclose information that helps users of financial when the Company acquired Direct Line Versicherung AG statements evaluate the nature, risks and financial effects from a former fellow subsidiary of The Royal Bank of Scotland associated with an entitys interests in subsidiaries, associates Group plc.
Therefore the basis of preparation represents a and joint arrangements and unconsolidated structured entities: reorganisation of entities under common control, which is outside the scope of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Accordingly, IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement sets out a single IFRS as permitted by IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in framework for defining and measuring fair value and requiring Accounting Estimates and Errors, it has been accounted for disclosures about fair value measurements: as a group reconstruction as described in Financial Reporting Standard 6, Acquisitions and Mergers.
The consolidated IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income financial statements have been prepared as if the transaction requires items that will never be recognised in the income that gave rise to the formation of the Group had taken place statement to be presented in other comprehensive income at the beginning of 2011.
Under these principles, the separately from those that are subject to subsequent consolidated financial statements have been prepared reclassification: as if the Company were the holding company of Direct Line IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure Offsetting Financial Versicherung AG from 1 January 2011.
Assets and Financial Liabilities was amended to allow users As part of the divestment from RBS Group, the treatment of to consider the impact of netting arrangements as permitted expenses incurred by RBS Group on behalf of the Group by IAS 32 paragraph 42 on the financial statements: and changed.
Up until 30 June 2012, only some of these expenses IAS 19 Employee Benefits was revised and requires were recharged to the Group by RBS Group.
From 1 July 2012, the immediate recognition of all actuarial gains and some of the services previously provided by RBS Group have losses eliminating the corridor approach: interest costs been brought in-house and so the related expenses are now to be calculated on the net pension liability or asset at incurred directly by the Group and reflected in expenses the appropriate bond rate: and all past service costs to in the income statement: other services are still provided by be recognised immediately when a scheme is curtailed RBS Group under transitional services agreements and the or amended.
related expenses are charged to the Group.
In order to aid comparability, the Groups accounting policy was changed on 1 January 2011 so that all expenses were included within the income statement.
For the avoidance of doubt, this includes external costs incurred by the Group and costs incurred by RBS Group, irrespective of whether RBS Group recharged them to the Group.
In the case of expenses incurred by RBS Group and not recharged to the Group, a capital contribution was credited to retained earnings in the statement of changes in equity to reflect this contribution from a shareholder.
In addition there was a further contribution of 6.3 million in respect of overseas taxation.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 113 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 113 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued operation are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The amount accumulated in equity is 1.1 Basis of consolidation reclassified from equity to the consolidated income statement The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial on disposal or partial disposal of a foreign operation.
statements of the Company and the entities that are controlled by the Group at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 1.3 Contract classification 2012.
Control exists when the Group is exposed, or has Insurance contracts are those contracts where the Group rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity the insurer has accepted significant insurance risk from and has the ability to affect those returns through its power another party the policyholder by agreeing to compensate over the entity.
In assessing if the Group controls another entity, the policyholder if a specified uncertain future event the existence and effect of the potential voting rights that are the insured event adversely affects the policyholder.
currently exercisable or convertible are considered.
Once a contract has been classified as an insurance contract, Where necessary, adjustments have been made to the it remains an insurance contract for the remainder of its lifetime, financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting even if the insurance risk reduces significantly during this policies used into line with those used by the Group.
period, unless all rights and obligations are extinguished.
The policies set out below have been applied consistently throughout the years ended 31 December 2013 and 1.4 Revenue recognition 31 December 2012 to items considered material to the Premiums earned consolidated financial statements.
Insurance and reinsurance premiums comprise the total premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts A subsidiary acquired is included in the consolidated financial incepted during the financial year, adjusted by an unearned statements from the date it is controlled by the Group until the premium provision, which represents the proportion of the date the Group ceases to control it.
On acquisition of a premiums incepted in prior periods and that relate to periods subsidiary, its identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent of insurance cover after the balance sheet date.
Unearned liabilities are included in the consolidated financial statements premiums are calculated over the period of exposure under at fair value.
the policy, on a daily basis, 24ths basis or allowing for the estimated incidence of exposure under policies.
All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses between Group entities are eliminated on consolidation.
The Premiums collected by intermediaries or other parties, consolidated financial statements are prepared using consistent but not yet received, are assessed based on estimates from accounting policies.
underwriting or past experience, and are included in insurance premiums.
Insurance premiums exclude insurance premium 1.2 Foreign currencies tax or equivalent local taxes and are shown gross of any The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented commission payable to intermediaries or other parties.
in Pounds Sterling which is the presentational currency of the Group.
Group entities record transactions in the currency The long-term assurance contracts that the Group wrote of the primary economic environment in which they operate included whole-life and term assurance contracts that were their functional currency, translated at the foreign exchange expected to remain in force for an extended period of time.
rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and The contracts insured events associated with human life liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into for example, death or the occurrence of a critical illness.
the relevant functional currency at the foreign exchange rates These were recognised as revenue when they became ruling at the balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences payable by the contract holder.
Premiums were shown arising on the settlement of foreign currency transactions before the deduction of commission.
and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities are reported in the income statement except for differences that Investment return arise on hedges of net investments in foreign operations, Interest income on financial assets is determined using the which were reported in other comprehensive income.
The effective interest rate method is a way of calculating the amortised cost of a Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies financial asset or group of financial assets and of allocating that are stated at fair value are translated into the relevant the interest income over the expected life of the asset.
In the functional currency at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the case of financial assets classified as AFS, estimates are based dates the values are determined.
Translation differences arising on the straight-line method, which is a close approximation on non-monetary items measured at fair value are recognised to the effective interest rate.
in the income statement except for differences arising on AFS non-monetary financial assets, which are recognised in other Rental income from investment property is recognised in comprehensive income.
the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the contract.
Any gains or losses arising from a change Assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated into Pounds Sterling at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the Instalment income balance sheet date.
Income and expenses of foreign Instalment income comprises the interest income earned operations are translated into Pounds Sterling at average on policyholder receivables, where outstanding premiums exchange rates unless these do not approximate the foreign are settled by a series of instalment payments.
Interest is exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign earned using an effective interest rate method over the term exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign of the policy.
114 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 114 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements Other operating income claims is analysed using statistical methodology to extrapolate, Solicitors referral fee income within acceptable probability parameters, the value of Revenue relating to this activity is recognised when the service outstanding claims gross and net at the balance sheet date.
The provision of these services is contractual and Also included in the estimation of outstanding claims are the associated cost is recognised when incurred.
factors such as the potential for judicial or legislative inflation.
In addition, an allowance is made for reinsurance assets Vehicle replacement referral income deemed not recoverable.
Vehicle replacement referral income comprises fees in respect of referral income received when a customer or a non-fault Provisions for more recent claims make use of techniques policyholder claimant of another insurer has been provided that incorporate expected loss ratios and average claims with a hire vehicle from a preferred supplier.
cost adjusted for inflation and frequency methods.
As claims mature, the provisions are increasingly driven by methods Income is recognised immediately when the customer or based on actual claims experience.
The approach adopted claimant is provided with the hire vehicle.
takes into account the nature, type and significance of the business and the type of data available, with large claims Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services generally being assessed separately.
The data used for Fees in respect of services for vehicle recovery are recognised statistical modelling purposes is generated internally and as the right to consideration, and accrue through the provision reconciled to the accounting data.
of the service to the customer.
The arrangements are generally contractual and the cost of providing the service is incurred as The calculation is particularly sensitive to the estimation of the service is rendered.
The price is usually fixed and always the ultimate cost of claims for the particular classes of business determinable.
at gross and net levels and the estimation of future claims handling costs.
Actual claims experience may differ from the The Groups income also comprises vehicle repair services historical pattern on which the actuarial best estimate is based provided to other third-party customers.
Income in respect and the cost of settling individual claims may exceed that of repairs to vehicles is recognised upon completion of the assumed.
As a result, the Group sets provisions at a margin service.
The price is determined using market rates for the above the actuarial best estimate.
This amount is recorded services and materials used after discounts have been as claims provisions.
A liability adequacy provision is made for unexpired risks Management systems income represents the sale of tracking arising where the expected value of net claims and expenses units, installation services and monitoring services.
Revenue attributable to the unexpired periods of policies in force at the is recognised immediately, with the exception of the nonbalance sheet date exceeds the unearned premium reserve in cancellable network subscriptions receivable in advance, relation to such policies after the deduction of any acquisition which are classified as deferred income in the balance sheet costs deferred and other prepaid amounts for example, and recognised on a straight-line basis over the stated term reinsurance.
The expected value is determined by reference of the subscription.
to recent experience and allowing for changes to the premium rates.
The provision for unexpired risks is calculated separately Other income by reference to classes of business that are managed together Commission fee income in respect of services is recognised after taking account of relevant investment returns.
when a policy has been placed and incepted.
Income is stated excluding applicable sales taxes.
1.6 Reinsurance The Group has reinsurance treaties and other reinsurance 1.5 Insurance claims contracts that transfer significant insurance risk.
Insurance claims are recognised in the accounting period in which the loss occurs.
Provision is made for the full cost of The Group cedes insurance risk by reinsurance in the normal settling outstanding claims at the balance sheet date, including course of business, with the arrangement and retention limits claims incurred but not yet reported at that date, net of salvage varying by product line.
Outward reinsurance premiums are and subrogation recoveries.
Outstanding claims provisions are generally accounted for in the same accounting period as not discounted for the time value of money except for claims the premiums for the related direct business being reinsured.
to be settled by PPOs established under the Courts Act 2003.
Outward reinsurance recoveries are accounted for in the same A UK court can award damages for future pecuniary loss in accounting period as the direct claims to which they relate.
respect of personal injury or for other damages in respect of personal injury and may order that the damages are wholly Reinsurance assets include balances due from reinsurance or partly to take the form of PPOs.
These are covered in more companies for ceded insurance liabilities.
Amounts recoverable detail in note 2.1.
Costs for both direct and indirect claims from reinsurers are estimated in a consistent manner with the handling expenses are also included.
outstanding claims provisions or settled claims associated with the reinsured policies and in accordance with the relevant Provisions are determined by management based on reinsurance contract.
Recoveries in respect of PPOs are experience of claims settled and on statistical models discounted for the time value of money.
which require certain assumptions to be made regarding the incidence, timing and amount of claims and any specific factors such as adverse weather conditions.
When calculating the total provision required, the historical development of Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 115 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued 1.9 Property, plant and equipment Items of property, plant and equipment except investment A reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed in respect of property see accounting policy 1.11 are stated at cost reinsurance debtors, to allow for the risk that the reinsurance less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where asset may not be collected or where the reinsurers credit an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major rating has been downgraded significantly.
This also includes components having different useful lives, they are accounted an assessment in respect of the ceded part of claims provisions for separately.
to reflect the counterparty risk exposure to long-term reinsurance assets particularly in relation to periodical payments.
This Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a is affected by the Group reducing the carrying value of the straight-line basis so as to write off the depreciable amount asset accordingly and the impairment loss is recognised of property, plant and equipment over their estimated useful in the income statement.
The depreciable amount is the cost of an asset less its residual value.
Estimated useful lives 1.7 Deferred acquisition costs are as follows: Acquisition costs relating to new and renewing insurance policies are matched with the earning of the premiums to Freehold and long 50 years or the period of the which they relate.
A proportion of acquisition costs incurred leasehold buildings lease if shorter during the year is therefore deferred to the subsequent accounting period to match the extent to which premiums Vehicles 3 years written during the year are unearned at the balance sheet date.
Computer equipment Up to 5 years The principal acquisition costs deferred are direct advertising Other equipment, including 2 to 15 years expenditure, administration costs, commission paid and costs property adaptation costs associated with telesales and underwriting staff.
The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of 1.8 Goodwill and other intangible assets property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference Acquired goodwill, being the excess of the cost of an between the disposal proceeds, if any, and the carrying acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value amount of the item.
of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the subsidiary, associate or joint venture acquired, is 1.10 Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and property, initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less plant and equipment any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is the acquisition of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures any indication that its intangible assets, goodwill or property, is included in the balance sheet category goodwill and plant and equipment are impaired.
If any such indication other intangible assets.
The gain or loss on the disposal exists, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture includes the asset and the impairment loss, if any.
Goodwill is tested for carrying value of any related goodwill.
impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
If an asset Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated does not generate cash flows that are independent of those at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
of other assets or groups of assets, the recoverable amount is Amortisation is charged to the income statement over the determined for the cash-generating unit CGU to which the assets economic lives using methods that best reflect the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the pattern of economic benefits and is included in operating higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
The estimated useful economic lives are as follows: Value in use is the present value of future cash flows from the asset or CGU, discounted at a rate that reflects market interest Software development costs 5 years rates, adjusted for risks specific to the asset or CGU that have not been reflected in the estimation of future cash flows.
Expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands is written off as incurred.
Direct costs relating to the development If the recoverable amount of an intangible or a tangible asset of internal-use computer software and associated business is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognised processes are capitalised once technical feasibility and immediately in the income statement and the carrying value economic viability have been established.
These costs include of the asset is reduced by the amount of the impairment loss.
payroll costs, the costs of materials and services, and directly attributable overheads.
Capitalisation of costs ceases when the A reversal of an impairment loss on intangible assets or software is capable of operating as intended.
During and after property, plant and equipment is recognised as it arises development, accumulated costs are reviewed for impairment provided the increased carrying value does not exceed the against the projected benefits that the software is expected to carrying amount that would have been determined had no generate.
Costs incurred prior to the establishment of technical impairment loss been recognised.
Impairment losses on feasibility and economic viability are expensed as incurred, goodwill are not reversed.
as are all training costs and general overheads.
The costs of licences to use computer software that is expected to generate economic benefits beyond one year are also capitalised.
116 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 116 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements 1.11 Investment property if available, reference to the current fair value of another Investment property comprises freehold and long-leasehold instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash properties that are held to earn rentals or for capital flow analysis and option pricing models.
If there is a valuation appreciation or both.
Investment property is not depreciated, technique commonly used by market participants to price but is stated at fair value based on valuations by independent the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to registered valuers.
Fair value is based on current prices for provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market similar properties adjusted for the specific characteristics of transactions, the Group uses that technique.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in fair The fair value of other investments that do not have a quoted value is recognised in the income statement.
market price in an active market and derivatives that are linked Investment property is derecognised either when it has been to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity disposed of, or permanently withdrawn from use and no future instrument are reliably measurable if: economic benefit is expected from disposal.
Any gains or a the variability in the range of reasonable fair value losses on the retirement or disposal of investment property are estimates is not significant for that instrument: or recognised in the income statement in the year of retirement or disposal.
b the probabilities of the various estimates within the range can reasonably be assessed and used in estimating 1.12 Financial assets fair value.
Financial assets are classified as held-to-maturity, AFS, designated at fair value through profit or loss, or loans and Loans and receivables receivables.
The Group only has AFS financial assets and Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable loans and receivables.
repayments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables, except those that are AFS classified as AFS.
Loans and receivables are initially Financial assets that are not classified as loans and receivables recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs are classified as AFS.
Financial assets can be designated as and are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the AFS on initial recognition.
AFS financial assets are initially effective interest rate method less any impairment losses.
recognised at fair value plus directly related transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at fair value.
Impairment Insurance receivables comprise outstanding insurance losses and exchange differences resulting from retranslating premiums where the policyholders have elected to pay in the amortised cost of foreign currency monetary AFS financial instalments, or amounts due from third parties where they have assets are recognised in the income statement, together with collected or are due to collect the money from the policyholder.
interest calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Other changes in the fair value of AFS financial assets are Impairment of financial assets reported in a separate component of shareholders equity At each balance sheet date the Group assesses whether there until disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss is recognised is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of in the income statement.
financial assets classified as AFS or loans and receivables is impaired.
A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is Regular way purchases of financial assets classified as loans impaired and an impairment loss incurred, if there is objective and receivables are recognised on settlement date: all other evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the regular way purchases are recognised on trade date.
asset have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
A financial asset is regarded as quoted in an active market if quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an AFS exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified as regulatory agency, and those prices represent actual and AFS has been recognised directly in equity and there is objective regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is basis.
The appropriate quoted market price for an asset held removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
is usually the current bid price.
When current bid prices are The loss is measured as the difference between the amortised unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction provides cost of the financial asset and its current fair value.
Impairment evidence of the current fair value as long as there has not been losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed through profit a significant change in economic circumstances since the time or loss, but those on AFS debt instruments are reversed, if there of the transaction.
If conditions have changed since the time is an increase in fair value that is objectively related to a of the transaction for example, a change in the risk-free interest subsequent event.
Subsequent increases in the fair value rate following the most recent price quote for a corporate of AFS other investment funds were recognised in equity.
bond, the fair value reflects the change in conditions by reference to current prices or rates for similar financial Loans and receivables instruments, as appropriate.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as loans The valuation methodology described above uses observable and receivables has been incurred, the Group measures the market data.
amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value If the market for a financial asset is not active, the Group of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets, establishes the fair value by using a valuation technique.
discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at Valuation techniques include using recent arms length market initial recognition.
transactions between knowledgeable and willing parties Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 117 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial assets A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive Impairment losses are assessed individually where significant the cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group or collectively for assets that are not individually significant.
has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the asset Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement and and has transferred substantially all the risk and rewards of the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial ownership of the asset.
assets is reduced by establishing an allowance for the 1.13 Cash and cash equivalents impairment losses.
If in a subsequent period the amount of the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to demand deposits with banks together with short-term highly an event after the impairment was recognised, the previously liquid investments that are readily convertible to known recognised loss is reversed by adjusting the allowance.
amounts of cash and subject to insignificant risk of change For amounts due from policyholders, the bad debt provision in value.
is calculated based upon prior loss experience.
For all Borrowings, comprising bank overdrafts, are measured balances outstanding in excess of three months, a bad debt at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Where a policy is subsequently cancelled, the outstanding debt that is overdue is charged to the income 1.14 Financial liabilities statement and the bad debt provision is released back to the Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value net income statement.
Other than derivatives which are recognised and measured at fair value, all other financial Derivatives and hedging liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially, and the effective interest rate method.
subsequently measured, at fair value.
Derivative fair values are determined from quoted prices in active markets where A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under available.
Where there is no active market for an instrument, the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
fair value is derived from prices for the derivatives components using appropriate pricing or valuation models.
1.15 Subordinated liabilities Subordinated liabilities comprise subordinated dated loan Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of a notes and undated loans, which are initially measured derivative are recognised as they arise in the income statement at the consideration received less related transaction costs.
unless the derivative is the hedging instrument in a qualifying Subsequently, subordinated liabilities are measured at hedge.
The Group enters into a number of hedge relationships amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
for cash flow and fair value hedges.
Previously the Group entered into hedge relationships for net investments.
1.16 Provisions The Group recognises a provision for a present legal or Hedge relationships are formally documented at inception.
constructive obligation from a past event when it is more likely The documentation identifies the hedged item and the hedging than not that it will be required to transfer economic benefits to instrument and details the risk that is being hedged and the settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated.
way in which effectiveness will be assessed at inception and during the period of the hedge.
If the hedge is not highly The Group makes provision for all insurance industry levies, effective in offsetting changes in cash flows and fair values such as the Financial Services Compensation Scheme and attributable to the hedged risk, consistent with the documented Motor Insurance Bureau.
risk management strategy, or if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is When the Group has an onerous contract, it recognises discontinued.
the present obligation under the contract as a provision.
A contract is onerous when the unavoidable costs of In the hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, meeting the contractual obligations exceed the expected the portion of foreign exchange differences arising on the future economic benefit.
In respect of leasehold properties, hedging instrument determined to be an effective hedge were a provision is recognised when the Group has a detailed recognised directly in equity, where they remain until disposal formal plan to vacate the leasehold property, or significantly or partial disposal of the associated subsidiaries.
Any reduce its level of occupancy, the plan has been ineffective portion was recognised in the income statement.
communicated to those affected and the future property Non-derivative financial liabilities as well as derivatives may costs under the lease exceed future economic benefits.
have been the hedging instrument in a net investment hedge.
Restructuring provisions are made, including redundancy costs, In a cash flow hedge, the effective portion of the gain or when the Group has a constructive obligation to restructure.
loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity.
An obligation exists when the Group has a detailed formal Any ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
plan and has communicated the plan to those affected.
In a fair value hedge, the gain or loss on the hedging 1.17 Leases instrument is recognised in the income statement.
The gain Payments made under operating leases are charged to the or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk is income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of recognised in the income statement and, where the hedged the lease.
item is measured at amortised cost, adjusts the carrying amount of the hedged item.
118 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 118 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements 1.18 Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 1.20 Share-based payments The Group provides post-retirement benefits in the form The Group operates a number of share-based compensation of pensions and healthcare plans to eligible employees.
plans under which it awards Company shares and share options to its employees.
Such awards are generally subject Contributions to the Groups defined contribution pension to vesting conditions that vary the amount of cash or shares scheme are recognised in the income statement when payable.
to which an employee is entitled.
The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, as described in Vesting conditions include service conditions requiring note 32, was closed in 2003.
Scheme liabilities are measured the employee to complete a specified period of service on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit method and performance conditions requiring the employee to and discounted at a rate that reflects the current rate of return meet specified performance targets.
on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the scheme liabilities.
The fair value of options granted is estimated using valuation techniques which incorporate exercise price, term, risk-free Scheme assets are measured at their fair value.
Any surplus interest rates, the current share price and its expected volatility.
or deficit of scheme assets over liabilities is recognised in the balance sheet as an asset surplus or liability deficit.
The cost of employee services received in exchange for an The current service cost and any past service costs together award of shares or share options granted is measured by with the net interest on net pension liability or asset, is charged reference to the fair value of the shares or share options on the or credited to operating expenses.
Actuarial gains and losses date the award is granted and takes into account non-vesting are recognised in full in the period in which they occur outside conditions and market performance conditions conditions the income statement and presented in other comprehensive related to the market price of the Companys shares.
income under Items that will not be reclassified subsequently The cost is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting to profit or loss.
period the period during which all the specified vesting 1.19 Taxation conditions must be satisfied with a corresponding increase The tax charge or credit represents the sum of the tax currently in equity in an equity-settled award, or a corresponding payable or receivable and deferred tax.
The cost is adjusted for vesting conditions other than market performance conditions so as to The current tax charge is based on the taxable profits for reflect the number of shares or share options that actually vest.
the year as determined in accordance with the relevant tax legislation, after any adjustments in respect of prior years.
The cancellation of an award through failure to meet Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income non-vesting conditions triggers an immediate expense statement because it excludes items of income or expense that for any unrecognised element of the cost of an award.
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes 1.21 Capital instruments items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a Provision for taxation is calculated using tax rates that have financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet the substance of the contractual arrangement.
An instrument is date, and is allocated over profits before taxation and amounts classified as a liability if it is a contractual obligation to deliver charged or credited to components of other comprehensive cash or another financial asset, or to exchange financial assets income and equity, as appropriate.
or financial liabilities on potentially unfavourable terms, or as equity if it evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Deferred taxation is accounted for in full using the balance Group after the deduction of liabilities.
sheet liability method on all temporary differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability for accounting The consideration for any Ordinary Share of the Company purposes and its carrying amount for tax purposes.
purchased by the Group for the benefit of the employee trusts is deducted from equity.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary timing differences and deferred tax assets are 1.22 Dividends recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable Interim dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised in profits will be available against which deductible temporary equity in the period in which they are paid.
Final dividends differences can be utilised.
on Ordinary Shares are recognised when they have been approved at the AGM.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is probable that they will not be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets are realised or liabilities are settled based on laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive income.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 119 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Groups accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial 1.23 Accounting developments condition are discussed below.
The use of estimates, In December 2011, the IASB amended IAS 32 Financial assumptions or models that differ from those adopted Instruments: Presentation for the section dealing with offsetting by the Group would affect its reported results.
a financial asset and a financial liability.
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, to be applied 2.1 General insurance: outstanding claims provisions and retrospectively, this amendment is not expected to have any related reinsurance recoveries effect on the Group.
The Group makes provision for the full cost of outstanding claims from its general insurance business at the balance sheet date, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is a new standard that is intended including claims estimated to have been incurred but not yet to replace IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and reported at that date and claims handling provision.
Outstanding Measurement in its entirety.
The replacement project consists claims provisions net of related reinsurance recoveries and of three planned phases and will impact the measurement and liability adequacy provision at 31 December 2013 amounted disclosures of financial instruments.
The first phase will change the basis and treatment of the Claims reserves are assessed separately for large and classification and measurement of financial assets and attritional claims typically using normal actuarial methods financial liabilities.
Key judgements in this assessment include The second phase is the impairment methodology and a the selection of specific methods as well as assumptions for revised exposure draft in March 2013 has proposed a more claims frequency and severity through the review of historical forward-thinking impairment model that reflects expected credit claims and emerging trends.
The corresponding reinsurance losses as opposed to the incurred loss model in IAS 39. recoveries are also calculated on an equivalent basis as discussed in note 1.6.
The final phase will cover hedge accounting for both general hedge accounting and macro hedge accounting.
The most common method of settling bodily injury claims is by a lump sum paid to the claimant and, in the cases where this There is currently no mandatory effective date for IFRS 9. includes an element of indemnity for recurring costs such as loss of earnings or ongoing medical care, settlement normally 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements occurs using a standardised Ogden annuity factor at a The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the discount rate of 2.5%.
This is normally referred to as the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie Ogden discount rate.
Other estimates are also required for the preparation of its financial information.
The Groups case management expenses, loss of pension, court protection principal accounting policies are set out on pages 113 to fees, alterations to accommodation and transportation fees.
UK company law and IFRSs require the Directors, in preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable In August 2012, the MoJ announced a review of the accounting policies, apply them consistently and make approach to setting the Ogden discount rate within the judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
existing legal framework in light of the current economic In the absence of an applicable standard or interpretation, climate.
The consultation has now taken place and the IAS 8 requires management to develop and apply an results are pending.
In addition, in February 2013, a further accounting policy that results in relevant and reliable consultation was initiated on the legal framework within which information in the light of the requirements and guidance in the rate is set as well as consideration of the usage of PPOs IFRS dealing with similar and related issues and the IASBs as a form of settlement.
The latest consultation closed in June Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial 2013 and the results are pending.
The judgements and assumptions involved in the 120 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 120 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements The Group holds provisions for a reduction in the Ogden discount rate at 31 December 2013 to 1.5% 2012: 1.5%.
Details of sensitivity analysis to the assumed Ogden discount rate are shown in 3.3.
PPOs give rise to additional claims costs which are in excess of those calculated based on the Ogden tables and discounting is applied to the total cost of the PPO and not just the additional cost.
The table below analyses the outstanding PPO claims provisions on a discounted and an undiscounted basis at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012.
These represent the total cost of PPOs rather than any costs in excess of purely Ogden-based settlement.
Discounted Undiscounted Discounted Undiscounted 2013 2013 2012 2012 m m m m At 31 December Gross claims Approved PPO claims provisions 367.7 1,099.9 300.5 918.3 Anticipated PPOs 631.2 1,935.7 962.9 2,778.6 Total 998.9 3,035.6 1,263.4 3,696.9 Reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 204.9 656.3 175.5 573.3 Anticipated PPOs 165.9 707.9 270.0 1,074.4 Total 370.8 1,364.2 445.5 1,647.7 Net of reinsurance Approved PPO claims provisions 162.8 443.6 125.0 345.0 Anticipated PPOs 465.3 1,227.8 692.9 1,704.2 Total 628.1 1,671.4 817.9 2,049.2 The provision for PPOs have been categorised as either claims which have already settled as PPOs approved PPO claims provisions and those expected to settle as PPOs in the future anticipated PPOs.
Anticipated PPOs consists of both existing large loss case reserves including allowances for development as well as claims yet to be reported to the Group.
Reinsurance is applied at claim level and the net cash flows are discounted for the time value of money.
The discount rate is consistent with the long duration of the claims payments and the assumed future indexation of the claims payments.
In the majority of cases, the inflation index agreed in the settlement is the Annual Survey of Hours and Earnings inflation published by the Office for National Statistics, for which the long-term rate is assumed to be 4.0% 2012: 4.0%.
The rate of interest used for the calculation of present values is 4.0% 2012: 4.0%, which results in a real discount rate of 0.0% 2012: 0.0%.
Details of sensitivity analysis to the discount rate applied to PPO claims are shown in note 3.3.
2.2 Impairment provisions financial assets AFS The Group determines that AFS financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence that an event or events since initial recognition of the assets have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset.
The determination of which events could have adversely affected the amount or timing of future cash flows from the asset requires judgement.
In making this judgement, the Group evaluates, among other factors, the normal price volatility of the financial asset, the financial health of the investee, industry and sector performance, changes in technology and operational and financing cash flow or where there has been a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost.
Impairment may be appropriate when there is evidence of deterioration in these factors.
On a quarterly basis, the Group reviews whether there is any objective evidence that the direct investments in AFS debt securities are impaired based on the following criteria: price performance of a particular AFS debt security, or group of AFS debt securities, demonstrating an adverse trend compared to the market as a whole: adverse movements in the credit rating for corporate debt: actual, or imminent, default on coupon interest or nominal: or offer on buyback of perpetual bonds below par value.
Impairment provision charges on AFS financial assets at 31 December 2013 amounted to nil 2012: nil.
Had all the declines in AFS asset values met the criteria above at 31 December 2013, the Group would suffer a further 40.4 million loss 2012: 21.5 million loss, being the transfer of the total AFS reserve for unrealised losses to the income statement.
These movements represent mark-to-market movements and where there is no objective evidence of any loss events that could affect future cash flows, no impairments are recorded for these movements.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 121 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued 2.3 Fair value Financial assets classified as AFS debt securities are recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
The fair value of all AFS debt securities was determined using observable market input and at 31 December 2013 amounted to 7,005.5 million 2012: 7,156.5 million.
Freehold and long leasehold properties that are classified as investment properties are recognised in the financial statements at fair value.
The fair value at 31 December 2013 amounted to 223.4 million 2012: 128.9 million was determined using a valuation model that includes inputs that are unobservable.
Estimation of the fair value of assets and liabilities In estimating the fair value of financial assets and investment properties the methods and assumptions used by the Group incorporate: Financial assets and liabilities For fixed maturity securities, fair values are generally based upon quoted market prices.
Where market prices are not readily available, fair values are estimated using values obtained from quoted market prices of comparable securities.
Investment property Investment property is recorded at fair value, measured by independent valuers who hold a recognised and relevant professional qualifications.
The valuation model is driven predominantly by unobservable inputs, as although in part the valuations are compared with recent market transactions for similar properties, they are adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property.
For disclosure purposes, fair value measurements are classified as Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which fair value is observable: Level 1 financial assets are measured in whole or in part by reference to published quotes in an active market.
In an active market quoted prices are readily and regularly available from an exchange, dealer, broker, industry group, pricing service or regulatory agency and those prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions on an arms length basis.
Level 2 financial assets are measured using a valuation technique based on assumptions that are supported by prices from observable current market transactions.
These are assets for which pricing is obtained via pricing services, but where prices have not been determined in an active market, or financial assets with fair values based on broker quotes, investments in private equity funds with fair values obtained via fund managers or assets that are valued using the Groups own models whereby the majority of assumptions are market-observable.
Level 3 fair value measurements used for investment properties are those derived from a valuation technique that include inputs for the asset that are unobservable.
2.4 Deferred acquisition costs The Group defers a proportion of acquisition costs incurred during the year to subsequent accounting periods.
Management use estimation techniques to determine the level of costs to be deferred, by category of business.
Judgement is used to determine the types of cost that can be deferred and these are referred to in note 1.7.
The total deferred acquisition costs at 31 December 2013 amounted to 321.5 million 2012: 327.6 million.
During 2013, the Group reviewed these costs included in the calculation of deferred acquisition costs and considers them to be appropriate, and has determined that they are recoverable.
2.5 Goodwill The Group capitalises goodwill arising on the acquisition of businesses as discussed in note 1.8.
The carrying value of goodwill at 31 December 2013 was 211.0 million 2012: 211.0 million.
Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired business over the fair value of its net assets.
The determination of the fair value of assets and liabilities of businesses acquired requires the exercise of management judgement: for example those financial assets and liabilities for which there are no quoted prices and those non-financial assets where valuations reflect estimates of market conditions, such as property.
Different fair values would result in changes to the goodwill arising and to the post-acquisition performance.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the Groups CGUs or groups of CGUs expected to benefit from the combination.
Goodwill impairment testing involves the comparison of the carrying value of a CGU or group of CGUs with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGUs fair value and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU or group of CGUs.
Fair value is the amount obtainable from the sale of the CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties.
Impairment testing inherently involves a number of judgemental areas: the preparation of the five-year strategic plan and the extrapolation of cash flow forecasts beyond the normal requirements of management reporting: the assessment of the discount rate appropriate to the business: estimation of the fair value of CGUs: and the valuation of the separable assets of each business 122 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 122 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements whose goodwill is being reviewed.
Details of a sensitivity analysis on the recoverable amount in excess of carrying value are shown in note 16.
2.6 Property, plant and equipment The Group does not revalue property, plant and equipment.
However it takes appropriate steps to consider whether the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment exceeds the balance sheet carrying value of such items.
The Group is satisfied that the aggregate value of property, plant and equipment are not less than their carrying value.
Risk management 3.1 Enterprise-Wide Risk Management framework The ERM framework within the Group is designed to ensure that risk management is a forward-looking discipline, focused on facilitating appropriate and fair outcomes on a consistent and reliable basis for all stakeholders.
The ERM process provides the Group with a consistent and holistic view of risk management.
Further information can be found in the Risk management section of the Strategic report on page 22.
3.2 Risk and capital management modelling The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group has sufficient funds to meet its liabilities as they fall due.
The Group carries out detailed modelling of its assets, liabilities and the key risks to which these are exposed.
This modelling includes the Groups own assessment of its capital requirements for solvency purposes.
The assessment is submitted to the PRA as the ICA in respect of its UK regulated entities.
The ICA quantifies the insurance, market, counterparty, liquidity, operational and Group risk that the UK regulated entities are undertaking.
The Board is closely involved in the ICA process and reviews and approves its assumptions and results.
3.3 Principal risks from insurance activities and use of financial instruments The Risk management section of the Strategic Report sets out all the risks assessed by the Group as principal risks.
Detailed below is the Groups risk exposure arising from its insurance activities and use of financial instruments specifically in respect of insurance risk, market risk and counterparty risk.
1 Insurance risk Insurance risk can arise from: fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of insured events and their ultimate settlement, relative to the expectations of the Group at the time of underwriting, including those driven by inaccurate pricing, inappropriate underwriting guidelines and terms and conditions, and holding inadequate reserves: inadequate reinsurance protection: and concentration of business leading to unexpected claim levels frequency and severity from a single source.
The Group predominantly underwrites personal lines insurance including motor, residential property, roadside assistance, creditor, travel and pet business.
The Group also underwrites commercial risks primarily for low-to-medium risk trades within the SME market.
Contracts are typically issued on an annual basis, which means that the Groups liability usually extends for a 12-month period, after which the Group is entitled to decline to renew or can impose renewal terms by amending the premium or other policy terms and conditions such as the excess as appropriate.
Prior to July 2011, the Group underwrote long-term insurance falling within the business classes of life and annuity and permanent health.
From 6 July 2011 the Group ceased accepting new business.
The products provided included mortgage life cover, fixed term cover with critical illness, over 50s life cover and the life cover associated with the creditor business underwritten by the Groups general insurance business.
Contracts were issued typically on a long-term basis, which means that the Groups liability extended for a period ranging from five years up to 52 years.
On 28 November 2013, the Life business was sold and liability was transferred away from the Group.
For creditor insurance, contracts are issued either on a monthly renewable basis regular premium, which can be amended or cancelled by the customer at any point during the contract, or cover period of a loan single premium.
In the former case, the Group can cancel or amend the policy following a 90-day written notice period.
In the latter case these policies were withdrawn from sale in April 2009, the customer has the option to cancel the contract at any point but generally the Group is obligated for the full term up to a maximum of 10 years, but typically three to five years.
Reserving risk Reserving risk relates to both premiums and claims.
It is the risk that reserves are assessed incorrectly, such that either insufficient funds have been retained to pay or handle claims as the amounts fall due both in relation to those claims which have already been incurred in relation to claims reserves or will be incurred in future periods of insurance in relation to premium reserves, or a surplus of funds has been retained resulting in opportunity costs.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 123 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued Reserving risk is controlled through a range of processes: regular periodic reviews of the claims, premium and liability adequacy reserves for the main classes of business by the internal actuarial team: the use of external actuaries to review periodically the actuarial best estimate reserves produced internally, either through peer review or through provision of independent reserve estimates: accompanying all reserve reviews with actuarial assessment of the uncertainties through a variety of techniques including bootstrapping and scenario analysis: oversight of the reserving process by relevant senior management and the Board: regular reconciliation of the data used in the actuarial reviews against general ledger data and reconciliation of the claims data history against the equivalent data from prior reviews: and assessing the volatility in the reserves to help the Board set management best estimate reserves.
The Groups reserves are particularly susceptible to potential retrospective changes in legislation and new court decisions, for example, a change in the Ogden discount rate.
This is the discount rate set by the relevant government bodies and used by courts to calculate lump sum awards in bodily injury cases.
The rate is currently 2.5% per annum but is under review by the MoJ.
From 2010, the Group has calculated its estimated reserve based on an assumed Ogden discount rate of 1.5%, in recognition of the uncertainty regarding the future rate.
As referred to on page 25, uncertainty in claims reserve estimation is larger for claims such as PPOs for which annually indexed payments are made periodically over several years or even the lifetime of the injured party.
Claims reserves for PPOs are held on a discounted basis and the table below indicates the sensitivity of discounted claims reserves to changes in the discount rate.
The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table and above could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Increase decrease Increase decrease in total equity at in income statement 31 December 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m 1 PPOs Impact of an increase in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100 basis points bps 81.7 104.7 80.5 104.7 Impact of a decrease in the discount rate used in the calculation of present values of 100bps 118.5 150.4 116.8 150.4 Ogden Impact of an increase in the Ogden discount rate by 100bps 169.7 156.6 169.7 156.6 Impact of a decrease in the Ogden discount rate by 100bps 238.2 219.8 238.2 219.8 Notes: 1.
The sensitivities relating to an increase or decrease in the discount rate used for PPOs illustrate a movement in the time value of money from the assumed level of 4.0%.
An increase in the discount rate reflects a decrease in the time value of money and therefore the present value of future liabilities which increases the total equity which would be reflected in the income statement.
The selection of these sensitivities should not be interpreted as a prediction.
The sensitivities set out above include the impact of reinsurance, but exclude the impact of taxation.
Claims management risk Claims management risk is the risk that claims are paid or handled inappropriately.
Claims are managed utilising a range of IT system driven controls coupled with manual processes outlined in detailed policies and procedures to ensure claims are handled in an appropriate, timely and accurate manner.
Each member of staff has a specified handling authority, with controls preventing them handling or paying claims outside their authority, as well as controls to mitigate the risk of paying invalid claims.
In addition, there are various outsourced claims handling arrangements, all of which are monitored closely by management, with similar principles applying in terms of the controls and procedures.
Loss adjustors are used in certain circumstances to handle claims to conclusion.
This involves liaison with the policyholder, third parties, suppliers and the claims function.
124 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 124 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements Specialist bodily injury claims teams in the UK are responsible for handling these types of losses with the nature of handling dependent on the level and type of claim.
Where applicable, they are referred to the technical and large loss teams who also deal with all other claim types above defined limits or within specific criteria.
A process is in place in the UK business to deal with major weather and other catastrophic events, known as the Surge Demand Plan.
A surge is the collective name given to an incident which significantly increases the volume of claims reported to the Groups claims functions.
The plan covers surge demand triggers, stages of incident, operational impact, communication and management information monitoring of the impact.
Reinsurance risk The Group uses reinsurance to: protect the insurance results against low-frequency, high-severity losses through the transfer of catastrophe claims volatility to reinsurers: protect the insurance results against unforeseen volumes of, or adverse trends in, large individual claims in order to reduce volatility and to improve stability of earnings: reduce the Groups capital requirements: and or transfer risk that is not within the Groups current risk retention strategy.
Using reinsurance the Group cedes insurance risk to reinsurers but, in return, assumes back counterparty risk against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
The financial security of the Groups panel of reinsurers is therefore extremely important and both the quality and quantum of the assumed counterparty risk are subject to an approval process whereby reinsurance is only purchased from reinsurers that hold a credit rating of at least Aat the time cover is purchased.
The Groups leading counterparty exposures represent the accumulated counterparty risk for all Group underwriting entities and are reviewed on a monthly basis.
The Group aims to contract with a diverse range of reinsurers on its contracts to mitigate the credit and or non-payment risks associated with its reinsurance exposures.
Certain reinsurance contracts have long durations as a result of PPOs, and insurance reserves therefore include provisions beyond the levels created for shorter-term reinsurance bad debt.
Reinsurance risk arises from: a failure of reinsurance to control exposure to losses, to reduce volatility or to protect capital: an inability to place reinsurance cost effectively or on acceptable terms: and or reinsurer defaults.
Insurance concentration risk The Group is subject to concentration risk in a variety of forms, including: geographic concentration risk the Group purchases a UK catastrophe reinsurance programme to protect against a modelled 1 in 200 year loss.
The retained deductible is 150 million at 31 December 2013 2012: 125 million.
There are also relevant covers to protect the Groups international businesses: product concentration risk the Groups business is heavily concentrated in the UK general insurance market.
However, the Group offers a diversified portfolio of products and a variety of brands sold through a range of distribution channels to its customers: sector concentration risk the concentration of the Group to any given industry sector is monitored and analysed in respect of commercial customers: and reinsurance concentration risk reinsurance is purchased from a number of providers to ensure that a diverse range of counterparties is contracted with, within the desired credit rating range.
2 Financial risk The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial assets and financial liabilities.
The Groups financial risk is concentrated within its investment portfolio and reinsurance.
The strategic asset allocation within the investment portfolio is agreed by the Investment Committee.
The Investment Committee determines policy and controls, covering such areas as safety, liquidity and performance.
The Investment Committee meets at least three times a year to evaluate risk exposure, the current strategy, associated policies and investment guidelines and to consider investment recommendations submitted to it.
Oversight of the implementation of decisions taken by the Investment Committee is via various risk fora.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 125 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The investment management objectives are: to maintain the safety of the portfolios principal both in economic terms and from a capital, accounting and reporting perspective: to maintain sufficient liquidity to provide cash requirements for operations, including in the event of a catastrophe: and to maximise the portfolios total return within the constraints of the other objectives and the limits defined by the investment guidelines and capital allocation.
2.1 Market risk Market risk is the risk associated with the adverse impact of the market risk factors movement on the Groups balance sheet due to changes in the fair value or cash flows of its assets or liabilities.
The Group is mainly exposed to the following market risk factors: interest rate risk: spread risk: foreign currency risk: and property risk.
The Group has policies and limits approved by the Board for managing the market risk exposure.
These set out the principles that the business should adhere to for managing market risk and establishing the maximum limits the Group is willing to accept having considered strategy, risk appetite and capital resources.
The Group monitors its market risk exposure on a monthly basis and has established an aggregate exposure limit consistent with its risk objective to maintain capital adequacy.
Interdependencies across risk types have also been considered within the aggregate exposure limit.
The allocation of the Groups investments across asset classes has been approved at the Investment Committee.
The Group uses its internal capital model to determine its capital requirements and market risk limits, and monitors its market risk exposure based on a 99.5% one-year value at risk measure.
The Group also applies market risk stressed scenarios testing for analysing the economic impact of specific severe market conditions.
The results of this analysis are used to enhance the understanding of market risk.
The market risk policy explicitly prohibits the use of derivatives for speculative or gearing purposes, however the Group is able to, and does, use derivatives for hedging its currency risk and interest rate risk exposures.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises mainly from its debt, floating interest rate investments and assets and liabilities exposed to fixed interest rates.
In 2012, the Group issued 500 million of subordinated debt with a 30-year maturity and fixed rate coupon for the first 10 years.
The cost of the fixed rate coupon has been hedged down to the three-month London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR floating rate.
The Group also invests in floating rate notes, whose investment income is influenced by the movement of the short-term interest rate.
A movement of the short-term interest rate will affect the expected return on the investments.
The market value of the Groups investments in fixed coupon securities is affected by the movement of the interest rates.
For the investments in US Dollar corporate bonds, the Group hedges the exposure of this portfolio to the US Dollar interest rate risk using swaps.
The derivatives reduce the duration of the portfolio to close to zero, eliminating its sensitivity to the US Dollar interest rate fluctuation.
Spread risk Spread risk represents the risk of adverse fluctuation of the value of assets due to changes in the level of spreads.
The level of spread is the difference between the risk free rate and actual rate paid on the asset, with larger spreads being associated with higher risk assets.
The Group is exposed to spread risk through its investments in investment grade bonds and securitised credit.
126 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 126 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements Foreign currency risk The exposure to currency risk is generated by the Groups investments in US Dollar corporate bonds, US Dollar securitised credit and its investment in subsidiaries.
At 31 December 2013, the Group maintained exposure to US Dollar securities through its investments in US Dollar corporate bonds and US Dollar securitised credits.
The foreign currency exposure of these investments is hedged by foreign currency forward contracts, maintaining a minimal unhedged direct currency exposure on these portfolios, as well as a low basis currency risk on the hedging.
The Group is also exposed to currency risk through its investments in subsidiaries in Italy and Germany that is, investments in equity.
In September 2013, the Group changed its currency hedging strategy on these investments to accept the long-term foreign exchange fluctuation impact on its investment in subsidiaries.
Property risk Property risk results from adverse price fluctuations on real estate investments.
At 31 December 2013, the value of these investments in property was 223.4 million 2012: 128.9 million.
The property investments are located in the UK and are subject to the asset admissibility rules as defined by the PRA.
Other potential risks beyond the ones described in the table could have an additional financial impact on the Group.
Increase decrease in total equity at Increase decrease in income statement 31 December 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Spread Impact of an increase in AFS debt securities of 100bps movement 1 in spreads 187.8 155.3 Interest rate 1,2 Impact on AFS debt securities of an increase in interest rate of 100bps 18.0 12.9 170.5 168.6 Investment property Impact of a decrease in property markets of 15% 33.5 19.3 33.5 19.3 Notes: 1.
The income statement impact on AFS debt securities is limited to floating rate bonds and interest rate derivatives used to hedge a portion of the portfolio.
The income statement is not impacted in relation to fixed rate bonds, where the coupon return is not impacted by a change in prevailing market rates, as the accounting treatment for AFS debt securities means that only the coupon received is processed through the income statement with fair value movements being recognised through total equity.
The sensitivities set out above reflect one-off impacts at 31 December with the exception of the income statement interest rate sensitivity on AFS debt securities, which projects a movement in a full years interest charge as a result of the increase in the interest rate applied to the AFS debt securities and interest rate hedges on those positions held at 31 December.
The subordinated debt is excluded from the sensitivity analysis.
The sensitivities set out above have not considered the impact of the general market changes on the value of the Groups insurance contract liabilities or retirement benefit obligations.
The sensitivities set out above exclude the impact of taxation.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 127 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The tables below analyse the maturity of the Groups derivative assets and liabilities.
At 31 December 2013 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,315.8 23.8 23.8 Interest rate swaps 370.1 1.0 1.7 8.9 9.6 Interest rate futures 561.3 7.3 7.3 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards Total 2,247.2 30.1 1.7 8.9 40.7 At 31 December 2013 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards Interest rate swaps 739.9 1.1 0.4 18.5 17.8 Interest rate futures Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 9.6 0.8 0.7 1.5 Total 749.5 0.3 1.1 18.5 19.3 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value At 31 December 2012 Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1,339.7 11.9 11.9 Interest rate swaps 505.5 1.7 23.7 25.4 Interest rate futures 121.5 0.1 0.1 0.2 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 1.2 Total 1,967.9 13.6 0.1 23.8 37.5 Notional amounts Maturity and fair value At 31 December 2012 Less than Over 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m m Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 666.5 0.2 0.2 Interest rate swaps 468.7 3.1 0.7 3.8 Interest rate futures 375.7 0.1 0.1 Designated as hedging instruments: Foreign exchange contracts forwards 228.2 2.4 2.4 Total 1,739.1 2.6 3.2 0.7 6.5 128 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 128 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements The Group has a number of open interest rate and foreign exchange derivative positions.
Collateral management arrangements are in place for significant counterparty exposures.
At 31 December 2013, 4.9 million 2012: 4.6 million in cash and a 20.0 million 2012: nil UK Gilt have been pledged by the Group to cover out of the money derivative positions.
18.0 million 2012: 0.8 million in cash and nil 2012: 1.1 million US Treasury bonds have been pledged to the Group to cover in the money derivative positions.
The terms and conditions of collateral pledged for both assets and liabilities are market standard.
When securities are pledged they are required to be readily convertible to cash, and as such there has been no policy established for the disposal of assets not readily convertible into cash.
2.2 Counterparty risk Counterparty risk arises from the potential that losses are incurred from the failure of counterparties to meet their credit obligations, due to either their failure and or their inability to pay or their unwillingness to pay amounts due.
Counterparty risk is primarily managed through the Credit Risk and Investment Forum.
The main responsibility of this forum is to ensure that all material aspects of counterparty risk within the Group are identified, monitored and measured.
The main sources of counterparty risk for the Group are: investment counterparty this arises from the investment of monies in the range of investment vehicles permitted by the investment policy: and reinsurance recoveries counterparty exposure to reinsurance counterparties arises in respect of reinsurance claims against which a reinsurance bad debt provision is assessed.
The Courts Act 2003, implemented in April 2005, gave the courts the power to award PPOs in place of lump sum awards to cover the future costs element of claims that is, loss of future earnings and or cost of future care.
PPOs have the potential to increase the ultimate value of a claim and, by their very nature, to significantly increase the length of time to reach final payment.
This has increased reinsurance counterparty risk in terms of both quantum and longevity.
The tables below analyse the carrying value of financial and insurance assets that bear counterparty risk between those assets that have not been impaired, by age in relation to due date, and those that have been impaired.
Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value past due nor Past due more than have been in the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet At 31 December 2013 m m m m m AFS debt securities 7,001.2 4.3 7,005.5 Deposits with credit institutions 1,036.5 1,036.5 Reinsurance assets 1,011.0 1,011.0 Derivative assets 40.7 40.7 Cash at bank and in hand 307.5 307.5 Insurance and other receivables 1,075.8 42.8 3.4 1,122.0 Total 10,472.7 42.8 3.4 4.3 10,523.2 Neither Past due Assets that Carrying value past due nor Past due more than have been in the balance impaired 1 90 days 90 days impaired sheet At 31 December 2012 m m m m m AFS debt securities 7,147.9 8.6 7,156.5 Deposits with credit institutions 1,951.7 1,951.7 Reinsurance assets 1,102.0 1,102.0 Derivative assets 37.5 37.5 Cash at bank and in hand 201.7 201.7 Insurance and other receivables 1,109.8 50.3 3.9 1,164.0 Total 11,550.6 50.3 3.9 8.6 11,613.4 There were no material financial assets that would have been past due or considered for impairment had the contractual terms not been renegotiated.
Within the analysis of AFS debt securities above are bank debt securities at 31 December 2013 of 1,625.2 million 2012: 1,510.8 million, that can be further analysed as: secured 135.9 million 2012: 211.1 million : unsecured 1,297.4 million 2012: 1,153.4 million : and subordinated 191.9 million 2012: 146.3 million.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 129 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued The tables below analyse the credit quality of AFS debt securities that are neither past due nor impaired.
Securitised credit is all in the form of prime mortgage backed securities, collateralised loan obligations, securitised student loans and commercial mortgage backed securities.
The tables below analyse the credit quality of financial and insurance assets that are neither past due nor impaired excluding AFS debt securities analysed above.
The table includes reinsurance exposure, after provision.
1 details the Groups approach to reinsurance counterparty risk management.
Other loans and receivables due from policyholders, agents, brokers and intermediaries generally do not have a credit rating.
130 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 130 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the potential that obligations cannot be met as they fall due as a consequence of having a timing mismatch and or an inability to raise sufficient liquid assets or cash without suffering a substantial loss on realisation.
The measurement and management of liquidity risk within the Group is undertaken within the limits and other policy parameters of the Groups liquidity risk appetite and is detailed within the liquidity risk policy and supporting minimum standards.
Compliance is monitored in respect of both the internal policy and the regulatory requirements of local regulators.
In the event that one or more liquidity stresses or scenarios crystallises, or should any other event that may impact liquidity occur, the Group ensures a rapid and controlled response to the event.
In such an event, a liquidity crisis management team will be formed to assess the nature and extent of the threat and to develop an appropriate response.
The table below analyses AFS debt securities by maturity.
The tables below analyse insurance and financial liabilities by remaining duration, in proportion to the cash flows expected to arise during that period, for each category.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 131 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Risk management continued Concentration risk Concentration risk on investments arises through excessive exposure to particular industry sectors, groups of business undertakings or similar activities.
The Group may suffer significant losses in its investment portfolio as a result of over-exposure to particular sectors engaged in similar activities or similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic, political or other conditions.
The table below analyses the distribution of AFS debt securities by geographical area.
Risk management continued The table below analyses the distribution of AFS debt securities by industry sector classifications.
2013 2012 At 31 December m % m % Basic materials 196.5 3% 199.7 3% Communications 394.1 6% 333.7 5% Consumer, cyclical 192.9 3% 137.2 2% Consumer, non-cyclical 451.0 6% 475.7 6% Diversified 82.3 1% 120.9 2% Energy 249.9 4% 273.8 4% Financial 2,163.3 31% 1,798.3 25% Industrial 274.9 4% 265.1 4% Mortgage and other asset backed securities 227.7 3% 45.2 0% Sovereign, supranational and local government 1,899.7 27% 2,635.7 37% Technology 51.5 1% 59.9 1% Transport 18.0 0% 18.1 0% Utilities 803.7 11% 793.2 11% Total 7,005.5 100% 7,156.5 100% 3.4 Capital adequacy The Group defines its capital requirement in accordance with the regulations prescribed by the PRA, other regulatory bodies and the credit rating agencies.
Capital is managed in accordance with the Groups capital management minimum standard, the objectives of which are to manage capital efficiently and maintain an appropriate level of capitalisation and solvency.
The Group determines the appropriate level of capital on the basis of a number of criteria, including its risk-based capital requirement, the maintenance of a prudent excess capital over its regulatory capital requirements and its rating agency capital.
The Group also seeks to hold capital coverage in the range of 125% to 150% of its risk-based capital requirement which is consistent with an A range credit rating.
The UK regulated insurance entities of the Group carry out an assessment of the adequacy of their overall financial resources in accordance with the PRAs ICA methodology.
The Group also monitors its financial resources with reference to the requirements of the IGD.
The UK capital requirement is calculated based on an internal risk based capital model which is calibrated, as required by the PRA, to a 99.5% confidence interval over a one-year time horizon.
The risk-based capital model also supports decision making in the business.
The capital for European entities is maintained in accordance with the local regulatory solvency requirements.
The Group manages its subsidiaries on an ongoing basis to ensure that capital resources exceed regulatory minima in accordance with its risk appetite.
The Group has an IGD surplus at 31 December 2013 of approximately 1.8 billion 2012: 1.8 billion.
The Groups capital requirements and solvency position are produced and presented to the Board on a regular basis.
134 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 134 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements 4.
Segmental analysis The Directors manage the Group primarily by product type and present the segmental analysis on that basis.
The segments reflect the management structure whereby a member of the Executive Committee is accountable to the Chief Executive Officer for each of the following operating segments: Motor This segment consists of personal car insurance cover together with the associated legal expenses business.
The Group sells motor insurance through its own brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege and through partnership brands directly to customers or through PCWs.
As a result, the Group has a brand and product offering that covers most major retail customer segments for motor insurance in the UK.
Home This segment consists of the underwriting of home insurance together with associated legal expenses cover.
The Group sells home insurance through its own brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege and through partnerships or PCWs.
The Groups brand and product offering covers most of the major retail customer segments for home insurance in the UK.
Rescue and other personal lines This segment consists of the underwriting of rescue and recovery insurance products and other personal lines business, including travel, pet, life conducted by Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited which was sold on 28 November 2013 and creditor.
The Group sells rescue and recovery insurance as a stand-alone product through the Green Flag brand or as an insurance add-on to all Group own brand and certain partner motor policies, or as part of packaged bank accounts sold through our bank partnership channel.
Rescue insurance policies range from basic roadside rescue to a full Europe-wide breakdown recovery service.
The Group sells its other personal lines insurance through its own brands Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege and through partnerships.
Commercial This segment consists of the underwriting of commercial insurance for micro businesses and SMEs in the UK.
The Group sells commercial products through its own brands NIG and Direct Line for Business and through its partnership with RBS and NatWest.
International This segment consists primarily of personal motor car insurance cover sold in Italy and Germany using a multi-channel strategy through the Direct Line brand and through partnerships and PCWs.
Certain income and charges are not allocated to the specific operating segments above as they are considered by management to be outside underlying business activities by virtue of their one-off incidence, size or nature.
Such income and charges are categorised as either run-off, described below, or restructuring and other one-off costs.
Run-off The segment consists of two principal lines, policies previously written through the personal lines broker channel and Tesco business.
These residual businesses are now in run-off.
No inter-segment transactions occurred in the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
If any transaction were to occur, transfer prices between operating segments would be set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
Segment income, expenses and results will include those transfers between business segments which will then be eliminated on consolidation.
For each operating segment, there is no individual policyholder or customer that represents 10% or more of the Groups total revenue.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 135 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
The Groups revenue and results for the year ended 2013 relating to the Life business which was disposed of on 28 November 2013 was recorded in two segments: Rescue and other personal lines net earned premium: 11.8 million, net insurance claims: 1.8 million and operating profit: 6.4 million and Run-off net earned premium: 2.8 million, net insurance claims: 0.7 million and operating profit: 1.2 million.
Restructuring costs are costs which have been incurred in respect of business activities which have a material effect on the nature and focus of the Groups operations.
One off costs are costs which are non-recurring in nature.
The Groups revenue and results for the year ended 2012 relating to the Life business which was disposed of on 28 November 2013 was recorded in two segments: Rescue and other personal lines net earned premium: 18.1 million, net insurance claims: 1.6 million and operating profit: 8.1 million and Run-off net earned premium: 3.8 million, net insurance claims: 0.5 million and operating profit: 1.3 million.
The tables below analyse the Groups assets and liabilities by reportable segment.
The reportable segment net assets do not represent the Groups view of the capital requirements for its operating segments.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 137 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Net earned premium 2013 2012 m m Gross earned premium: Gross written premium 3,834.5 4,001.4 Movement in unearned premium reserve 61.8 47.1 3,896.3 4,048.5 Reinsurance premium ceded: Premium payable 368.0 365.4 Movement in reinsurance unearned premium reserve 5.0 38.9 373.0 326.5 Total 3,523.3 3,722.0 6.
Investment return 2013 2012 m m Investment income: Interest income on AFS debt securities 169.9 172.5 Other investment funds income 3.1 Cash and cash equivalent interest income 7.3 19.3 Rental income from investment property 11.4 4.4 188.6 199.3 Net realised gains: AFS debt securities 25.7 66.3 Other investment funds 23.2 Derivatives 21.5 17.8 47.2 107.3 Net unrealised losses gains: Derivatives 22.2 20.0 Investment property note 18 7.5 4.8 14.7 24.8 Total 221.1 281.8 The table below analyses the realised and unrealised derivatives included in investment return.
2013 2012 Realised Unrealised Realised Unrealised m m m m Derivative gains losses Foreign exchange forward contracts 21.2 12.0 24.3 11.7 Associated foreign exchange risk 2.0 33.3 2.9 32.6 Net gains losses on foreign exchange forward contracts 23.2 21.3 21.4 20.9 Interest rate derivatives 0.8 19.6 3.8 2.1 Associated interest rate risk 0.9 20.5 0.2 3.0 Net losses gains on interest rate derivatives 1.7 0.9 3.6 0.9 Total 21.5 22.2 17.8 20.0 138 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 138 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements 7.
Other operating income 2013 2012 m m 1 Solicitors referral fee income 6.9 21.2 Vehicle replacement referral income 15.7 17.5 Revenue from vehicle recovery and repair services 31.8 25.9 Fee income from insurance intermediary services 1.7 1.9 Other income 6.3 6.8 Total 62.4 73.3 Note: 1.
Following changes to LASPO the payment of referral fees in personal injury cases were prohibited with effect from 1 April 2013.
Net insurance claims 2013 Gross Reinsurance Net m m m Current accident year claims paid 1,306.2 90.5 1,215.7 Prior accident years claims paid 1,566.6 75.8 1,490.8 Movement in insurance liabilities 538.0 14.2 552.2 Total 2,334.8 180.5 2,154.3 2012 Gross Reinsurance Net m m m Current accident year claims paid 1,360.0 71.3 1,288.7 Prior accident years claims paid 1,612.1 55.6 1,556.5 Movement in insurance liabilities 96.8 324.1 420.9 Total 2,875.3 451.0 2,424.3 Claims handling expenses for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 246.8 million 2012: 290.3 million have been included in the claims figures above.
A decrease in the liability adequacy provision for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 4.3 million 2012: 0.7 million increase has been included in the movement in claims provision.
Commission expenses 2013 2012 m m Commission expenses 333.3 316.5 Expenses incurred under profit participations 59.1 136.4 1 Total 392.4 452.9 Note: 1.
Includes commission expenses for the Run-off segment for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 0.8 million 2012: 115.4 million.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 139 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Operating expenses 2013 2012 m m Staff costs 395.3 416.7 Marketing 184.2 203.1 Management fees 145.5 Depreciation 21.0 13.1 Amortisation and impairment of other intangible assets 37.2 40.7 Other operating expenses 290.6 228.4 Total 928.3 1,047.5 Staff costs attributable to claims handling activities are allocated to the cost of insurance claims.
Management fees were in respect of expenses recharged from RBS Group up until 30 June 2012.
Management fees were charged on an arms length basis.
From 1 July 2012 the equivalent costs have been incurred directly by the Group and included in staff costs and other operating expenses.
The table below analyses restructuring and other one-off costs included in operating expenses.
Staff costs include redundancy costs for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 40.9 million 2012: 34.6 million.
The table below analyses the average monthly number of persons employed by the Group.
2012 includes a one-off retirement benefit contribution of 31.3 million in respect of separation from RBS Group see note 32.
140 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 140 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements The table below analyses Auditors remuneration.
2013 2012 m m Fees payable for the audit of: The Companys annual accounts Deloitte LLP 0.4 0.2 The Companys subsidiaries Deloitte LLP 1.6 1.3 The Companys subsidiaries Mazars S. p. A 0.1 0.1 Total audit fees 2.1 1.6 Fees payable to Deloitte LLP for non-audit services: Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.3 Taxation advisory services 0.1 1 Corporate finance services 4.1 Total non-audit services 0.1 4.5 Total 2.2 6.1 Note: 1.
Fees incurred for corporate finance services in the year ended 31 December 2012 relate to the divestment of the Group from RBS Group.
Aggregate Directors emoluments The table below analyses the total amount of Directors remuneration in accordance with Schedule 5 to the Accounting Regulations.
2013 2012 m m Salaries, fees, bonuses and benefits in kind 3.2 2.5 Gains on exercise of share options 0.5 0.2 Defined contribution pension scheme contributions 0.1 Total 3.8 2.7 Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
At 31 December 2013, one Director 2012: one had retirement benefits accruing under the defined contribution pension scheme in respect of qualifying service.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, two Directors exercised share options 2012: one Director exercised share options in relation to RBS Group LTIP and incentive deferral plans.
Finance costs 2013 2012 m m 1 Interest expense on subordinated dated notes 37.7 26.7 Other interest expense 2.0 Total 37.7 28.7 Note: 1.
As described in note 29, on 27 April 2012 the Group issued subordinated dated notes with a nominal value of 500 million at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest on the subordinated dated notes for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 bps which increased to 707 bps with effect from 29 July 2013.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 141 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Tax charge 2013 2012 m m Current taxation: Charge for the year 102.5 61.7 Under over provision in respect of prior year 1.8 1.0 104.3 60.7 Deferred taxation note 13 : Charge for the year 1.6 13.9 Under over provision in respect of prior year 5.2 9.8 6.8 4.1 Current taxation 104.3 60.7 Deferred taxation note 13 6.8 4.1 Tax charge for the year 111.1 64.8 The following table analyses the difference between the actual income tax charge and the expected income tax charge computed by applying the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 23.25% 2012: 24.5%.
2013 2012 m m Profit before tax 423.9 249.1 Expected tax charge 98.6 61.0 Effects of: Higher tax rates on overseas earnings 0.7 3.0 Realised gains on disposal of subsidiary 2.8 Re-measurement of deferred tax asset 3.7 Disallowable expenses 4.7 9.6 Non-taxable items 0.5 0.7 Effect of change in UK taxation rate 0.3 2.7 Under over provision in respect of prior year 7.0 10.8 Tax charge for the year 111.1 64.8 Effective income tax rate 26.2% 26.0% Note: 1.
The UK Government enacted a reduction in the UK corporation tax rate from 24% to 23% effective from 1 April 2013 in the Finance Act 2012 and in the Finance Act 2013 enacted further reductions to 21% effective from 1 April 2014 and 20% effective from 1 April 2015.
As a consequence the closing deferred tax assets and liabilities have been recognised at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets or liabilities are settled.
The impact of these changes on the tax charge for the year is set out in the table above.
2013 2012. m m Per balance sheet: Current tax assets 1.3 5.5 Current tax liabilities 21.1 34.5 142 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 142 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements 13.
Deferred tax The table below analyses the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon.
Provisions and Depreciation other Retirement in excess of Nontemporary benefit capital distributable Investment Share based 2 1 differences obligations allowances reserve properties payments Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2012 22.5 0.6 0.9 8.0 14.8 Credit charge to income statement 5.2 0.6 0.5 7.4 0.8 4.1 Charge credit to other comprehensive income 6.1 0.6 5.5 Other movements 3.6 3.6 At 31 December 2012 18.0 0.6 0.4 15.4 0.8 1.6 Charge credit to income 4.5 0.5 0.7 3.5 1.5 2.5 6.8 statement Credit to other comprehensive 2.4 1.5 3.9 income Credit direct to equity 0.2 0.2 Other movements 1.4 0.7 0.4 1.1 At 31 December 2013 17.3 0.4 0.4 18.5 1.5 1.9 Notes: 1.
A deferred tax asset of 1.2 million at 31 December 2012 was not recognised in respect of capital losses arising on the revaluation of investment property.
A deferred tax asset of 3.7 million at 31 December 2013 has not been recognised in respect of provisions and other timing differences in Italy.
2013 2012 m m Per balance sheet: Deferred tax assets 19.3 22.5 Deferred tax liabilities 19.3 20.9 1.6 14.
Dividends 2013 2012 m m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period: Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 8.0p 2011: nil per share 120.0 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 4.2p 2012: 66.6p per share 62.8 1,000.0 First special interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 4.0p 2012: nil per share 59.9 242.7 1,000.0 Second special interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 4.0p 2012: nil per share 60.0 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 8.4p 2012: 8.0p per share 126.0 120.0 The proposed final dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2014 and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The trustees of the employee share trusts, waived their entitlement to dividends on shares, which are not held for the benefit of employees except for free share awards which reduced the total dividend paid by 0.3 million 2012: nil.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 143 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 15.
Earnings and net assets per share, return on equity Earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period.
Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company and the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares.
2013 2012 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 312.8 184.3 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,495.4 1,499.4 Basic earnings per share pence 20.9 12.3 Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Company by the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period adjusted for the dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The Company has share options and contingently issuable shares as categories of dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
2013 2012 m m Earnings attributable to owners of the Company 312.8 184.3 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,495.4 1,499.4 Effect of dilutive potential of share options and contingently issuable shares millions 5.8 0.6 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share millions 1,501.2 1,500.0 Diluted earnings per share pence 20.8 12.3 Net asset value and tangible net asset value per share Net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the end of the period.
Ordinary Shares in issue exclude shares held by employee share trusts at 31 December 2013 of 5,204,771 2012: 2,848,991.
Tangible net asset value per share is calculated as total shareholders equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the end of the period.
The table below analyses net asset and tangible net asset value per share.
2013 2012 At 31 December m m Net assets 2,790.0 2,831.6 Goodwill and other intangible assets 500.1 421.5 Tangible net assets 2,289.9 2,410.1 Number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,500.0 1,500.0 Shares held by employee share trusts millions 5.2 2.8 Closing number of Ordinary Shares in issue millions 1,494.8 1,497.2 Net asset value per share pence 186.6 189.1 Tangible net asset value per share pence 153.2 161.0 144 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 144 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements Return on equity The table below details the calculation of return on equity.
2013 2012 m m Profit for the year 312.8 184.3 Opening shareholders equity 2,831.6 3,612.8 Closing shareholders equity 2,790.0 2,831.6 Average shareholders equity 2,810.8 3,222.2 Return on equity 11.1% 5.7% 16.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Other intangible Goodwill assets Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 345.2 537.0 882.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.6 0.9 1.5 Additions 96.6 96.6 Fully utilised 282.1 282.1 Impairment losses 21.2 21.2 At 31 December 2012 344.6 329.4 674.0 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.8 0.8 Additions 115.5 115.5 Disposal of subsidiary 1.8 1.8 At 31 December 2013 342.8 445.7 788.5 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 January 2012 134.2 382.2 516.4 Charge for the year 30.0 30.0 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.6 0.7 1.3 Fully utilised 282.1 282.1 Impairment losses 10.5 10.5 At 31 December 2012 133.6 118.9 252.5 Charge for the year 37.2 37.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.5 0.5 Disposal of subsidiary 1.8 1.8 At 31 December 2013 131.8 156.6 288.4 Carrying amount At 31 December 2013 211.0 289.1 500.1 At 31 December 2012 211.0 210.5 421.5 Goodwill arose on the acquisition of U K Insurance Limited 141.0 million and Churchill Insurance Company Limited 70.0 million, which is allocated across Motor, Home, Rescue and other personal lines and Commercial.
The Groups goodwill is reviewed annually at 30 September for impairment by comparing the recoverable amount of each CGU to which goodwill has been allocated with its carrying value and updated at each reporting date in the event of indicators of impairment.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 145 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued The table below analyses the goodwill of the Group by CGU.
2013 2012 m m Motor 126.4 126.4 Home 45.8 45.8 Rescue and other personal lines 28.7 28.7 Commercial 10.1 10.1 Total 211.0 211.0 There have been no impairments in goodwill in the year ended 31 December 2013 2012:nil.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGU fair value less the costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is the present value of expected future cash flows from the CGU.
Fair value is the amount obtainable for the sale of the CGU in an arms length transaction between knowledgeable and willing parties.
The recoverable amounts of all CGUs at 30 September were based on the value in use test, using the Groups five-year strategic plan.
The long-term growth rates have been based on GDP rates adjusted for inflation.
The risk discount rates incorporate observable market long-term government bond yields and average industry betas adjusted for an appropriate risk premium based on independent analysis.
The table below details the recoverable amounts in excess of carrying value for the CGUs where goodwill is held.
Sensitivity: Impact in CGU Assumptions recoverable amount of a: Terminal Pre-tax Recoverable 1% decrease in 1% increase in 1% decrease Growth discount amount in excess terminal growth pre-tax discount in forecast 1 Rate rate of carrying value rate rate pre-tax profit % % m m m m Motor 3.0 11.9 714.3 176.7 246.2 24.3 Home 3.0 11.9 1,339.9 119.9 165.4 15.5 Rescue and other personal lines 3.0 11.9 493.4 48.6 67.0 6.2 Commercial 3.0 11.9 74.0 32.7 45.3 4.3 Note: 1.
Reflects a 1% decrease to the profit for each year of the five-year forecast.
146 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 146 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements 17.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold land Other and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost At 1 January 2012 4.0 85.1 89.1 Additions 0.4 63.3 63.7 Disposals 9.2 9.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 1.2 1.2 At 31 December 2012 4.4 138.0 142.4 Additions 10.9 28.2 39.1 Disposals 6.3 6.3 Disposal of subsidiary 0.2 0.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.3 0.3 At 31 December 2013 15.3 160.0 175.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 January 2012 0.8 41.4 42.2 Depreciation charge for the year 0.1 13.0 13.1 Disposals 4.4 4.4 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.9 0.9 At 31 December 2012 0.9 49.1 50.0 Depreciation charge for the year 0.2 20.8 21.0 Disposals 3.4 3.4 Impairment losses 5.5 5.5 Disposal of subsidiary 0.2 0.2 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 0.1 0.1 At 31 December 2013 1.1 71.9 73.0 Carrying amount At 31 December 2013 14.2 88.1 102.3 At 31 December 2012 3.5 88.9 92.4 18.
Investment property 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 128.9 69.5 Additions 87.0 133.7 Disposals 69.5 Increase decrease in fair value during the year 7.5 4.8 At 31 December 223.4 128.9 Investment properties were purchased during the year to provide an investment return over the long term in accordance with the Groups investment strategy.
These properties are managed, on behalf of the Group, by a property services company.
The investment properties are measured at fair value which was arrived at on the basis of a valuation carried out at the balance sheet date by independent valuers.
The valuation conforms to international valuation standards.
The fair value was determined using a methodology based on recent market transactions for similar properties, which have been adjusted for the specific characteristics of each property within the portfolio.
This approach to valuation is consistent with the methodology used in the year ended 31 December 2012.
There has been no change to the valuation technique during the year.
All investment properties are classified as level 3 under the fair value reporting hierarchy as described in note 2.3.
Fair value equates to carrying value.
The lease agreements are drawn up in line with local practice and the Group has no exposure to leases that include contingent rents.
Disposals in the year ended 31 December 2012 comprised freehold property occupied by RBS Group under operating leases.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 147 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Subsidiaries The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Group are shown below.
Their capital consists of ordinary shares which are unlisted.
Direct Line Versicherung AG, DL Insurance Services Limited and U K Insurance Limited are owned directly by Direct Line Insurance Group plc.
Direct Line Insurance S. p. A is owned indirectly through intermediary holding companies.
All subsidiaries are included in the Groups consolidated financial information and have an accounting reference date of 31 December.
Type of Place of incorporation ownership interest Proportion of Name of subsidiary and operation share type voting power held Principal activity Direct Line Insurance S. p. A Italy Ordinary 100% General insurance Direct Line Versicherung AG Germany Ordinary 100% General insurance DL Insurance Services Limited Great Britain Ordinary 100% Management services U K Insurance Limited Great Britain Ordinary 100% General insurance The above information is provided in relation to principal related undertakings as permitted by Section 410 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
Full information on all related undertakings is included in the Annual Return available from Companies House by visiting www.
The Group sold 100% of the share capital of Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited on 28 November 2013.
The fair value of the identifiable assets sold was 159.4 million including cash and cash equivalents of 20.5 million and the fair value of identifiable liabilities was 132.1 million.
The total cash consideration received was 39.3 million generating a profit on disposal of 12.0 million.
The Life business generated a gross earned premium of 35.9 million up to the point of sale full year 2012: 46.6 million, a net earned premium of 14.6 million full year 2012 21.9 million and operating profit of 7.6 million full year 2012: 9.4 million.
The Group did not dispose of any other subsidiaries in the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: no subsidiary disposals.
The Group acquired 100% of the share capital of Direct Line Versicherung AG on 2 April 2012.
The fair value of identifiable assets acquired was 368.7 million including cash and cash equivalents of 39.7 million and the fair value of identifiable liabilities assumed was 263.5 million.
The total cash consideration paid was 105.2 million.
Reinsurance assets 2013 2012 m m Reinsurers share of general insurance liabilities including unearned premium reserve 1,064.2 1,068.0 Impairment provision 53.2 60.7 1,011.0 1,007.3 Reinsurers share of life insurance liabilities 94.7 Total 1,011.0 1,102.0 Movements in reinsurance asset impairment provision 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 60.7 53.9 Additional provision 3.5 7.6 Utilisation of provision 2.0 Release to income statement 9.0 0.8 At 31 December 53.2 60.7 21.
Deferred acquisition costs 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 327.6 310.5 Net decrease increase in the year 7.3 18.5 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 1.2 1.4 At 31 December 321.5 327.6 148 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 148 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements 22.
Insurance and other receivables 2013 2012 m m Receivables arising from insurance and reinsurance contracts: Due from policyholders 927.9 965.3 Impairment of policyholder receivables 7.6 9.7 Due from agents, brokers and intermediaries 53.4 106.6 Impairment of agent, broker and intermediary receivables 0.5 0.3 Due from reinsurers 19.3 34.8 Other loans and receivables: Accrued interest 1.2 2.0 Receivables from related parties 0.9 5.1 1 Other debtors 127.4 60.2 Total 1,122.0 1,164.0 Note: 1.
Includes 42.1 million in respect of a deposit for the purchase of owner occupied property 2012: nil.
Derivative financial instruments 2013 2012 m m Derivative assets At fair value through the income statement 40.7 37.5 1 Total 40.7 37.5 Derivative liabilities At fair value through the income statement 17.8 4.1 Designated as hedging instruments 1.5 2.4 1 Total 19.3 6.5 Note: 1.
Derivative financial instruments as shown above are all classified as level 2 under the fair value hierarchy as described in note 2.3.
These are measured at fair value, which equates to carrying value.
Financial investments 2013 2012 m m AFS debt securities Corporate 4,878.1 4,475.6 Supranational 365.7 521.8 Local government 134.5 271.1 Sovereign 1,399.5 1,842.8 Securitised credit 227.7 45.2 Total 7,005.5 7,156.5 AFS debt securities Fixed interest rate 6,468.4 6,854.2 Floating interest rate 537.1 302.3 Total 7,005.5 7,156.5 Loans and receivables Deposits with credit institutions with maturities in excess of three months 435.7 645.0 Total 7,441.2 7,801.5 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 149 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Financial investments continued The following table analyses financial instruments held at fair value, which equates to their carrying value, by level of the fair value hierarchy.
Please refer to note 2.3 for details of the fair value hierarchy.
The Group held no level 3 securities at 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
Cash and cash equivalents 2013 2012 m m Cash at bank and in hand 307.5 201.7 1 Short-term deposits with credit institutions 600.8 1,306.7 Total 908.3 1,508.4 Note: 1.
Short-term deposits included nil 2012: 492.5 million held by the Group in Global Treasury Funds PLC an open ended umbrella investment company with variable capital incorporated with limited liability in Ireland.
RBS Asset Management Dublin Limited is the appointed manager to the fund.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits with credit institutions for the year ended 31 December 2013 was 0.41% 2012: 0.35% and average maturity was 14 days 2012: 11 days.
The following table details cash and bank overdrafts for the purposes of the cash flow statement.
Assets held for sale 2013 2012 m m Freehold property held for sale 1.0 1.0 The Group intends to dispose of freehold property it no longer utilises at Lumbry Park, Alton.
At 31 December 2013, the property is being actively marketed, with no impairment losses recognised in the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
Share capital 2013 2012 Number Number million million Issued and fully paid: equity shares Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each 1,500.0 1,500.0 On 31 August 2012, Board and shareholder resolutions were approved to subdivide the share capital of Direct Line Insurance Group plc from 1.5 billion Ordinary Shares of 1 each to 1.5 billion Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each and 1.5 billion deferred shares of 90 pence each.
The deferred shares were then transferred back to the Company by its then parent, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, for no value and immediately cancelled by the Company.
This cancellation has created a non-distributable capital redemption reserve in the Company of 1,350.0 million.
150 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 150 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements The Group satisfies share-based payments under the Groups share plans primarily through shares purchased in the market and held by employee share trusts.
At 31 December 2013, 5,204,771 Ordinary Shares 2012: 2,848,991 were owned by the employee share trusts with a cost of 10.2 million 2012: 5.0 million, with an undertaking to satisfy the awards of shares in the Company under the Groups share plans.
These shares were purchased by the employee share trusts and are carried at cost.
At 31 December 2013, they had an aggregate nominal value of 0.5 million 2012: 0.3 million and a market value of 13.0 million 2012: 6.2 million.
Other reserves Movements in the revaluation reserve for AFS investments Other AFS investment Debt funds securities Total m m m At 1 January 2012 12.7 124.4 137.1 Revaluation during the year gross 6.3 103.6 109.9 Revaluation during the year tax 1.5 19.1 20.6 Realised gains gross 23.2 66.3 89.5 Realised gains tax 5.7 16.2 21.9 At 31 December 2012 158.8 158.8 Revaluation during the year gross 108.2 108.2 Revaluation during the year tax 27.7 27.7 Realised gains gross 23.9 23.9 Realised gains tax 5.8 5.8 Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary gross 1.8 1.8 Realised gain on disposal of subsidiary tax 0.4 0.4 At 31 December 2013 58.8 58.8 Movements in the non-distributable reserve 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 63.2 30.3 Transfer from retained earnings 29.6 32.9 At 31 December 92.8 63.2 The non-distributable reserve relates to a UK statutory claims equalisation reserve that is calculated in accordance with the rules of the PRA.
Subordinated liabilities 2013 2012 m m Subordinated dated notes 486.6 529.0 Undated subordinated loans 258.5 Total 486.6 787.5 The subordinated dated notes were issued on 27 April 2012 at a fixed rate of 9.25%.
On the same date, the Group also entered into a 10-year hedge to exchange the fixed rate of interest for a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 706 bps.
During 2013, a credit value adjustment was made to the interest rate hedge to reflect the market value of counterparty credit risk resulting from the majority divestment from RBS Group.
This has resulted in an increase in the floating rate to three-month LIBOR plus a spread of 707 bps with effect from 29 July 2013.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 151 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Subordinated liabilities continued The nominal 500 million bonds have a redemption date of 27 April 2042.
The Group has the option to repay the notes on specific dates from 27 April 2022.
If the notes are not repaid on that date, the rate of interest would be reset at a rate of the six-month LIBOR plus 7.91%.
The notes are unsecured, subordinated obligations of the Group, and rank pari passu without any preference among themselves.
In the event of a winding-up or of bankruptcy, they are to be repaid only after the claims of all other creditors have been met.
There have been no defaults on any of the notes during the year.
The Group has the option to defer interest payments on the notes but to date has not exercised this right.
The aggregate fair value of subordinated dated notes as at 31 December 2013 is 625.4 million 2012: 597.6 million.
The undated subordinated loans were fully repaid on 8 January 2013.
Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and reinsurance assets continued Movement in unearned premium reserve Gross Reinsurance Net m m m At 1 January 2012 1,931.6 59.0 1,872.6 Net decrease in the year 47.1 38.9 86.0 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 11.6 11.6 At 31 December 2012 1,872.9 97.9 1,775.0 Net decrease increase in the year 61.8 5.0 56.8 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 7.6 0.8 6.8 At 31 December 2013 1,818.7 93.7 1,725.0 31.
Life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 2013 2012 m m Gross life insurance Long-term insurance contracts: With fixed and guaranteed terms 102.9 Benefits outstanding 4.3 Total 107.2 Reinsurers share of life insurance Long-term insurance contracts: With fixed and guaranteed terms 91.1 Benefits outstanding 3.6 Total 94.7 Net life insurance Long-term insurance contracts: With fixed and guaranteed terms 11.8 Benefits outstanding 0.7 Total 12.5 Movements in life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets Gross Reinsurance Net m m m At 1 January 2012 93.0 78.6 14.4 Provisions in respect of new and existing business 42.8 24.7 18.1 Expected change in existing business provisions 20.3 18.3 2.0 Variance between actual and expected experience 4.7 6.1 10.8 Other movements 7.9 7.9 At 31 December 2012 102.9 91.1 11.8 Provisions in respect of new and existing business 34.5 21.4 13.1 Expected change in existing business provisions 19.8 17.3 2.5 Variance between actual and expected experience 3.0 5.0 8.0 Other movements 3.7 3.7 1 Disposal 110.9 100.2 10.7 At 31 December 2013 Note: 1.
The Groups Life business was sold on 28 November 2013.
156 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 156 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements 32.
Retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution scheme The pension charge in respect of the defined contribution scheme for the year ended 31 December 2013 was 25.3 million 2012: 26.0 million.
In addition, certain employees of the Group who were previously members of the RBS Group defined benefit pension scheme transferred to the Groups defined contribution scheme in 2012.
As a result of standardising employment terms for all Group employees, which included changes to the employment terms of a small number of Group employees who were members of the RBS Group defined benefit pension scheme, the Group crystallised a debt under section 75 of the UK Pensions Act 1995.
Consequently the Group was required to pay into the RBS Groups defined benefit pension scheme in which those employees ceased to participate as a result of a deficit in that scheme.
The debt was calculated based on the amount needed to secure Direct Line Groups share of the pension liabilities in the pension scheme with an insurance company.
An amount of 31.3 million was paid to the RBS Group pension scheme on 29 June 2012 in full and final settlement.
Defined benefit scheme The Groups defined benefit pension scheme was closed in 2003 although the Group remains the sponsoring employer for obligations to current and deferred pensioners based on qualifying years service and final salaries.
The defined benefit scheme is legally separated from the Group with trustees who are required by law to act in the interest of the scheme and of all the relevant stakeholders.
The trustees of the pension scheme are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the scheme.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligations at 31 December 2013 is 20 years 2012: 20 years using accounting assumptions.
The table below sets out the principal assumptions in respect of the defined benefit scheme.
2013 2012 % % Rate of increase in pension payment 2.1 2.1 Rate of increase of deferred pensions 2.6 2.1 Discount rate 4.4 4.5 Inflation rate 3.5 2.8 No assumption has been made for salary growth as there are no obligations in the scheme that are linked to future increases in salaries.
Post-retirement mortality assumptions 2013 2012 Life expectancy at age 60 now: Males 88.4 87.5 Females 90.1 89.4 Life expectancy at age 60 in 20 years time: Males 90.3 89.5 Females 92.2 91.5 The table below analyses the market value of the scheme assets by type of asset.
2013 2012 m m Equities 3.5 13.9 Index-linked bonds 13.1 10.2 Government bonds 5.7 6.5 Corporate bonds 42.9 32.5 Other 0.8 0.6 Total market value of assets 66.0 63.7 Virtually all debt and equity instruments have quoted prices on active markets.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 157 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movement in net pension deficit surplus Present value of Fair value of defined benefit Net pension scheme assets obligations surplus deficit m m m At 1 January 2012 56.7 54.1 2.6 Income statement: 1,2 Net interest income cost 3.5 2.7 0.8 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial gains losses arising from experience adjustments 2.2 0.1 2.1 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 5.5 5.5 Contributions by employer 2.5 2.5 Benefits paid 1.2 1.2 At 31 December 2012 63.7 61.2 2.5 Income statement: 1,2 Net interest income cost 2.3 2.7 0.4 Statement of comprehensive income: Actuarial losses arising from experience adjustments 1.3 0.2 1.5 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 4.4 4.4 Actuarial losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 1.0 1.0 Contributions by employer 2.8 2.8 Benefits paid 1.5 1.5 At 31 December 2013 66.0 68.0 2.0 Notes: 1.
The income cost in the income statement has been included under other operating expenses.
In accordance with IAS 19 Employee benefits revised the net interest cost has been calculated by applying the discount rate to the deficit 2012: surplus in the scheme.
The change in IAS 19 set out in Adoption of new and revised standards in note 1, if applied to the Groups result for the year ended 31 December 2012, would have resulted in a decrease in the net interest income to the income statement of 0.6 million.
A charge of this amount has been made to net interest income in the income statement and a credit in the statement of comprehensive income for year ended 31 December 2013.
The table below details the history of the scheme for the current and prior years.
2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligations 68.0 61.2 54.1 54.5 60.8 Fair value of scheme assets 66.0 63.7 56.7 54.4 47.2 Net deficit surplus 2.0 2.5 2.6 0.1 13.6 Experience adjustment losses gains on scheme liabilities 0.2 0.1 0.4 0.5 2.6 Experience adjustment losses gains on scheme assets 1.3 2.2 2.6 3.1 5.4 158 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 158 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements Sensitivity analysis The table below provides a sensitivity analysis of the potential impact of a change in a single factor with all other assumptions left unchanged.
This sensitivity analysis has been selected to reflect the changes to discounted cash flows as a result of changes to the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality assumptions.
The methodology adopted involves actuarial techniques.
2013 2012 Impact on Impact on present value present value Impact on of scheme Impact on of scheme pension cost obligations pension cost obligations m m m m Discount rate 0.25% increase in discount rate 0.2 3.5 0.2 3.0 0.25% decrease in discount rate 0.1 3.6 0.1 3.2 Inflation rate 0.25% increase in inflation rate 1.8 0.1 3.1 0.25% decrease in inflation rate 1.8 0.1 3.0 Life expectancy 1 year increase in life expectancy 0.1 1.5 0.1 1.5 1 year decrease in life expectancy 0.1 1.6 0.1 1.5 The most recent funding valuation of the defined benefit scheme took place at 1 October 2011.
The Group has agreed to make contributions of 2.8 million per annum from 2013 to 2016 to meet the funding deficit, and does not anticipate any material change to the level of contributions before the next valuation, which is due on 1 October 2014.
Share-based payments The Group operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans in the form of free shares awards, a Long Term Incentive Plan, Direct Line Share Incentive Plans and an Annual Incentive Plan, details of which are set out below together with their financial impact: Free share awards During the year ended 31 December 2012, upon listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Group offered all employees a free share award granting shares to the value of 250 to each eligible employee free of charge.
These awards have no performance criteria attached, vest on the third anniversary of the award grant date subject to completion of three years continuing employment or on leaving employment in certain circumstances and will be satisfied using market-purchased shares.
The number of shares initially granted was 1.9 million with an estimated fair value at grant of 3.9 million.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Senior management are eligible to participate in the LTIP and awards are granted in the form of nil-cost options.
Under the plan, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the following: continued employment by the Group and achieving predefined performance conditions associated with TSR and RoTE.
Conditional awards were made in the year ended 31 December 2013 over 3.0 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value at grant of 4.9 million in March and 2.5 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value at grant of 4.3 million in August 2012: 3.2 million Ordinary Shares with an estimated fair value at grant of 5.0 million in November under the Groups LTIP.
The estimated fair value of the LTIP share awards with market-based performance conditions was calculated using the MonteCarlo simulation model.
The table below details the inputs into the model.
2013 2012 Weighted average assumptions during the year: Share price 208p 194p Exercise price 0p 0p Volatility of Company share price 26% 27% Average comparator volatility 32% 32% Expected life 3 years 3 years Risk-free rate 0.5% 0.3% Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 159 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Share-based payments continued As historic data is not available for the Group, expected volatility was determined by calculating the median historic volatility for a group of comparable companies using daily share price data over a period commensurate with the expected life assumption.
These comparable companies are classified as being in the insurance sector in the FTSE 350.
Plan participants are entitled to receive additional shares in respect of dividends paid to shareholders over the vesting period.
Therefore no deduction has been made from the fair value of awards in respect of dividends.
Expected life was based on the contractual life of the awards and adjusted based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
RBS Group LTIP awards Prior to October 2012, certain employees benefited from share-based awards originally granted by RBS Group.
The expense incurred in respect of awards granted by RBS Group to Direct Line Group employees is not material and has been included within operating expenses.
RBS Group has indemnified Direct Line Group for all future costs in respect of RBS Group share-based awards made to Direct Line Group employees.
All costs in respect of these share awards for Direct Line Group employees have since been borne by RBS Group.
The RBS Group Remuneration Committee has agreed that RBS Group will be responsible for the settlement of the following outstanding LTIP awards, with no charge to be made to Direct Line Group: LTIP awards in the year ended 31 December 2011 expected to vest in March 2014 LTIP awards in the year ended 31 December 2012 expected to vest in March 2015 The 2011 and 2012 LTIP awards will be settled with Company Ordinary Shares currently held by RBS Group.
Details of the RBS Group legacy share based payments are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 98.
Direct Line Share Incentive Plans The HMRC approved Buy-As-You-Earn Plan in the UK and an International plan, mirroring the UK plan for Italy, were both launched during the year ended 31 December 2013.
The International plan is being further rolled out to employees in Germany and it is expected that this process will be completed in 2014.
The Groups Share Incentive Plans entitle employees to purchase shares from pre-tax pay for between 10 and 125 per month, or Euro equivalent, and receive one matching share for every two shares purchased.
Since commencement of the Share Incentive Plans during the year ended 31 December 2013, matching share awards have been granted over 0.3 million Ordinary Shares in relation to these schemes in the year with an estimated fair value of 0.6 million.
The fair value of each matching share award is estimated using the market value at the date of grant.
Under the Share Incentive Plans, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon the following: continued employment by the Group or on leaving employment in certain circumstances and continued ownership of the associated purchased shares up to the point of vesting.
Annual Incentive Plan Executive Directors and certain members of senior management are eligible for awards under the AIP, of which at least 40% is granted in the form of a nil-cost option.
In March 2013 awards were made over 1.1 million Ordinary Shares under this plan with an estimated fair value of 2.2 million based on the market value on the date of grant.
The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group for three years from the date of award with the exception of the awards to the Chief Executive specific terms in this case are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
160 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 160 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements The following table details the outstanding number of share awards in issue all nil-cost.
2013 2012 Number of Number of share options share options million million At 1 January 5.1 Granted during the year 6.9 5.1 Forfeited during the year 0.4 Exercised during the year 0.2 At 31 December 11.4 5.1 Exercisable at 31 December 0.2 In respect of the outstanding options at 31 December 2013, the weighted average remaining contractual life is 2.20 years 2012: 2.85 years.
No share options expired during the year 2012: nil.
The weighted average share price during the period of exercise was 2.17 in the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: not applicable.
The Group recognised total expenses of 4.1 million in the year ended 31 December 2013 2012: 0.3 million relating to equity settled share-based compensation plans.
Further information on share based payments in respect of Directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
Trade and other payables including insurance payables 2013 2012 m m Due to agents, brokers and intermediaries 6.2 6.9 Due to reinsurers 81.0 81.9 Due to insurance companies 13.6 13.8 Due to related parties 58.7 34.7 Trade creditors and accruals 255.8 201.0 Other creditors 174.3 107.8 Other taxes 80.6 81.7 Provisions 134.9 114.2 Deferred income 13.2 12.6 Total 818.3 654.6 Movement in provisions during the year 1 Regulatory levies Restructuring Other Total m m m m At 1 January 2013 33.2 30.9 50.1 114.2 Additional provision 36.3 51.9 67.2 155.4 Utilisation of provision 42.2 45.9 39.3 127.4 Releases to income statement 3.3 4.0 7.3 At 31 December 2013 27.3 33.6 74.0 134.9 Note: 1.
Other provisions include 22.5 million 2012: 11.0 million for costs associated with onerous contracts in respect of leasehold properties.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 161 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 35.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 2013 2012 m m Profit for the year 312.8 184.3 Adjustments for: Investment income 188.6 199.3 Instalment income 117.8 125.4 Other operating losses 0.7 2.1 Net fair value gain loss on assets at fair value through income statement 7.5 4.8 Finance costs 37.7 28.7 Equity-settled share-based payment transactions 4.1 0.3 Tax charge 111.1 64.8 Depreciation and amortisation expenses 58.2 43.1 Non-cash movement in demerger reserve 24.6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets 5.5 10.7 Impairment movements on reinsurance contracts 7.5 6.8 Profit on sale of AFS financial investments 25.7 89.4 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 2.9 4.8 Profit on disposal of subsidiary 12.0 Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 173.9 39.1 Movements in working capital: Net decrease in net insurance liabilities including reinsurance assets and deferred acquisition costs 594.8 532.5 Net increase decrease in prepayments and accrued income and other assets 13.1 9.6 Net decrease in insurance and other receivables 34.3 86.5 Net increase decrease in trade and other payables including insurance payables 175.9 253.4 Contribution to retirement benefit obligations 2.8 2.5 Cash used by operations 226.6 731.4 Taxes paid 80.2 232.4 Finance costs 2.0 Cash flow hedges 0.2 0.2 Net cash flow used by operating activities before investment of insurance assets 307.0 966.0 Interest received 574.2 327.7 Rental income received from investment property 11.4 4.4 Purchases of investment property 87.0 133.7 Proceeds on disposal of investment property 69.5 Distributions received from other investment funds 3.1 Proceeds on disposal maturity of AFS financial investments 3,147.8 4,021.6 Net decrease in investment balances held with credit institutions 209.3 844.6 Purchases of AFS financial investments 3,422.7 3,132.4 Cash generated from investment of insurance assets 433.0 2,004.8 36.
Contingent liabilities The Group did not have any contingent liabilities at 31 December 2013 2012: none.
162 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 162 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements 37.
Commitments Operating lease commitments The Group has entered cancellable and non-cancellable operating lease agreements for vehicles and other assets.
2013 2012 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised as an expense in the year 35.0 7.5 The following table analyses the outstanding commitments under cancellable and non-cancellable operating leases by the period in which they fall due.
2013 2012 m m Within one year 29.8 33.0 In the second to fifth years inclusive 85.0 92.3 After five years 248.9 250.5 Total 363.7 375.8 Operating lease commitments where the Group is the lessor The following table analyses future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases.
2013 2012 m m Within one year 13.3 7.8 In the second to fifth years inclusive 45.3 26.6 After five years 85.9 41.2 Total 144.5 75.6 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 163 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 38.
Classification of financial instruments The following tables analyse the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities in accordance with the categories of financial instruments in IAS 39.
Non-financial assets and liabilities outside the scope of IAS 39 are shown separately.
Other than those financial assets and liabilities stated at fair value below, the carrying value of all other financial assets and liabilities, with the exception of subordinated liabilities, equals their fair value.
Financial assets liabilities Non-financial At fair AvailableLoans and At amortised assets value for-sale receivables cost liabilities Total At 31 December 2013 m m m m m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 500.1 500.1 Property, plant and equipment 102.3 102.3 Investment property 223.4 223.4 Reinsurance assets 1,011.0 1,011.0 Deferred tax assets 19.3 19.3 Current tax assets 1.3 1.3 Deferred acquisition costs 321.5 321.5 Insurance and other receivables 1,122.0 1,122.0 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 95.7 95.7 Derivative financial instruments 40.7 40.7 Financial investments 7,005.5 435.7 7,441.2 Cash and cash equivalents 908.3 908.3 Assets held for sale 1.0 1.0 Total assets 40.7 7,005.5 2,466.0 2,275.6 11,787.8 Liabilities Subordinated liabilities 486.6 486.6 Insurance liabilities 5,757.4 5,757.4 Unearned premium reserve 1,818.7 1,818.7 Retirement benefit obligations 2.0 2.0 Borrowings 55.1 55.1 Derivative financial instruments 19.3 19.3 Trade and other payables including insurance 683.4 134.9 818.3 payables Deferred tax liabilities 19.3 19.3 Current tax liabilities 21.1 21.1 Total liabilities 19.3 1,225.1 7,753.4 8,997.8 Total equity 2,790.0 Total equity and liabilities 11,787.8 164 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 164 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements Financial assets liabilities Non-financial assets At fair AvailableLoans and At amortised liabilities value for-sale receivables cost Total m At 31 December 2012 m m m m m Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets 421.5 421.5 Property, plant and equipment 92.4 92.4 Investment property 128.9 128.9 Reinsurance assets 1,102.0 1,102.0 Deferred tax assets 22.5 22.5 Current tax assets 5.5 5.5 Deferred acquisition costs 327.6 327.6 Insurance and other receivables 1,164.0 1,164.0 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 82.6 82.6 Derivative financial instruments 37.5 37.5 Retirement benefit asset 2.5 2.5 Financial investments 7,156.5 645.0 7,801.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1,508.4 1,508.4 Assets held for sale 1.0 1.0 Total assets 37.5 7,156.5 3,317.4 2,186.5 12,697.9 Liabilities Subordinated liabilities 787.5 787.5 Insurance liabilities 6,398.5 6,398.5 Unearned premium reserve 1,872.9 1,872.9 Borrowings 90.9 90.9 Derivative financial instruments 6.5 6.5 Trade and other payables including insurance payables 540.4 114.2 654.6 Deferred tax liabilities 20.9 20.9 Current tax liabilities 34.5 34.5 Total liabilities 6.5 1,418.8 8,441.0 9,866.3 Total equity 2,831.6 Total equity and liabilities 12,697.9 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 165 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 39.
Related parties On 13 March 2013, RBS Group sold 16.8% of the Companys Ordinary Shares and ceased to be the controlling shareholder of Direct Line Group.
On 20 September 2013, RBS Group sold a further 20.0% of the Companys Ordinary Shares, which is a further step towards complete disposal by the end of 2014.
At 31 December 2013, RBS Group held 28.5% of the issued Ordinary Share capital and the Group is treated as an associated undertaking in the RBS Group results.
The UK Government through HM Treasury is the ultimate controlling party of RBS Group and is as a consequence a related party of Direct Line Group.
The UK Governments shareholding is managed by UK Financial Investments Limited, a company wholly owned by the UK Government.
This gives rise to related party transactions and balances, specifically in respect of tax with HMRC and debt security investments with the UK Government.
Transactions with RBS Group 2013 2012 m m Sale of insurance contracts and other services 3.2 6.9 Purchase of services 145.8 270.7 Sale and purchase of products and services are conducted on an arms length basis.
Purchase of services, in the year ended 31 December 2012 above, include share-based payment costs for key managers and other staff.
Year end balances arising from cash and investment transactions with members of the RBS Group 2013 2012 m m Cash at bank 64.7 69.1 Short-term bank deposits 28.8 Bank overdrafts 55.1 90.9 Derivative financial assets 20.0 25.4 Derivative financial liabilities 18.5 2.4 Term deposits 35.0 50.0 AFS debt securities 48.6 75.0 Total 94.7 155.0 Year end balances arising from sales and purchases of products and services to and from RBS Group Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m Total 0.9 5.1 58.7 34.7 Movement in amounts owed by to RBS Group Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties 2013 2012 2013 2012 m m m m At 1 January 5.1 7.7 34.7 158.7 Transactions in the year 0.2 68.0 147.1 294.6 Settled in the year 4.4 70.6 123.1 418.6 At 31 December 0.9 5.1 58.7 34.7 Included in transactions within amounts owed by related parties in the year ended 31 December 2012 is 69.5 million, invoiced to and paid by RBS Group for the purchase of investment properties.
Included in transactions within amounts owed to related parties in the year ended 31 December 2012 is an amount of 39.3 million, invoiced by and paid to RBS Group for the acquisition of furniture, fittings and IT hardware.
Furthermore, also included is an amount of 31.3 million paid to the RBS Group pension scheme see note 32 for further details.
166 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 166 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial statements Loans from RBS Group 2013 2012 m m Total Movement in loans from RBS Group 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 247.7 Loan repayments made 246.4 Interest charged 2.7 Interest settled 2.7 Effect of foreign currency exchange adjustment 1.3 At 31 December During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group repaid its loans from RBS Group in preparation for operational separation.
Compensation of key management 2013 2012 m m Short-term employee benefits 9.1 7.1 Post-employment benefits 0.2 0.6 Termination benefits 0.2 2.2 Share-based payments 1.9 0.1 Total 11.4 10.0 For the purposes of IAS 24 Related party disclosures, key management personnel comprise the Directors of the Company, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Post balance sheet events On 5 February 2014 the Group sold 100% of the share capital of Tracker Network UK Limited to Lysanda Limited.
During the first quarter of 2014 the UK has seen adverse weather conditions resulting from storm damage and severe flooding.
The Groups preliminary estimate of the costs of Home claims, until the 22 February 2014, is in the range of 70 million to 90 million.
The Group has also experienced weather-related claims of approximately 20 million in its Commercial division.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 167 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 167
