58 SPECIALIST FUNDS MANAGED BY INVESCO PERPETUAL Investing for Income, Income Growth and Capital Growth from equities, fixed interest securities or property Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Portfolio Invests primarily in UK securities with the long-term objective of achieving: Aims to generate income from a variety of fixed income instruments combined with a high degree of security.
Income 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than will reduce during periods of very low interest rates.
the growth in the FTSE All Share Index: and 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc UK Equity Portfolio inflation.
Aims to generate long-term capital and income growth with real growth in dividends from investment, primarily in the UK The Company is geared by way of two debenture stocks.
The portfolio is geared by bank debt.
City Merchants High Yield Trust Limited Invesco Property Income Trust Limited A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to The Company is a closed-ended investment company with generate a high level of income from a variety of fixed limited liability incorporated in Jersey.
The objective is to income instruments.
The Company is geared by bank debt.
repay its bank borrowings and other liabilities on or before Invesco Income Growth Trust plc 28 September 2014 and, having met these obligations, to Aims to provide shareholders with a long-term growth in provide a return for shareholders.
The Company holds a capital and real, long-term growth in dividends from an diversified portfolio of European commercial properties and above-average yielding portfolio comprising mainly UK equities is geared by bank debt.
Seeks to achieve a total return in Keystone Investment Trust plc excess of the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Company is geared by Aims to provide shareholders with long-term growth of bank debt.
capital mainly from UK investments.
The Company is geared Invesco Leveraged High Yield Fund Limited by way of debenture stocks.
A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company that aims to Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc provide a high level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst Aims to provide shareholders with capital growth and real seeking to maximise total return through investing, primarily in growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a a diversified portfolio of high-yielding corporate and portfolio of securities listed mainly in the UK equity and fixed government bonds.
The Company seeks to balance the interest markets.
The Company is geared by a debenture attraction of high-yield securities with the need for protection of stock and bank debt.
capital and to manage volatility.
The Company is highly geared.
Investing in Smaller Companies Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc Aims to achieve long-term total returns for the Companys small to medium size UK-quoted companies.
The Company shareholders from investment in a broad cross-section of may gear by bank debt.
Investing Internationally Invesco Asia Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Global Equity Income Portfolio Aims to provide long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of Asian and Australasian securities.
The Aims to provide an attractive and growing level of income Company aims to achieve growth in its net asset value in return and capital appreciation over the long term, excess of the MSCI All Countries Asia Pacific Ex Japan Index predominantly through investment in a diversified portfolio in sterling terms.
The portfolio may be geared by bank debt.
Investing for Total Returns Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Balanced Risk Portfolio Aims to provide shareholders with an attractive total return in The portfolio is constructed so as to balance risk, is long-only, using mainly transparently-priced exchange-traded futures differing economic and inflationary environments and with low correlation to equity and bond market indices by gaining contracts and other derivative instruments to gain such exposure and to provide gearing.
exposure to three asset classes: debt securities, equities and commodities.
Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc A choice of four investment policies and objectives, each UK Equity Portfolio intended to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns from Global Equity Income Portfolio segregated portfolios, with the ability to switch between Managed Liquidity Portfolio them, four times a year, free from capital gains tax liability.
Balanced Risk Portfolio Dividends paid quarterly, apart from Balanced Risk which will not normally pay dividends.
Please contact our Investor Services Team on 0800 085 8677 if you would like more information about the investment trusts or other specialist funds listed above.
Further details are also available on the following website: www.
Linkway Financial Printers Typeset & Printed in London UK 16170
