THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The shares of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Managers Website are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Information relating to the Company can be found on the Managers website, which can be located at Savings Plan and ISA www.
The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is a member The contents of websites referred to in this of the Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings document, or accessible from links within those Scheme and the Invesco Perpetual Investment websites, are not incorporated in to, nor do they Trust ISA.
Shares in this Company can be form part of this annual financial report.
purchased and sold via these two schemes.
Financial Calendar Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings In addition, the Company publishes information Scheme according to the following calendar: The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust Savings Scheme allows an investor to make monthly Announcements purchases from as little as 20 per month or Annual Financial Report May June through lump sum investments of 500 or Half-yearly Financial Report November above in the shares of the Company in a Interim Management straightforward and low cost way.
Statements July and January Ordinary Share Dividends Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA 1st interim payable November The Invesco Perpetual Investment Trust ISA allows 2nd interim payable February investments up to 11,520 in shares of the 3rd interim payable May Company in the 2013 14 tax year.
Investors can Final payable July also choose to make lump sum investments from 500, or regular investments from as little as 20 Debenture Stock per month.
Interest payable: 1 11 2% 2014 June and December 3 For full details of these Invesco Perpetual 7 4% 2022 September and March investment schemes please contact Invesco Annual General Meeting July Perpetuals Investor Services Team free on 0800 085 8677.
Year End 31 March Location of Annual General Meeting Net Asset Value NAV Publication The one hundred and twenty fourth Annual The NAV of the Companys ordinary shares is General Meeting of the Company will be held at calculated by the Manager on a daily basis and is the Weston Link, National Galleries of Scotland, notified to the Stock Exchange on the next Princes Street, Edinburgh on 19 July 2013 at business day.
It is published daily in the 11.00 am.
The investment manager, Neil Woodford, will be Share Price Listings making a presentation about the Company after The price of your shares can be found in the the AGM.
Financial Times, Daily Telegraph, The Times and The Scotsman.
In addition, share price information can be found using the EDIN ticker code.
Internet addresses: Invesco Perpetual www.
co. uk investmenttrusts The Association www.
co. uk of Investment Companies
