benefits of diversity on the Board including gender.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
The Valuations Committee The Valuations Committee adds a further level of oversight to the valuation process carried out by Electra Partners under its contractual arrangements with the Company.
The Valuations Committee was chaired by Ms Barker.
Mr Cullinan, Mr Perkin, and Mr Yates were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Ms Webber was a member of the Committee until her retirement from the Board in March 2013.
Ms Barnes and Mrs Gold were appointed as members of the Committee in March and September 2013 respectively.
The Committee met twice during the year.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Mr Cullinan.
Mr Cullinan and Mr Yates were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Ms Webber was a member of the Committee until she retired as a Director in March 2013.
Ms Barnes and Mrs Gold were appointed to the Committee in March and September 2013 respectively.
The Committees duties are to review the terms of the Management Contract to ensure that they are competitive and sensible for shareholders by satisfying itself that the investment management of the Companys portfolio is in accordance with the Investment Policy: satisfying itself that all other duties of the Manager are being performed: reviewing the overall performance of the Manager: and deciding, at the intervals prescribed by the Management Agreement, on the continuation or termination of the agreement and by agreeing the terms and fees of any ongoing agreement.
The Committee met twice during the year to discuss these matters.
Induction and Training New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee and which includes being briefed fully about the Company by the Chairman, senior executives of Electra Partners and the Company Secretary.
Following appointment, the Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with Directors their training and development needs as necessary to enable them to discharge their duties.
The Companys Relationship with its Shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Company, in conjunction with Electra Partners, endeavours to provide the fullest information on the Company to its shareholders, maintaining a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and City analysts, as well as making a number of presentations and visits throughout the year.
Meetings are held with principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders are welcome to attend and have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and hear a presentation from Electra Partners covering the investment performance during the last financial year.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including receipt of the annual report and accounts.
All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, the level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published on the Companys website.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination, Valuations and Management Engagement Committees are normally available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting each year.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director can be contacted either through the Company Secretary, Frostrow Capital LLP, at 25 Southampton Buildings, London EC2A 1AL or at the Companys registered office at Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB.
Internal Control The Board confirms that it has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place throughout the year and has continued since the year end.
It is reviewed at regular intervals by the Board.
