Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-ninth Annual General Meeting of Electra Private Equity PLC will be held at 1pm on Tuesday 11 March 2014 in The Great Hall at The Saddlers Hall, 40 Gutter Lane, London EC2V 6BR for the following purposes: Ordinary Business 1.
To receive the reports of the Directors and Auditors and the Group Accounts for the year ended 30 September 2013.
To approve the Remuneration Policy as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 which is set out in the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2013.
To approve the Annual Report on Remuneration as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 which is set out in the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 30 September 2013.
To elect Ms F Barnes as a Director of the Company.
To elect Mrs J Gold as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms K Barker as a Director of the Company.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to fix the remuneration of the Auditors.
Special Business As Special Business, to consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolution as a Special Resolution: 9.
Special resolution to renew share buyback authority: That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the said Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 5,297,860 or such lesser number of shares as is equal to 14.99 per cent of the total number of ordinary shares in issue as at the date of the passing of this resolution: ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 25 pence: iii the maximum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased: iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per ordinary share as determined by the Directors : and v unless renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the earlier of 11 June 2015 or the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2015 save that the Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By order of the Board of Directors Frostrow Capital, Company Secretary Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London, EC4M 8AB 26 November 2013 88
