Strategic Report Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Financial Statements 1 General Information esure Group plc is a company incorporated in England and Wales.
Its registered office is The Observatory, Reigate, Surrey RH2 0SG.
The nature of the Groups operations is the writing of general insurance for private cars and homes.
The Companys principal activity is that of a holding company.
All of the Companys subsidiaries are located in the United Kingdom, except for esure S. L. which is incorporated in Spain.
2 Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements present the esure Group plc group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013, comprising the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of financial position, consolidated statement of changes in equity, consolidated statement of cash flows and related notes, as well as the comparatives.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The financial performance and position of the Group, its cash flows and its approach to capital management are set out in the financial review on pages 18 to 23.
The Group has a strong financial position with no debt, robust reserves, a conservative investment portfolio and capital significantly in excess of the minimum regulatory requirement.
In addition, the Board has reviewed the Groups projections for the next 12 months and beyond, including cash flow forecasts and regulatory capital surpluses.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least 12 months.
These consolidated financial statements have been presented in Sterling and rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
Throughout these consolidated financial statements any amounts which are less than 0.05m are shown by 0.0, whereas a dash represents that no balance exists.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial assets and land and buildings that are measured at fair value at the reporting date.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Changes to accounting policies The Group has adopted the following new standards, including consequential amendments to other standards, with a date of initial application of 1 January 2013: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 2011 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 10, 11 and 12 are effective under EU law from 1 January 2014, with early adoption permitted, and have been early adopted by the Group.
The nature and effects of the changes are explained below: Consolidation of subsidiaries IFRS 10 2011 introduces a new control model that focuses on whether the Group has power over an investee, exposure or rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and ability to use its power to affect those returns.
There were no changes to the control conclusion in respect of any investments held by the Group and there has been no impact on the recognised assets, liabilities and comprehensive income of the Group as a result of the change.
Joint arrangements Under IFRS 11, the Group classifies its interests in joint arrangements as either joint operations if the Group has rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to an arrangement or joint ventures if the Group has rights only to the net assets of an arrangement.
When making this assessment, the Group considers the structure of the arrangements, the legal form of any separate vehicles, the contractual terms of the arrangement and other factors and circumstances.
Previously, the structure of the arrangement was the sole focus of classification.
There has been no change to the classification of the Groups only joint arrangement.
The investment continues to be recognised by applying the equity method and there has been no impact on the recognised assets, liabilities and comprehensive income of the Group as a result of the change.
Refer to note 11 for additional details.
Disclosure of interests in other entities In accordance with IFRS 12, the Group has expanded its disclosures about its interest in the joint arrangement.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 71 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Fair value measurement IFRS 13 establishes a single framework for measuring fair value and making disclosures about fair value measurements when such measurements are required or permitted by other IFRSs.
It unifies the definition of fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
It replaces and expands the disclosure required about fair value measurements in other IFRSs.
As a result, the Group has included additional disclosures in this regard.
The change has no significant impact on the measurement of the Groups assets and liabilities and has had no impact on the value of the Groups assets and liabilities recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position.
There are a number of other new standards and amendments to standards with a date of initial application of 1 January 2013, the adoption of which has had no material effect on the Groups accounting policies.
At the date of approval of these financial statements there were no standards, amendments or interpretations in issue and endorsed by the EU which the Group had not adopted.
The following amendment to an existing standard has been endorsed by the EU, but is not mandatory for the year ended 31 December 2013 and has not been early adopted by the Group: Effective 1 January 2014: Amendments to IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial liabilities.
This amendment addresses inconsistencies in current practice when applying the offsetting criteria in IAS 32 for financial assets and liabilities.
The adoption of the amendment is expected to have no material effect on the Groups accounting policies.
There are a number of standards, amendments and interpretations which have been issued by the IASB but which have not yet been endorsed by the EU thus the date and impact of applying these is uncertain.
Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiary companies are consolidated using the acquisition method.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Group obtained control, and continue to be consolidated until the date when such control ceases.
In preparing these consolidated financial statements, any intra-group balances, unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group trading are eliminated.
Where accounting policies used in individual financial statements of a subsidiary company differ from Group policies, adjustments are made to bring these policies in line with Group policies.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an arrangement in which the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
The Groups interests in jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The Group recognises the cost of the investments which, together with the Groups share of the joint ventures post-acquisition changes to shareholders funds, is included in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss and other comprehensive income is stated after appropriate adjustments to align the accounting policies of the joint venture with those of the Group.
In addition, adjustments are made for the amortisation of separately identifiable intangible assets recognised on acquisition and to eliminate unrealised profits relating to commission charged to esure Group plc by the joint venture.
Carrying values are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
If any such indications exist, the assets recoverable amount is estimated and compared to the carrying value.
Impairment losses are recognised through the income statement.
Impairment may be reversed if conditions subsequently improve and credited through the income statement.
Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount of non-controlling interest in the acquiree, plus if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquiree.
For each business combination, the Group has an option to measure any non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Goodwill is recognised at the date of acquisition as the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
Where the excess is negative a gain is recognised in the income statement at the date of acquisition.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses, with the exception of insurance contracts and operating leases, the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions at the acquisition date.
All acquisition-related costs are expensed in the income statement when incurred.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 72 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2 Accounting policies continued Revenue Gross written premiums Gross written premiums, being the total premiums receivable for the whole period of cover provided by contracts entered into during the accounting period, excluding taxes or duties based on premiums, are recognised on the date which the policy commences.
Gross written premiums include any adjustments arising in the accounting period for premiums receivable in respect of business written in prior accounting periods.
Unearned premiums The proportion of gross written premiums that are to be earned in the accounting period after the balance sheet date are deferred as a provision for unearned premiums.
Premiums earned are computed separately for each insurance contract and are recognised as revenue using the daily pro rata method, which is consistent with the incidence of risk assumed over the coverage period of the related policy.
Reinsurance premiums Reinsurance premiums are recognised and measured in a manner consistent with the related insured contracts issued by the Group and the specific terms of each reinsurance contract.
Reinsurance premiums are expensed over the period that the reinsurance cover is provided based on the expected pattern of the reinsured risks.
The unexpired portion of ceded reinsurance premiums is included in reinsurance assets.
Unearned reinsurance premiums Unearned reinsurance premiums are those proportions of premiums written in a year that relate to periods of risk after the reporting date.
Unearned reinsurance premiums are deferred over the term of the underlying direct insurance policies for risks-attaching contracts and over the term of the reinsurance contract for losses-occurring contracts.
Fees for additional services Additional Services Revenues comprise sales of non-underwritten additional insurance products to Motor and Home insurance customers: policy administration fees: fees generated from the appointment of firms used during the claims process, including medical, car hire suppliers: and, prior to the implementation of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, applicable legal panel membership fees.
Revenue earned on the sale of additional services includes both brokerage fees and commission, where the Group has a continuing relationship with the customer, and introducer fees where the Group does not have a continuing relationship with the customer.
Revenue relating to insurance broking is brought into account at the later of policy inception date or when the policy placement has been completed and confirmed.
Where the Group has an obligation to provide future services to the customer an element of income relating to the policy is deferred to cover the cost of fulfilling the associated contractual obligation plus a reasonable profit margin.
Deferred revenue is credited to the income statement over the period matching the Groups obligations to provide those services.
Where the Group has no contractual obligation to provide future services, the revenue is recognised immediately.
In certain circumstances, where the revenue cannot be reliably measured at the contract or policy inception date, broking fees and commission are recognised on a periodic basis when the consideration becomes due.
Rebates of commissions and fees relating to the return of premiums for additional insurance products and services are recognised when liability is possible.
Administration fees are recognised in the period in which the related administration services are provided.
Panel Membership fees are agreed with legal suppliers every six months and recognised on an accruals basis.
Other referral fees from credit hire and repair are recognised at the later of the point of invoice or when the policy fees are due.
Investment income and instalment interest Investment income including interest received from policyholders who pay by instalment on assets classified as loans and receivables is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated by using the effective interest rate method.
The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset or liability and of allocating the interest income or interest expense over the expected life of the asset or liability.
The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instruments initial carrying amount.
Calculation of the effective interest rate takes into account fees payable or receivable that are an integral part of the instruments yield, premiums or discounts on acquisition or issue, early redemption fees and transaction costs.
All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows.
Investment income also comprises interest and dividend income and net gains both realised and unrealised on financial assets classified at fair value through profit or loss, including derivative financial instruments.
Dividends are recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
For listed securities, this is the date the security is listed as ex-dividend.
Investment income also includes rental income.
Rental income represents income arising from operating leases and is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 73 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Government grants Government grants are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attached conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as deferred income and released to the income statement in equal amounts over the expected useful life of the related asset.
Claims and expenses recognition Gross claims incurred and claims handling expenses Gross claims include all claims incurred during the year, whether reported or not, less other recoveries, together with related internal and external handling costs that are directly related to the processing and settlement of claims, and any adjustment to claims outstanding from previous years.
Reinsurance claims Reinsurance claims are recognised and measured in a manner consistent with the related insurance contracts issued by the Group and the specific terms of the reinsurance contract.
Finance costs Finance costs comprise of interest paid which is recognised in the income statement as it accrues and is calculated by using the effective interest rate method.
Accrued interest is included within the carrying value of the interest bearing financial liability.
Taxation Current tax Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Current tax assets and liabilities also include adjustments in respect of tax expected to be payable or recoverable in respect of previous periods.
Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income is recognised in equity or other comprehensive income and not in the income statement.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences arising between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
It is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is recovered, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is also recognised outside the income statement, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity as appropriate.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
Foreign currency translation Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to Sterling at the exchange rate at the reporting date.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in profit or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is recognised on business combinations and the acquisition of joint ventures at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill arising on business combinations is presented in intangible assets.
For joint ventures, goodwill is not separately presented but is included in the carrying amount of the investment.
Negative goodwill is recognised in the Group income statement at the date of acquisition.
Positive goodwill is not amortised.
Impairment of goodwill Goodwill arising on a business combination is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of the cash generating unit or units to which the goodwill is allocated exceeds its recoverable amount.
A recognised impairment loss is not reversed.
Goodwill attributed to an investment in a joint venture accounted under the equity method is not tested for impairment separately.
The entire carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment only if there is objective evidence of impairment.
A recognised impairment loss may be reversed if conditions subsequently improve.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 74 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2 Accounting policies continued Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets are amortised over their useful lives.
For intangible assets that are recognised as part of business combinations, the Group makes an assessment of the fair value of the identified intangible assets acquired in the business combination.
Intangible assets other than those arising as part of business combinations are recognised as long as it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably.
The Group holds no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives other than goodwill.
The carrying value of intangible assets with finite useful lives is reviewed at every reporting date for evidence of impairment with the value being written down if any impairment exists.
If conditions subsequently improve, the previously recognised impairment may be reversed and credited through the income statement.
The economic lives and amortisation methods of acquired intangible assets, other than software, are as follows: Customer relationships 5 to 6 years, based on the pattern of consumption of the benefits Brands 8 to 10 years, on a straight-line basis Software Purchased software is recognised as an intangible asset, with the carrying value being reviewed at every reporting date for evidence of impairment and the value being written down if any impairment exists.
If conditions subsequently improve, the previously recognised impairment may be reversed.
The cost of purchased software is amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the intangible asset.
This has been set between two and seven years.
Expenditure on research activities is recognised in the income statement as an expense as incurred.
Costs associated with the development of software for internal use are capitalised only if the software is technically feasible for sale or use on completion and the Group has both the intent and sufficient resources to complete the development.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only if the cost of the asset can be reliably measured, will generate future economic benefits and there is an ability to use or sell the asset.
The cost of internally generated software is amortised over the expected useful life of the intangible asset on a straight-line basis.
The expected useful life is between three and five years.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment comprise land and buildings occupied by the Group and fixtures, fittings and equipment including computer hardware.
These assets are depreciated over their estimated useful lives after taking into account residual values.
Replacement or major inspection costs are capitalised when incurred if it is possible that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the entity and the costs can be measured reliably.
Land and buildings are stated at their revalued amount, which is the fair value, less subsequent depreciation for buildings.
All other assets are stated at cost less depreciation and accumulated impairment.
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to write off the cost less residual values of the assets over their economic lives with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
The economic lives are as follows: Fixtures, fittings and equipment between 3 and 8 years Freehold buildings 100 years The assets residual values, useful lives and method of depreciation are reviewed and adjusted prospectively, if appropriate.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no further future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset is included in the income statement in the year in which the asset is derecognised.
Impairment and revaluation of property, plant and equipment Carrying values are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there are any indications of impairment.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value of the asset, less costs to sell and the assets value in use.
Revaluations of land and buildings are undertaken annually, with more frequent revaluations occurring where an assessment is made that the carrying amount may differ materially from its fair value.
Where a revaluation occurs, any accumulated depreciation at the time of the revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
Increases in the carrying amount arising on the revaluation of Group occupied property are credited to revaluation reserves in other comprehensive income.
Decreases that offset the previous increases of the same asset are charged against revaluation surplus directly in other comprehensive income: other decreases are charged to the income statement.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 75 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Financial assets Classification Financial assets falling within the scope of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement are designated as at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables or held for trading.
The Group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
The Group does not classify any financial assets as held to maturity or available-for-sale financial assets.
The Groups financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, insurance and other receivables and quoted and unquoted financial investments including derivatives.
Initial recognition of financial assets The Group designates on initial recognition its financial assets held for investment purposes financial investments at fair value through the profit or loss FVTPL with the exception of derivatives, which are classified as held for trading.
This is in accordance with the Groups documented investment strategy and is consistent with investment risk being assessed on a portfolio basis.
Information relating to investments is provided internally to the Groups Directors and key managers on a fair value basis.
All other financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
Purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date.
Subsequent measurement Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any resultant gain or loss recognised through the income statement.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost less accumulated impairment losses using the effective interest rate method.
Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at each balance sheet date whether any financial assets held at amortised cost are impaired.
Financial assets are impaired where there is evidence that one or more events occurring after the initial recognition of the asset may lead to a reduction in the estimated future cash flows arising from the asset.
Impairment losses on financial assets classified as loans and receivables are calculated as the difference between the carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Impairment losses and any reversals of impairments are recognised through the income statement.
Objective evidence of impairment may include default on cash flows from the asset and reporting financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty.
Derecognition of financial assets A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from that asset have expired or when the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial assets.
Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if, and only if, the Group has a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and it intends to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Income and expenses are not offset in the income statement unless required or permitted by any accounting standard or interpretation.
Reinsurance The Group cedes insurance risk in the normal course of business for the purpose of limiting its potential losses from accepting insurance risk.
Reinsurance assets represent amounts expected to be recovered from reinsurers in respect of claims incurred under the related insurance contracts and are estimated in a manner consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims under the related insurance contracts.
Reinsurance assets are reviewed for impairment at each reporting date or more frequently when an indication of impairment arises during the reporting period.
Impairment occurs when there is objective evidence as a result of an event that occurred after initial recognition of the reinsurance asset that the Group may not receive all outstanding amounts due under the terms of the contract and the event has a reliably measurable impact on the amounts that the Group will receive from the reinsurer.
Any impairment loss is recorded in the income statement.
Insurance receivables Insurance receivables are recognised when due and are measured on initial recognition at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Subsequent to initial recognition, insurance receivables are measured at amortised cost less accumulated impairment losses, using the effective interest rate method.
The carrying value of insurance receivables is reviewed for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, with the impairment loss recorded in the income statement.
Insurance receivables are derecognised when the derecognition criteria for financial asset, as described in the financial asset accounting policy, have been met.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 76 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2 Accounting policies continued Deferred acquisition costs DAC Acquisition costs comprise all commission and other acquisition costs arising from the conclusion of insurance contracts.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the proportion of acquisition costs incurred that corresponds to the unearned premiums provision at the reporting date, and are deferred to the extent that these costs are recoverable out of future premiums.
All other acquisition costs are recognised as an expense when incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, DAC assets are amortised over the period in which the related revenues are earned.
DAC assets are derecognised when the obligations under the related insurance contracts are either transferred or settled.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, and other short-term deposits with original maturities of three months or less that are held to meet short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes.
Insurance contract liabilities Provision for unearned premiums The provision for unearned premiums represents that portion of premiums received or receivable that relates to risks that have not yet expired at the reporting date.
The provision is recognised when the contracts are entered into and premiums are charged, and is brought to account as premium income over the term of the contract in accordance with the pattern of insurance service provided under the contract.
Liability adequacy test At each reporting date the Group reviews its unexpired risk and performs a liability adequacy test to determine whether the estimated cost of future claims and deferred acquisition costs exceeds the provision for unearned premiums.
This calculation uses current estimates of future contractual cash flows after taking account of the investment return expected to arise on assets relating to the relevant technical provision.
If these estimates show that the carrying amount of the unearned premium is inadequate, the deficiency is recognised in the income statement by setting up a provision for unexpired risk.
Outstanding claims provision The provision for claims outstanding comprises provisions for the estimated cost of settling all claims incurred but not settled at the balance sheet date including related claims handling expenses, whether reported or not.
Anticipated reinsurance recoveries and salvage and subrogation recoveries are disclosed separately as assets.
Insurance payables Insurance payables are recognised when due and measured initially at the fair value of the consideration received.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Insurance broking debtors and creditors The Group recognises on its balance sheet amounts due to insurers from clients, and money held on behalf of insurers in relation to the insurance transactions that the Company handles on behalf of those parties.
The cash at bank balances presented in these financial statements represent the aggregation of the money held for the benefit of the Company, clients and insurers.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities falling within the scope of IAS 39 are classified as derivatives held for trading, or other financial liabilities.
The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The Groups other financial liabilities include insurance and other payables and borrowings.
Initial recognition All financial liabilities are measured initially at fair value less, in the case of other financial liabilities, directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any fees or costs that are an integral part of effective interest rate, transaction costs and all other premiums and discounts.
The amortisation is included in finance costs in the income statement.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 77 Notes to the financial statements continued 2 Accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial liabilities A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification, is treated as a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives Derivatives are measured at fair value both initially and subsequent to initial recognition.
All changes in fair value are recognised in the income statement.
Derivatives are presented as assets when the fair values are positive and as liabilities when the fair values are negative.
Hedge accounting The Group does not currently designate any derivatives as hedging instruments.
Share capital Shares are classified as equity when there is no contractual obligation to transfer cash or other assets to holders of the financial instruments.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of the expenditure required to settle a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to a provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Employee benefits pensions The Group contributes to a defined contribution scheme for its employees.
The contributions payable to this scheme are charged to the income statement in the accounting period to which they relate.
Leases Group as a lessor Leases where the Group does not transfer substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which they are earned.
Group as a lessee operating leases Leases which do not transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased items are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the grant date at the fair value of the equity instruments excluding the effect of non-market vesting conditions but including the effect of market vesting conditions.
Fair value is not subsequently remeasured.
The fair value of equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a corresponding increase in equity, based on the best estimate of the number of awards which will ultimately vest unconditionally with employees.
The estimate of the number of awards expected to vest excluding the effect of market vesting conditions is revised at each reporting date, with any consequential changes to the charge recognised in the income statement.
Where equity-settled share-based payments are modified, any incremental fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the revised vesting period.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 78 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3 Critical accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates: however the consolidated financial statements presented are based on conditions that existed at the balance sheet date.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies Insurance contract liabilities Estimates have to be made both for the expected ultimate cost of claims reported at the reporting date and for the expected ultimate cost of claims incurred but not reported IBNR at the reporting date.
It can take a significant period of time before ultimate claims cost can be established with certainty and for some types of claims, IBNR claims account for the majority of the liability in the statement of financial position.
The ultimate cost of outstanding claims is estimated by carrying out standard actuarial projections in line with the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries Technical Actuarial Standards.
These techniques use past claims information and development patterns of these claims to project the expected future claims cost both for notified and non-notified claims.
Similar judgements, estimates and assumptions are employed in the assessment of adequacy of provisions for unearned premium and hence whether there is a requirement for an unexpired risk provision.
Please refer to note 19 for additional details.
4 Segmental information Operating segments The Group has four operating segments as described below.
These segments are also the Groups reportable segments and represent the manner in which the Business is regularly reported to the Groups Executive and Board of Directors.
Motor underwriting This segment incorporates the revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Groups Motor insurance underwriting activities inclusive of additional insurance products underwritten by the Group.
Home underwriting This segment incorporates the revenues and expenses directly attributable to the Groups Home insurance underwriting activities.
Non-underwritten additional services This segment represents the revenue and expenses relating to sales of third-party additional insurance products to Motor and Home insurance customers: policy administration fees: instalment interest income: fees generated from the appointment of firms used during the claims process, including medical, car hire suppliers: and, prior to the implementation of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, applicable legal panel membership fees.
Investments This segment represents income from investments to manage liabilities under insurance contracts and generate return for shareholders and an equity holding in a joint venture.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segmental information continued Segmental revenues, expenses and other information An analysis of the Groups results by reportable segment is shown below: Non-underwritten Motor Home additional underwriting underwriting services Investments Total Year ended 31 December 2013 m m m m m Gross written premiums 446.5 89.3 535.8 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 407.3 81.9 489.2 Investment income 14.7 14.7 Instalment interest income 30.8 30.8 Fees for additional services 38.8 38.8 Total income 407.3 81.9 69.6 14.7 573.5 Net incurred claims 273.7 48.6 322.3 Claims handling costs 13.3 2.1 15.4 Insurance expenses 79.3 21.6 100.9 Other operating expenses excl.
amortisation of intangibles 17.2 17.2 Total expenses 366.3 72.3 17.2 455.8 Share of joint venture profit gross of tax and amortisation 12.9 12.9 Trading profit 41.0 9.6 52.4 27.6 130.6 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 4.3 Non-trading costs 2.8 Finance costs 2.2 Profit before taxation 121.3 Tax expense 28.1 Profit after taxation 93.2 Net expense ratio 22.7% 28.9% 23.8% Net loss ratio 67.2% 59.3% 65.9% Combined operating ratio 89.9% 88.2% 89.7% The average number of in-force policies during the year ended 31 December 2013 was 1.86m.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 80 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 4 Segmental information continued Non-underwritten Motor Home additional underwriting underwriting services Investments Total Year ended 31 December 2012 m m m m m Gross written premiums 429.0 86.0 515.0 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 403.2 77.0 480.2 Investment income 39.4 39.4 Instalment interest income 28.5 28.5 Fees for additional services 44.4 44.4 Total income 403.2 77.0 72.9 39.4 592.5 Net incurred claims 282.4 49.7 332.1 Claims handling costs 15.5 1.8 17.3 Insurance expenses 74.8 21.3 96.1 Other operating expenses excl.
amortisation of intangibles 21.2 21.2 Total expenses 372.7 72.8 21.2 466.7 Share of joint venture profit gross of tax and amortisation 12.3 12.3 Trading profit 30.5 4.2 51.7 51.7 138.1 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 5.2 Non-trading costs 5.2 Finance costs 9.2 Profit before taxation 118.5 Tax expense 30.4 Profit after taxation 88.1 Net expense ratio 22.4% 30.0% 23.6% Net loss ratio 70.0% 64.5% 69.2% Combined operating ratio 92.4% 94.5% 92.8% The average number of in-force policies during the year ended 31 December 2012 was 1.72m.
There are no other material components of income and expense or non-cash items.
Trading profit, being earnings before interest, tax, non-trading expenses and amortisation of acquired intangible assets, is managements measure of the overall profitability of the Groups operating activities.
The Groups segmental trading profit, comprised of Motor underwriting, Home underwriting, investments and non-underwritten additional services is 130.6m 2012: 138.1m.
The Groups profit after tax is 93.2m 2012: 88.1m.
The Group incurred non-trading costs of 2.8m in 2013 relating to activities associated with Admission and share-based payments in respect of the long service and one-off awards disclosed in note 26.
The Group incurred non-trading costs of 5.2m in 2012, primarily relating to potential corporate transactions.
Segmental profit drivers Motor and Home underwriting The performance of the Motor and Home underwriting segments is measured by reference to a number of Key Performance Indicators, including in-force policies and the combined operating ratio.
Profitability of segmental underwriting activities is measured by reference to the net loss ratio, being net incurred claims as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the Motor underwriting net loss ratio was 67.2% 2012: 70.0% and the Home underwriting net loss ratio was 59.3% 2012: 64.5%.
Overall profitability of the Groups underwriting activities is measured by reference to the combined operating ratio, being the net expense ratio net insurance expenses plus claims handling costs as a percentage of earned premiums, net of reinsurance plus the net loss ratio.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, the net expense ratio was 23.8% 2012: 23.6% giving a combined operating ratio of 89.7% 2012: 92.8%.
All Motor and Home underwriting income is generated in the UK.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Segmental information continued Additional services The performance of additional services inclusive of underwritten additional insurance products that are reported within the Motor underwriting segment, is measured by reference to revenue per in-force policy IFP on a rolling 12 month basis.
Since the implementation of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, applicable legal panel membership fees are no longer received.
For comparability, Motor additional services income has been measured by reference to additional services revenue, excluding Claims Income, per Motor IFP.
At 31 December 2013, revenue per IFP under this metric was 64.3 2012: 62.9.
Statement of financial position The assets and liabilities of the Group are managed on an aggregated consolidated basis.
They are not allocated to reportable segments and are reported on the same basis as disclosed in the consolidated statement of financial position on page 68.
Reconciliation of segmental reporting to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income The Groups segmental reporting presents amortisation of acquired intangible assets separately from other operating expenses.
The Groups share of joint venture profit is presented before tax and amortisation.
5 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Gross written premiums 535.8 515.0 Change in unearned premium provision 9.7 3.3 Premium revenue arising from insurance contracts issued 526.1 511.7 Written premiums, ceded to reinsurers 40.7 32.8 Change in unearned premium provision 3.8 1.3 Earned premiums, ceded to reinsurers 36.9 31.5 Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 489.2 480.2 6 Investment income and instalment interest Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Interest income on financial investments at FVTPL 16.4 16.6 Interest income on cash deposits 0.4 0.4 Investment expenses 2.5 1.7 Fair value losses gains on derivative financial instruments 1.4 2.5 Gains on financial investments at FVTPL 1.7 21.5 Rental income 0.1 0.1 Total investment income 14.7 39.4 Instalment interest 30.8 28.5 Total investment income and instalment interest 45.5 67.9 Total interest income calculated using the effective interest rate method comprises interest income on cash deposits and instalment interest.
7 Employee benefit expense Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Wages and salaries 43.4 42.5 Social security costs 4.4 4.1 Pension costs defined contribution schemes 2.3 2.4 Equity settled share-based payment expenses note 26 1.8 Total employee benefit expense 51.9 49.0 The average number of employees, including Directors, during each period was: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Operations 1,191 1,192 Support 374 346 Total average number of employees 1,565 1,538 esure Group Annual Report 2013 82 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 8 Directors remuneration Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Emoluments 2.4 1.9 Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme 0.1 0.1 Total Directors remuneration 2.5 2.0 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Remuneration of the highest paid Director m m Emoluments 0.8 1.0 Contributions to defined contribution pension scheme Total remuneration of the highest paid Director 0.8 1.0 Directors emoluments do not include the value of any share options granted to Directors.
Full disclosure of the awards is provided in note 26.
No Directors exercised share options during the year 2012: nil and no shares were exercisable as at 31 December 2013 2012: nil.
Retirement benefits were accruing to two Directors 2012: three in respect of defined contribution pension schemes.
9 Insurance and other operating expenses Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Acquisition of insurance contracts 56.8 52.3 Change in DAC 2.2 2.5 Administration 46.3 46.3 Insurance expenses 100.9 96.1 Other operating expenses 22.8 29.6 10 Profit after tax Profit after tax is stated after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Employee benefit expense note 7 51.9 49.0 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1.0 1.3 Amortisation of intangible assets 3.6 4.0 Operating lease payments 3.0 3.2 Government grant income 0.1 0.1 Auditors remuneration: Fees for audit services Audit of these financial statements 0.1 0.0 Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries of the Company 0.2 0.2 Total audit fees 0.3 0.2 Fees for non-audit services Audit-related assurance services 0.0 0.1 Tax compliance services 0.1 0.1 Tax advisory fees 0.0 0.0 Corporate finance services 0.3 0.8 All other services 0.1 0.3 Total non-audit fees 0.5 1.3 Total Group auditor remuneration 0.8 1.5 Amortisation arises on software, acquired brands and customer relationships.
Amortisation charged is recorded within insurance expenses and other operating expenses.
Corporate finance services primarily relate to the reporting Accountants fee in connection with the Companys listing.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Investment in joint venture At 31 December 2013 the Group owns 50% 2012: 50% of the ordinary share capital and has a 50% 2012: 50% interest in Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited Gocompare, a company incorporated in England and Wales.
The principal activity of the company is a holding company of an internet-based price comparison business.
The Group has Gocompare board representation in order to protect its interest, however the investment is held by the Group on an arms length basis and the investment is not strategic to the Group.
The following represents the assets, liabilities, revenue and results of the joint venture after adjustments made to comply with the equity method of accounting: 2013 2012 m m Non-current assets including goodwill of 41.6m 2012: 41.6m and intangible assets of 3.4m 2012: 6.2m recognised on application of the equity method by esure Group plc 47.0 48.4 Current assets 44.5 38.2 Total assets 91.5 86.6 Current liabilities 11.3 11.4 Non-current liabilities Total liabilities 11.3 11.4 Net assets 80.2 75.2 esure Group plcs share of net assets 50% : 40.1 37.6 Revenue 110.2 105.4 Expenses 84.6 81.0 Amortisation of intangible assets recognised on application of the equity method by esure Group plc 2.8 4.0 Adjustment to eliminate unrealised profits 0.2 0.2 Profit before tax 23.0 20.6 Taxation expense 6.0 6.0 Profit after tax 17.0 14.6 esure Group plcs share of profit after tax 50% : 8.5 7.3 Memorandum items Cash and cash equivalents 35.0 29.9 Depreciation and software license amortisation 0.6 0.4 Financial liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions Interest income and expenses 0.3 0.3 Other comprehensive income Gocompare is part of a VAT Group of which each member is jointly and severally liable.
The VAT Groups liability at 31 December 2013 was 1.4m 2012: 1.4m.
The VAT Group is external to esure Group plc and esure Group plc is not liable in respect of the VAT Group.
Goodwill and amortisation There were no indicators of impairment of the investment in the joint venture in the periods reported and as a result no impairment testing was performed on goodwill and intangible assets.
Risks associated with the interest in the joint venture The two principal risks facing Gocompare are uncertainty regarding future regulatory changes and the highly competitive environment in which it operates, specifically the potential impact of continued rises in media costs impacting both profitability and customer volumes.
Dividends received from the joint venture The Group received dividends from Gocompare during 2013 of 6.0m 2012: 5.5m.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 84 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 12 Finance costs Finance costs in each period represents the total interest expense calculated using the effective interest rate method.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Interest expense Perpetual Subordinated Loan Notes see note 18 2.2 9.5 Interest credit on unsecured loan notes see note 18 0.3 Total finance costs 2.2 9.2 13 Taxation Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Current taxes on income for the reporting period 25.4 28.3 Total current tax 25.4 28.3 Deferred tax credit for the reporting period 0.2 0.8 Effect of change in tax rate 0.0 0.1 Total deferred tax 0.2 0.9 Taxation expense 25.2 27.4 The tax rate used for the calculations is the Corporation Tax rate of 23.25% 2012: 24.5% payable by corporate entities in the UK on taxable profits under tax law in that jurisdiction.
The deferred tax rates used are those that apply to the year the tax charge or credit is expected to materialise.
The expense for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax per the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Profit before taxation 118.4 115.5 Taxation calculated at 23.25% 2012: 24.5% 27.5 28.3 Effect of expenses that are not deductible 0.4 1.3 Adjustments in relation to the current tax of prior years 0.7 0.3 Non-taxable income 2.0 1.8 Change in tax rate 0.0 0.1 Taxation expense 25.2 27.4 Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Tax recognised directly in equity Deferred tax credit recognised directly in equity 0.0 Total tax recognised directly in equity 0.0 The deferred tax recognised directly in equity relates to deferred tax arising on share-based payments where the amount of the estimated future tax deduction exceeds the amount of the related cumulative remuneration expense recognised.
Factors affecting the tax charge for future periods It has been announced, and substantively enacted on 2 July 2013, that the Corporation Tax rate will be reduced to 21% with effect from 1 April 2014, and further reduced to 20% from 1 April 2015.
As the changes have been substantively enacted as at the balance sheet date, the announced changes are reflected in the deferred tax liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2013.
14 Dividends An interim dividend per share of 2.5p 10.4m was declared by the Board of Directors on 6 August 2013.
No dividends were declared in the year ended 2012 by the Group.
Subsequent to the year end, a dividend per share of 13.3p 55.4m was declared by the Board of Directors.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Earnings Per Share Basic Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Group and the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period, excluding Ordinary Shares held as employee trust shares.
Diluted Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to the owners of the Group by the weighted average of Ordinary Shares in issue during the period adjusted for any dilutive potential Ordinary Shares.
The difference between the basic and diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period, being 135,848 2012: nil, relates to the dilutive potential of the share-based payment arrangements.
Details of share awards are set out in note 26.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group undertook a number of capital transactions, in anticipation and upon Admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
On 21 February 2013, the share capital of the Group was reduced by the cancellation of 4,000,000,000 Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each and 40 million cash was paid to Tosca Penta Investments LP out of existing financial resources.
On 25 February 2013, each A, B and C Ordinary Share was subdivided into 12 shares of the same class.
Immediately prior to Admission, 1 these 399,600,000 shares of pence, were converted into a single class of Ordinary Share.
12 On Admission the Group repurchased from Tosca Penta Investments LP the remaining 4,485,014,000 Non-Voting Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each at par amounting, in total, to 44.85 million and the 1,000 Redeemable Priority Return Shares of 0.01 each.
1 The Group issued 17,241,380 new Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of pence each on 27 March 2013 for a total aggregate 12 amount of 50 million.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for comparative periods has been adjusted accordingly.
Where there has been no change in existing resources, the calculation has been adjusted retrospectively to reflect these changes: where there has been a change in resources, the calculation has been adjusted from the date of that change in resources.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Profit after taxation 93.2 88.1 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million basic 2,037.7 8,883.0 Unadjusted earnings per share basic pence per share 4.57 0.99 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares million diluted 2,037.9 8,883.0 Unadjusted earnings per share diluted pence per share 4.57 0.99 Please refer to note 25 for a description of the distribution rights of each type of share in issue.
Pro forma earnings per Ordinary Share Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Profit after taxation m 93.2 88.1 Number of Ordinary Shares million in issue 416.8 416.8 Pro forma earnings per Ordinary Share pence per share 22.4 21.1 Pro forma earnings per Ordinary Share is calculated as profit after tax divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue on Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
There have been no changes to the number of Ordinary Shares in issue since Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 86 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 16 Intangible assets Acquired Customer Software brands relationships Total m m m m Cost As at 31 December 2011 3.6 24.2 11.3 39.1 Additions in the year 0.5 0.5 As at 31 December 2012 4.1 24.2 11.3 39.6 Additions in the year 0.6 0.6 Disposals in the year As at 31 December 2013 4.7 24.2 11.3 40.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment As at 31 December 2011 1.4 8.8 8.8 19.0 Charge for the year 0.8 1.8 1.4 4.0 As at 31 December 2012 2.2 10.6 10.2 23.0 Charge for the year 0.7 2.3 0.6 3.6 As at 31 December 2013 2.9 12.9 10.8 26.6 Net book value As at 31 December 2012 1.9 13.6 1.1 16.6 As at 31 December 2013 1.8 11.3 0.5 13.6 The acquired brands intangible asset represents the First Alternative, Sheilas Wheels and esure brands.
The Sheilas Wheels and esure brands were acquired by the Group as part of the acquisition of esure Holdings Limited in 2010 and were fair valued at the date of acquisition in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3.
The customer relationships intangible asset represents customer relationships acquired by the Group as part of the acquisition of esure Holdings Limited in 2010 and were fair valued at the date of acquisition in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3.
Impairment testing on intangible assets The Group tests intangible assets with finite useful lives for impairment where there are indicators that their carrying value may be impaired.
Software There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
Brands First Alternative The intangible asset has been fully impaired since 31 December 2011.
Sheilas Wheels and esure There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
Customer relationships There were no indicators of impairment in the periods reported and as a result no impairment testing was performed.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Land and fittings and buildings equipment Total m m m Cost As at 31 December 2011 12.6 4.4 17.0 Additions in the year 1.0 1.0 Revaluation of land and buildings 1.2 1.2 Disposals in the year As at 31 December 2012 11.4 5.4 16.8 Additions in the year 1.9 1.9 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.2 0.2 Disposals in the year As at 31 December 2013 11.6 7.3 18.9 Accumulated depreciation As at 31 December 2011 0.2 2.3 2.5 Charge for the year 0.2 1.1 1.3 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.4 0.4 As at 31 December 2012 3.4 3.4 Charge for the year 0.1 0.9 1.0 Revaluation of land and buildings 0.1 0.1 As at 31 December 2013 4.3 4.3 Carrying amount As at 31 December 2012 11.4 2.0 13.4 As at 31 December 2013 11.6 3.0 14.6 Owner-occupied properties are stated at their revalued amounts, as assessed by qualified external valuers annually, all with recent relevant experience.
These values are assessed in accordance with the relevant parts of the current RICS Valuation Standards in the UK Red Book.
More frequent revaluations are performed by management to assess that the carrying amount does not materially differ from its fair value.
This assessment, on the basis of existing use value and in accordance with UK Valuation Standard 1.3, is the estimated amount for which a property should exchange on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an arms length transaction, after proper marketing wherein the parties had acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion, assuming that the buyer is granted vacant possession of all parts of the property required by the business and disregarding potential alternative uses and any other characteristics of the property that would cause its market value to differ from that needed to replace the remaining service potential at least cost.
The valuation assessment adopts market-based evidence and is in line with guidance from the International Valuation Standards Committee and the requirements of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment.
Independent valuations were performed as at 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012.
If land and buildings were held under the cost model, land and buildings would have a carrying value at 31 December 2013 of 12.1m 31 December 2012: 12.2m.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 88 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 18 Financial assets and liabilities 18.1 Financial assets As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Financial investments designated at FVTPL Shares and other variable-yield securities and units in unit trusts 27.3 29.4 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 612.0 617.0 Deposits with credit institutions 99.8 132.4 Financial investments held for trading: Derivative financial instruments 2.1 0.4 Financial investments 741.2 779.2 Loans and receivables: Insurance and other receivables note 20 153.4 144.0 Cash and cash equivalents note 22 27.6 39.4 Total financial assets 922.2 962.6 Financial investments are held to support the Groups insurance activities and may be required to be realised in order to meet the obligations arising out of those activities at any time.
On that basis, the investments are deemed to be recoverable within 12 months.
Derivative financial instruments, at fair value through profit or loss To eliminate as far as possible the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the value of investments denominated in currencies other than Sterling, the Group has purchased over-the-counter forward currency contracts.
The Group also uses government bond futures as a mechanism to adjust investment portfolio duration.
The Groups exposure to currency risk is set out in note 18.3a iii.
18.2 Financial liabilities As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Financial liabilities held for trading: Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.3 Other financial liabilities: Borrowings see below 50.0 Insurance and other payables note 23 22.9 22.8 Total financial liabilities 23.0 73.1 As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Borrowings Perpetual Subordinated Loan Notes 50.0 Total borrowings 50.0 Derivative financial instruments are due within one year.
All of the subordinated loan note liability at 31 December 2012 was perpetual and there was no contractual maturity date.
"Perpetual Subordinated Loan Notes On 11 February 2010, esure Finance Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking, created and issued 50,000,000 unsecured perpetual subordinated loan notes of 1 each the ""Perpetual Subordinated Loan Notes""."
The interest rate was 18.9% per annum, paid annually.
The Perpetual Subordinated Loan Notes were listed on the Channel Islands Stock Exchange.
On 28 March 2013 the Perpetual Subordinated Loan Notes were repaid by the Group following Admission of esure Group plc to the London Stock Exchange.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives The Group is exposed to a range of financial risks through its financial assets, financial liabilities, reinsurance assets and policyholder liabilities.
In particular, the key financial risk is that the proceeds from financial assets are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from insurance policies as they fall due.
The most important components of this financial risk are market risk including interest rate risk, equity price risk and currency risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
a Market risk These risks arise from open positions in interest rate, currency and equity products, all of which are exposed to general and specific market movements.
The market risks that the Group primarily faces due to the nature of its investments and liabilities are interest rate risk and equity price risk.
The Group manages market risk by virtue of its risk management framework, incorporating the Groups Risk Appetite and setting an appropriate investment strategy.
The majority of investments held are listed and traded on the UK and other recognised stock exchanges.
The Group has a defined investment strategy and market risk policy which sets limits on the Groups exposure by setting, where applicable, duration, issuer and concentration limits for each asset class.
The Groups Board appoints members to the Groups Investment Committee who are responsible for recommending future investment strategy, guidelines and policies, in line with the Board-approved Risk Appetite, for the Boards approval.
Ultimately, the Board is responsible for setting the investment strategy, defining the risk appetite and appointing investment managers.
The-day-to-day management of investments is delegated to the investment fund managers and monitored by the Investment Committee.
Investment Committee meetings, chaired by a Non-Executive Director, are held at least quarterly.
At these meetings, Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and senior managers meet to discuss investment performance, composition and strategy across the Groups portfolio.
i Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises primarily from investments in fixed interest securities.
The Investment Committee balances the portfolio of investments to manage the exposure to interest rate risk.
In addition, to the extent that claims inflation is correlated to interest rates, liabilities to policyholders are exposed to interest rate risk.
The Group monitors interest rate risk on a monthly basis by calculating the mean duration of key elements of the investment portfolio and of the liabilities to policyholders under insurance contracts.
The mean duration is an indicator of the sensitivity of the assets and liabilities to changes in current interest rates.
The mean duration of the technical liabilities is determined by means of projecting expected cash flows using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
Asset allocation decisions made by the Investment Committee give due consideration to the duration and profile of liabilities to avoid any significant mismatch in the asset and liability profiles.
In order to preserve capital and to reduce the risk of an investment loss due to interest rate movements, it is acceptable for the duration of the asset portfolio, to be shorter, but not longer than the average duration of the liabilities.
The Groups investment managers also have the ability to use Government bond futures as a mechanism to ensure portfolio duration remains within strict limits.
The sensitivity analysis for interest rate risk illustrates how changes in the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates at the reporting date.
For an increase of 100 basis points in interest yields the profit before tax for the period would decrease by 7.7m 2012: 7.1m.
For a decrease of 25 basis points in interest yields the profit before tax for the period would increase by 1.9m 2012: 1.6m.
ii Equity price risk The Group is exposed to equity securities price risk as a result of its holdings in investments with prices quoted on a stock exchange and classified as financial assets at FVTPL.
Exposures to individual companies and to equity shares in aggregate are monitored in order to ensure compliance with the relevant regulatory limits for solvency purposes.
If equity market indices had increased decreased by 10%, the profit before tax for the year would increase decrease by 2.7m 2012: 2.9m.
iii Currency risk The Group has exposure to currency risk in respect of certain investments denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
At the reporting date the most significant currencies to which the Group is exposed are Euros and US Dollars USD.
The Group seeks to mitigate currency risk by the use of forward contracts and other derivatives, with a maturity of less than three months from the reporting date, matching the estimated foreign currency denominated assets with liabilities denominated in the same currency.
Strict agreements are in place with investment managers to ensure all non-Sterling debt securities and other fixed income securities are hedged to between 99.5% and 100.5% of the carrying value.
One investment manager, who holds shares and other variable yield securities, is not required to hedge out all currency risk.
The maximum permitted value of shares and other variable yield securities which may have unhedged currency risk exposure, per the investment managers mandate, is 8.7m 2012: nil.
At the reporting date the Group has direct exposure to both USD and Swiss francs CHF through shares with a value of less than 0.5m.
If the Sterling rates with either of these foreign currencies had strengthened weakened by 10%, the profit before tax for the year would increase decrease by 0.0m 2012: nil.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 90 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued b Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not be able to pay amounts in full when due in accordance with the term of the contract, causing the Group to incur a financial loss.
Key areas where the Group is exposed to credit risk are: Credit instruments held within the investment portfolio: Other amounts due from investment counterparties: Reinsurers share of insurance contract liabilities: Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid: Amounts due from policyholders: Subrogation and salvage recoveries: and Amounts due from claims suppliers.
Reinsurance is used to manage insurance risk.
This does not, however, discharge the Groups liability as primary insurer.
If a reinsurer fails to pay a claim, the Group remains liable for the payment to the policyholder.
The creditworthiness of reinsurers is considered on an annual basis by reviewing their financial strength prior to finalisation of any contract.
In addition, management assesses the creditworthiness of all reinsurers by reviewing credit grades provided by rating agencies and other publicly available financial information.
An analysis of the credit grade of the Groups 10 largest exposures to reinsurers by Standard & Poors S&P and A. M. Best ratings is produced and reviewed on a monthly basis.
The minimum credit rating that the Group requires for participation in its reinsurance programmes is Standard & Poors Aor the A. M. Best equivalent.
The Group manages the levels of investment counterparty credit risk it accepts by placing limits on its exposure to a single counterparty, or groups of counterparties, and on geographical counterparties and geographical segments.
Such risks are subject to regular review by the Investment Committee.
Investments bearing credit risk, and cash and cash equivalents, are summarised below, together with an analysis by credit rating as at the reporting date: As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Derivative financial instruments 2.1 0.4 Debt securities 612.0 617.0 Deposits with credit institutions 99.8 132.4 Cash at bank and in hand 27.6 39.4 Investments bearing credit risk and cash and cash equivalents 741.5 789.2 AAA 285.3 365.2 AA 164.2 99.5 A 177.9 229.7 BBB 62.6 58.1 Below BBB or not rated 51.5 36.7 Investments bearing credit risk and cash and cash equivalents 741.5 789.2 Shares and other variable-yield securities and units in unit trusts do not bear credit risk.
Cash and cash equivalents are A rated.
The analysis by credit rating illustrates a slight reduction in credit quality over the period under review, with a lower proportion of assets rated AAA in 2013 compared to 2012.
This is, as stated in note 25, due to the repayment on Admission of 84.9m of capital instruments funded by a commensurate reduction in money market funds.
The Group continues to hold the majority of its assets in strong investment grade instruments.
Assets not subject to credit rating are primarily insurance receivables due from policyholders and other debtors.
Owing to the high number of individual policyholders through which the Group has minimal individual exposure, the overall risk of default to the Group is considered to be insignificant.
The Group regularly reviews the ageing and individual characteristics of the counterparties of insurance receivables and other debtors to manage credit risk and to ensure that impairments are made where necessary.
No credit limits were exceeded during the year, and no significant financial assets are past due but not impaired at the reporting date.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, nil 2012: 2.0m was charged to other operating expenses in the consolidated income statement in respect of a financial asset classified as an other debtor that was individually determined to be impaired following a claims supplier entering into administration.
No provision account was used for the impairment and no reversal of the impairment has been made during 2013. esure Group Annual Report 2013 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued The following table gives an analysis by age of the impaired debtor at the reporting date: As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Not due 0.7 0 to 30 days past due 0.7 31 to 60 days past due 0.6 Over one year past due 2.0 Total impaired debtor 2.0 2.0 c Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, either does not have available sufficient financial resources to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, or can secure them only at excessive cost.
The primary liquidity risk of the Group is the obligation to pay claims to policyholders as they fall due.
Liquidity risk is minimal due to the nature of the business, which is such that material liabilities are driven by claims costs, which have a significant lead time from notification to payment.
In order to mitigate liquidity risk, the maturity of the technical liabilities is determined by means of projecting expected cash flows using standard actuarial claims projection techniques.
Asset allocation decisions made by the Investment Committee give due consideration to the maturity and profile of liabilities to ensure that the maturity of assets is equal to or shorter than the maturity of liabilities.
The table below analyses the contractual maturity of the Groups financial assets excluding shares and other variable-yield securities and units in unit trusts, salvage and subrogation assets, financial liabilities and outstanding claims.
The analysis of non derivative financial liabilities and assets is based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
The analysis of claims outstanding is based on the expected dates on which the claims will be settled.
The amounts disclosed in the tables represent undiscounted cash flows and include payments of both principal and interest: Less than Between More than Carrying 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total value m m m m m Financial assets excluding shares and other variable-yield securities and units in unit trusts, salvage and subrogation assets and reinsurers share of claims outstanding At 31 December 2013 Derivative financial instruments 2.1 2.1 2.1 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 140.8 402.6 103.1 646.5 612.0 Deposits with credit institutions 99.8 99.8 99.8 Cash at bank and in hand 27.6 27.6 27.6 Loans and receivables including salvage and subrogation assets 171.9 3.0 174.9 174.9 Total excluding reinsurers share of outstanding claims 442.2 405.6 103.1 950.9 916.4 Reinsurers share of outstanding claims 25.7 124.9 57.9 208.5 208.5 Total  1,124.9 Financial and insurance liabilities At 31 December 2013 Borrowings Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 0.1 Insurance and other payables 22.9 22.9 22.9 Financial liabilities 23.0 23.0 23.0 Claims outstanding 217.3 342.1 99.7 659.1 659.1 Financial and insurance liabilities 240.3 342.1 99.7 682.1 682.1 esure Group Annual Report 2013 92 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued Less than Between More than Carrying 1 year 1 and 5 years 5 years Total value m m m m m Financial assets excluding shares and other variable-yield securities and units in unit trusts, salvage and subrogation assets and reinsurers share of claims outstanding At 31 December 2012 Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.4 0.4 Debt securities and other fixed income securities 138.6 447.6 74.5 660.7 617.0 Deposits with credit institutions 132.4 132.4 132.4 Cash at bank and in hand 39.4 39.4 39.4 Loans and receivables including salvage and subrogation assets 159.9 1.2 161.1 161.1 Total excluding reinsurers share of outstanding claims 470.7 448.8 74.5 994.0 950.3 Reinsurers share of outstanding claims 21.9 141.0 56.8 219.7 219.7 Total 492.6 589.8 131.3 1,213.7 1,170.0 Financial and insurance liabilities At 31 December 2012 Borrowings 50.0 50.0 50.0 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 0.3 Insurance and other payables 22.8 22.8 22.8 Financial liabilities 23.1 50.0 73.1 73.1 Claims outstanding 220.7 354.4 116.7 691.8 691.8 Financial and insurance liabilities 243.8 404.4 116.7 764.9 764.9 d Capital management The Group maintains a capital structure consistent with the Groups risk profile and the regulatory and market requirements of its business.
The Groups objectives in managing capital are: To match the profile of its assets and liabilities, taking account of the risks inherent in the business: To satisfy the requirements of its policyholders and regulators: To maintain financial strength to support business growth: and To retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong liquidity and access to a range of capital markets.
The Group manages as capital all items that are eligible to be treated as capital for regulatory purposes.
This includes equity, allowing for regulatory adjustments and mark to model based valuation of the Groups interest in Gocompare.
Following the repayment of the Perpetual Subordinated Loan Notes in March 2013 none of the Groups capital is in the form of debt.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued Insurance Group Directive The Group has a strong capital position and has an Insurance Group Directive IGD coverage ratio of 308% 2012: 350%.
Pro forma As at As at As at 31 Dec2013 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2012 m m m Statutory solvency capital Ordinary shareholders equity 274.2 190.2 231.1 Regulatory adjustments 61.4 56.3 56.3 Final dividend 55.4 Total tier 1 capital 280.2 246.5 287.4 Tier 2 capital 50.0 Total regulatory capital resources 280.2 246.5 337.4 European Insurance Group Directive IGD IGD required capital 90.9 96.4 96.4 IGD excess solvency 189.3 150.1 241.0 IGD coverage ratio 308% 256% 350% The pro forma 2012 position has been amended to reflect the capital structure of the Group following Admission to the London Stock Exchange.
Refer to note 25 for more detail.
Economic capital In addition to Group capital requirements established under the IGD, the solo insurance company, esure Insurance Limited, is also subject to Individual Capital Guidance ICG set by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
The guidance is set by the PRA on a periodic basis following the submission of a risk-based Individual Capital Assessment ICA.
The ICA, and thus ICG, are typically greater than the IGD and it is these that the Group use to determine its economic capital requirements.
This approach indicates that the economic capital requirement for the Group, inclusive of an appropriate buffer, is currently broadly equivalent to 40% of net written premiums.
e Fair value estimation In accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement financial instruments held at FVTPL have been categorised into a fair value measurement hierarchy as follows: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 1 Inputs to Level 1 fair values are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets.
An active market is a market in which transactions for the asset occur with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices Level 2 Fair value measurements that are derived from inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, if all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, would result in the instrument being included in Level 2.
The majority of assets classified as Level 2 are over-the-counter corporate bonds, where trades are less frequent owing to the nature of the assets.
Inputs used in pricing the Groups level 2 assets include: Quoted prices for similar, i. e. not identical, assets in active markets: Quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, the prices are not current, or price quotations vary among market makers, or in which little information is released publicly: Inputs that are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation: and For forward foreign exchange contracts, the use of observable forward exchange rates at the balance sheet date, with the resulting value discounted back to present value.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 94 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 18 Financial assets and liabilities continued 18.3 Financial risk management objectives continued The Groups policy should there be a change to the valuation techniques or level of activity in the market in which that asset is traded, is to transfer the asset between levels effective from the beginning of the reporting period.
As a result of the application of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, from 1 January 2013, the Group has revisited the fair value hierarchy and now classifies all corporate bonds as Level 2 assets with the exception of Government backed securities which are classified as Level 1 unless they are illiquid.
As a result of the change, 14.0m has been transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 in the year.
In addition, 3.0m of debt securities have been transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 in the year as a result of insufficient trade frequency for the assets to be classified as Level 1.
Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs Level 3 Unobservable inputs have been used to measure fair value to the extent that observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset at the measurement date or market information for the inputs to any valuation models.
As such, unobservable inputs reflect assumptions about the inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
The Group held Level 3 equity securities of 17.8m at 31 December 2012, representing an investment in a managed fund.
Although the fair value was calculated using simple models and extrapolation techniques by reference to the observable market prices of the underlying assets, the fund was closed to new investment during 2011 and hence reclassified from level 2 to level 3 due to the illiquidity of the fund.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, 4.7m was credited to the income statement in respect of Level 3 financial assets.
At 31 December 2012, the majority of investments held by the fund classified at Level 3 were listed investments.
Therefore, no sensitivity analysis was performed due to the nature of the investments.
Following the Groups decision to sell its holding in a managed fund, there are no Level 3 assets, other than land and buildings, as at 31 December 2013.
The total sales proceeds for these financial assets was 21.7m.
Cumulative unrealised losses of 3.0m were reversed on the sale of these Level 3 financial assets and realised gains of 1.0m were recorded in investment income.
Under IFRS 13, land and buildings with a carrying value of 11.6m 2012: 11.4m are now classified as Level 3 assets.
Owner-occupied properties are stated at their revalued amounts, as assessed by qualified external valuers annually, all with recent relevant experience.
The valuers opinion of fair value was primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms length terms.
The following table presents the Groups assets and liabilities measured at fair value: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total fair value At 31 December 2013 m m m m Financial assets Assets at FVTPL: Derivative financial instruments 2.1 2.1 Equity securities 27.3 27.3 Debt securities 130.7 481.3 612.0 Deposits with credit institutions 99.8 99.8 Total financial assets at FVTPL 257.8 483.4 741.2 Land and buildings 11.6 11.6 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Total financial liabilities at FVTPL 0.1 0.1 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total fair value At 31 December 2012 m m m m Financial assets Assets at FVTPL: Derivative financial instruments 0.4 0.4 Equity securities 11.6 17.8 29.4 Debt securities 84.7 532.3 617.0 Deposits with credit institutions 132.4 132.4 Total financial assets at FVTPL 217.1 544.3 17.8 779.2 Land and buildings 11.4 11.4 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 Total financial liabilities at FVTPL 0.3 0.3 esure Group Annual Report 2013 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities 19.1 Insurance Risk Insurance risk arises from the inherent uncertainties as to the occurrence, amount and timing of insured events that could lead to significant individual or aggregated claims in terms of quantity or value.
These would include significant weather related events and personal injury claims.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall underwriting strategy and defining the Risk Appetite, with monitoring delegated to the Pricing Committee.
The Group uses excess of loss reinsurance contracts to mitigate insurance risk, essentially by reducing exposure to large individual claims or aggregated losses from single events.
Underwriting and pricing risk The Group underwrites general insurance business for private cars and homes in mainland Britain and the associated additional insurance products.
The book consists of a large number of individual policies spread across the whole geographic area which helps to minimise concentration risk especially in terms of weather-related risks.
As well as pricing the Group has additional controls in place to segment the market and target those segments it wishes to underwrite.
Further systems and controls are in place to mitigate application fraud risk.
The Group has systems and management information in place to continually monitor underwriting performance and pricing adequacy through the Pricing Committee.
Claims management risk The Group employs a variety of strategies to ensure the correct claims are paid in a timely manner and reserve provisions made on a case-by-case basis to reflect the Groups future liabilities.
These include: A well resourced and expertly trained staff benefit from the latest image and workflow technology to control paper flow and procedures to enhance efficiency and effectiveness: The Group manages its own network of motor repairers and dedicated teams offer an extensive range of services directly to not at fault third parties to efficiently control credit hire cost and legal fees: Comprehensive anti-fraud strategies are in place to check both fraudulent claims and new business applications: and All claims teams operating from the UK and more specialised teams handle large liability and property damage claims in a dedicated technical unit.
Reinsurance The Group purchases reinsurance as a risk transfer mechanism to mitigate risks that are outside the Groups appetite for individual claim or event exposure and to reduce the volatility caused by large individual and accumulation losses.
By doing so the Group protects its capital and the underwriting result of each line of business.
Currently the Group has in place non-proportional excess of loss reinsurance programmes for its motor and home underwriting activities.
These cover both individual large losses and accumulation losses arising from natural and other catastrophe events.
Motor reinsurance treaties are in place covering all years in which the Group has underwritten motor policies.
At the present time the Group has no quota share reinsurance or co-insurance arrangements in place.
The Groups reinsurance programmes are reviewed on an annual basis and capital modelling is used to identify the most appropriate structure and risk retention profile, taking into account the Groups business objective of minimising volatility and the prevailing cost and availability of reinsurance in the market.
Counterparty credit risk is a key consideration when the Group enters into reinsurance treaties.
See note 18.3 b for more detail.
Reserving risk Reserving risk is defined as the uncertainty regarding either the current level of reserves or the payment distribution over their lifetime.
The Group analyses and projects historical claims development data and uses a number of actuarial techniques to both test and forecast claims provisions.
In addition the Group also provides data to external actuaries who assess the adequacy of the Groups claims provisions.
Apart from historical analyses the Group also takes into account changes in risk profile and underwriting policy conditions, changes in legislation or regulation and changes in other external factors.
The claims provision is sensitive to the number and cost of large motor claims which have been incurred but not reported and reserved.
Typically the Group would expect a number of large claims from expired risks to be identified in the future, either from being newly reported or from existing claims increasing in magnitude.
The claims provision allows for an expected level of such claims.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 96 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued Claims subject to periodic payment orders PPOs are an area of uncertainty relating to the claims provision at 31 December 2013.
For known PPOs and claims which have been identified as potential PPO awards, cash flow projections are carried out in order to estimate an ultimate cost on a gross and net of reinsurance basis.
The cash flow projections were undertaken on a discounted basis.
The total net claims provision recognised for PPOs and potential PPOs in the consolidated statement of financial position represents less than 5% of net claims outstanding at 31 December 2013.
In the context of the Groups approach to the mitigation and management of underwriting risk, its reinsurance programme including its approach to mitigating counterparty credit risk and the Groups prudent approach to reserving for potential PPOs, the risk of an adverse development of the Groups reserves for PPO claims is not considered to be significant.
In addition, the Ministry of Justice has been reviewing the discount rate used in the calculation of damage awards in bodily injury and fatal claims for some time.
At the date these financial statements were approved the discount rate used in these calculations remained at 2.5%.
However, while individual case reserves have been established by applying this current discount rate, an allowance has been made within the total reserves to reflect an assumed reduction of one percentage point.
The impact of this allowance is to increase the net claims provision recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position by less than 2.0m at 31 December 2013.
In the context of the Groups reinsurance programme and its approach to the mitigation of reinsurance counterparty credit risk, a reduction in the discount rate is unlikely to result in a material deterioration of the Groups financial performance.
The Groups policy is to hold sufficient provisions, including those to cover claims which have been incurred but not reported IBNR to meet all liabilities as they fall due.
Apart from that part of the provisions relating to PPOs, claims provisions are not discounted.
The Directors remain satisfied that the outstanding claims reserves included in these financial statements provide an appropriate margin over projected ultimate claims costs.
19.2 Analysis of recognised amounts As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Gross Claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling expenses 659.1 691.8 Unearned premiums 265.3 255.6 Total insurance liabilities, gross 924.4 947.4 Recoverable from reinsurers Claims outstanding 208.5 219.7 Unearned premiums 17.5 13.7 Total reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 226.0 233.4 Net Claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling expenses 450.6 472.1 Unearned premiums 247.8 241.9 Total insurance liabilities, net 698.4 714.0 Due within one year gross 482.6 476.7 Due in more than one year gross 441.8 470.7 As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 Reinsurance assets m m Reinsurers share of insurance liabilities 226.0 233.4 Total assets arising from reinsurance contracts 226.0 233.4 Recoverable within one year 43.2 35.6 Recoverable in more than one year 182.8 197.8 Amounts due from reinsurers in respect of claims already paid by the Group on the contracts that are reinsured are included in insurance and other receivables note 20.
No reinsurance assets have been impaired.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued Claims outstanding and claims handling expenses are shown before deducting amounts in respect of salvage and subrogation.
As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Claims outstanding before deduction of salvage and subrogation recoveries and claims handling 450.6 472.1 Salvage and subrogation recoveries 21.5 17.1 Claims outstanding and claims handling expenses 429.1 455.0 19.3 Sensitivity of recognised amounts to changes in assumptions The following table shows the impact of a 1% variation in the loss ratio on profit or loss and shareholders equity after tax as at 31 December 2013: Accident year 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Net loss ratio 64% 63% 70% 68% 86% 96% 80% 64% 74% 83% Impact of 1% variation m 1.9 2.1 2.0 2.5 3.3 4.0 3.5 3.5 3.7 3.8 The impact is stated net of reinsurance and tax at the current rate.
19.4 Claims development tables The development of insurance liabilities provides a measure of the Groups ability to estimate the ultimate value of claims.
Tables a and b illustrate how the Groups estimate of total claims incurred for each accident year has developed over the past ten years, including a reconciliation to the claims liability reported in the consolidated balance sheet.
esure Group plc acquired esure Holdings Limited on 11 February 2010.
The estimated claims disclosed in the tables prior to the date of acquisition are those of esure Holdings Limited.
Table c expresses the development of net incurred claims by reference to the loss ratio for each accident year over the past ten years.
a Insurance claims gross ultimate claims m Accident year 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 TOTAL Ultimate gross earned premium 262.2 288.8 276.7 335.9 447.1 544.3 479.1 488.7 511.7 526.1 4,160.6 Estimate of ultimate gross claims costs: At end of reporting year 190.9 222.0 225.8 289.2 399.1 540.2 475.3 392.7 442.0 439.5 One year later 197.4 212.8 220.5 268.8 398.2 535.3 416.8 355.7 399.8 Two years later 196.3 207.5 219.7 242.0 407.5 536.6 399.0 331.5 Three years later 183.5 194.0 207.9 233.0 399.9 549.8 380.6 Four years later 173.5 187.4 205.5 232.9 382.9 534.0 Five years later 168.0 186.6 203.4 229.4 381.3 Six years later 166.7 186.0 215.4 228.0 Seven years later 166.8 188.2 209.0 Eight years later 166.6 186.8 Nine years later 166.6 Current estimate of cumulative claims 166.6 186.8 209.0 228.0 381.3 534.0 380.6 331.5 399.8 439.5 3,257.1 Cumulative payments to date 166.5 178.6 188.4 216.6 356.6 479.0 346.1 249.2 266.8 193.4 2,641.2 Liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position 615.9 Reserve in respect of prior periods 9.4 Provision for claims handling costs 12.3 Salvage and subrogation 21.5 Total reserve included in the consolidated statement of financial position 659.1 esure Group Annual Report 2013 98 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued b Insurance claims net ultimate claims m Accident year 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 TOTAL Ultimate net earned premium 248.3 276.5 263.9 321.4 424.1 514.9 452.1 459.7 480.2 489.2 3,930.3 Estimate of ultimate claims costs: At end of reporting year 178.2 203.1 208.5 270.9 374.5 510.3 446.8 360.1 401.0 404.7 One year later 180.0 198.6 204.3 254.9 373.8 495.0 392.5 317.3 356.7 Two years later 178.3 194.6 203.1 227.0 372.0 495.0 374.6 296.4 Three years later 168.5 185.1 193.7 220.0 371.7 495.1 363.9 Four years later 160.8 179.5 188.2 223.5 367.6 494.5 Five years later 159.2 176.3 187.1 219.8 366.3 Six years later 158.7 175.6 187.0 218.3 Seven years later 158.6 175.6 184.7 Eight years later 158.3 175.4 Nine years later 158.2 Current estimate of cumulative claims 158.2 175.4 184.7 218.3 366.3 494.5 363.9 296.4 356.7 404.7 3,019.1 Cumulative payments to date 158.2 175.3 182.2 211.7 354.5 471.6 343.1 248.1 264.0 193.7 2,602.4 Liability recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position 416.7 Reserve in respect of prior periods 0.1 Provision for claims handling costs 12.3 Salvage and subrogation 21.5 Total net reserve included in the consolidated statement of financial position 450.6 c Insurance claims net loss ratio development Accident year 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Estimate of ultimate loss ratio: At end of reporting year 72% 73% 79% 84% 88% 99% 99% 78% 84% 83% One year later 73% 72% 77% 79% 88% 96% 87% 69% 74% Two years later 72% 70% 77% 71% 88% 96% 83% 64% Three years later 68% 67% 73% 69% 88% 96% 80% Four years later 65% 65% 71% 70% 87% 96% Five years later 64% 64% 71% 68% 86% Six years later 64% 64% 71% 68% Seven years later 64% 64% 70% Eight years later 64% 63% Nine years later 64% esure Group Annual Report 2013 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Reinsurance assets and insurance contract liabilities continued 19.5 Movements in insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets a Claims reported and claims handling expenses m. The movements in claims reported, including claims handling expenses, both gross and net of reinsurance RI, are shown below: 2013 2012 Gross RI Net Gross RI Net At 1 January 660.4 219.7 440.7 592.5 160.5 432.0 Cash paid for claims settled in year 361.3 15.1 346.2 328.2 4.8 323.4 Change arising from: Current year claims 439.5 34.8 404.7 442.0 41.0 401.0 Prior year claims 113.3 30.9 82.4 45.9 23.0 68.9 Total at end of year 625.3 208.5 416.8 660.4 219.7 440.7 Provision for claims handling costs 12.3 12.3 14.3 14.3 Salvage and subrogation 21.5 21.5 17.1 17.1 Total reserve per balance sheet 659.1 208.5 450.6 691.8 219.7 472.1 Claims incurred and claims handling expenses as disclosed in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income comprise: Year ended 31 Dec 2013 Year ended 31 Dec 2012 Gross RI Net Gross RI Net Claims incurred 326.2 3.9 322.3 396.1 64.0 332.1 Claims handling expenses 15.4 15.4 17.3 17.3 Claims incurred and claims handling expenses 341.6 3.9 337.7 413.4 64.0 349.4 Following the inclusion of an allowance within total reserves for an assumed reduction of one percentage point in the Ogden discount rate from 31 December 2012, the Group increased its estimate of gross claims outstanding and claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers.
During 2013, the Group continued to experience favourable development of prior accident year reserves resulting in a reduction in both gross claims outstanding and claims outstanding recoverable from reinsurers as at 31 December 2013. b Provisions for unearned premiums m The movements for the year, both gross and net of reinsurance, are summarised below: 2013 2012 Gross RI Net Gross RI Net Unearned premium provision At beginning of the year 255.6 13.7 241.9 252.3 12.4 239.9 Premiums written in the year 535.8 40.7 495.1 515.0 32.8 482.2 Premiums earned in the year 526.1 36.9 489.2 511.7 31.5 480.2 At the end of year 265.3 17.5 247.8 255.6 13.7 241.9 20 Insurance and other receivables As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Insurance receivables 150.8 142.1 Prepayments and accrued income 5.7 7.9 Other debtors 2.6 1.9 Salvage and subrogation assets 21.5 17.1 Total insurance and other receivables 180.6 169.0 Insurance receivables and other debtors are financial assets classified as loans and receivables.
For more details see note 18, which includes the ageing of these loans and receivables.
The Directors believe the carrying value of these financial assets approximates their fair value.
During 2012, an impairment of 2.0m was made for an individually impaired financial asset recognised in other debtors.
For more detail, see note 18.3 b.
All insurance receivables and other receivables are recoverable within one year, aside from 3.0m of salvage and subrogation assets which are recoverable in more than one year 2012: 1.2m.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 100 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 21 Deferred acquisition costs Movement in the deferred acquisition costs asset are as follows: 2013 2012 Deferred Acquisition Costs m m At 1 January 25.9 23.4 Movement during the period 2.2 2.5 At 31 December 28.1 25.9 Deferred acquisition costs are recoverable within one year.
22 Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Cash at bank and in hand 27.6 39.4 Total 27.6 39.4 23 Insurance and other payables As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Insurance payables 14.1 13.6 Accrued expenses 25.8 34.3 Social security and other taxes 8.8 9.2 Deferred income 12.5 12.3 Total insurance and other payables 61.2 69.4 Insurance and other payables include financial liabilities of 22.9m 2012: 22.8m classified as other financial liabilities.
Insurance payables and accrued expenses principally comprise amounts outstanding for suppliers and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for invoiced trade purchases is 7.3 days 2012: 7.0 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of insurance and other payables approximates their fair value.
All insurance and other payables are due within one year aside from Government grants.
Included within deferred income is 0.5m in Government grants 2012: 0.6m.
This is recognised as income over the period necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Scottish Executive Grants have been received by the Group based on two factors: expenditure on fixed assets and the creation of new jobs.
In order for the Group to avoid repayment of the grants received, the new jobs created in order to meet the grant conditions must remain in existence for a period of at least five years.
24 Deferred tax assets and liabilities The following are the deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior periods.
The analysis of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities is as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Deferred tax assets 3.8 4.0 Deferred tax liabilities 4.1 4.5 Net deferred tax liabilities 0.3 0.5 The net movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: 2013 2012 m m At 1 January 0.5 1.5 Income statement credit note 13 0.2 0.8 Effect of change in tax rate 0.0 0.2 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.0 At 31 December 0.3 0.5 The deferred tax rate used is 21.5% 2012: 23.25%.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 101 Notes to the financial statements continued 24 Deferred tax assets and liabilities continued The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Accelerated Deferred Claims Short-term capital acquisition handling employee Lease Share-based allowances costs reserve benefits incentive payments Total m m m m m m m Deferred tax assets Brought forward as at 1 January 2012 1.0 2.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 3.6 Charged credited to the income statement 0.0 0.5 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.4 At 31 December 2012 1.0 2.8 0.1 0.1 4.0 Brought forward as at 1 January 2013 1.0 2.8 0.1 0.1 4.0 Charged credited to the income statement 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.2 Deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.0 At 31 December 2013 0.7 2.7 0.1 0.3 3.8 There is an unrecognised deferred tax asset on land and buildings of 2.6m at 31 December 2013 for which there is insufficient likelihood that future taxable gains will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Claims equalisation Intangible assets reserve Onerous lease Total m m m m Deferred tax liabilities Brought forward as at 1 January 2012 4.6 0.5 5.1 Charged credited to the income statement 1.2 0.6 0.0 0.6 At 31 December 2012 3.4 1.1 0.0 4.5 Brought forward as at 1 January 2013 3.4 1.1 0.0 4.5 Charged credited to the income statement 0.9 0.5 0.4 At 31 December 2013 2.5 1.6 0.0 4.1 25 Share capital and other reserves Capital redemption Share capital Share premium reserve Total m m m m At 1 January 2012 85.2 85.2 Issue of share capital 0.0 0.0 0.0 As at 31 December 2012 85.2 0.0 85.2 Issue of share capital 0.0 50.0 50.0 Transaction costs of issue 6.0 6.0 Share repurchase 44.9 44.9 Capital reduction 40.0 40.0 As at 31 December 2013 0.3 44.0 44.9 89.2 esure Group Annual Report 2013 102 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 25 Share Capital and other reserves continued a As at 31 December 2012 No shares were issued in the year ended 31 December 2012.
At 31 December 2012, esure Group plc formerly named esure Group Holdings Limited had authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of 9,990,000 A Ordinary shares of 1p each, 8,325,000 B Ordinary shares of 1p each, 14,985,000 C Ordinary shares of 1p each, 8,485,014,000 Non-Voting Old Ordinary shares of 1p each and 1,000 Redeemable Priority Return shares of 1p each.
All shares are fully paid.
The following describes the rights attaching to each of the shares in issue at 31 December 2012: A Ordinary The shares have attached to them full voting rights: dividend rights of any further profits available after the payments to the Priority Return Shareholders pro rata to the paid up amount upon each such share held provided that before a listing, sale or liquidation any profits distributed in respect of these shares shall be allocated amongst the holders of these shares at 30% of the sum available to the A Shareholders pro rata of the number of A Ordinary Shares held by each A Shareholder: return of capital rights of any further amounts available after payments to the Priority Return Shareholders pro rata to the paid up amount upon each such share held provided that before a listing, sale or liquidation any profits distributed in respect of these shares shall be allocated amongst the holders of these shares at 30% of the sum available to the A Shareholders pro rata to the number of A Ordinary Shares held by each A Shareholder: they do not confer any rights of redemption.
B Ordinary The shares have attached to them full voting rights: dividend rights of any further profits available after the payments to the Priority Return Shareholders pro rata to the paid up amount upon each such share held provided that before a listing, sale or liquidation any profits distributed in respect of these shares shall be allocated amongst the holders of these shares at 10% of the sum available to the B Shareholders pro rata to the number of B Ordinary Shares held by each B Shareholder: return of capital rights of any further amounts available after payments to the Priority Return Shareholders pro rata to the paid up amount upon each such share held provided that before a listing, sale or liquidation any profits distributed in respect of these shares shall be allocated amongst the holders of these shares at 10% of the sum available to the B Shareholders pro rata to the number of B Ordinary Shares held by each B Shareholder: they do not confer any rights of redemption.
C Ordinary The shares have attached to them full voting rights: dividend rights of any further profits available after the payments to the Priority Return Shareholders pro rata to the paid up amount upon each such share held provided that before a listing, sale or liquidation any profits distributed in respect of these shares shall be allocated amongst the holders of these shares at 60% of the sum available to the C Shareholders pro rata to the number of C Ordinary Shares held by each C Shareholder: return of capital rights of any further amounts available after payments to the Priority Return Shareholders pro rata to the paid up amount upon each such share held provided that before a listing, sale or liquidation any profits distributed in respect of these shares shall be allocated amongst the holders of these shares at 60% of the sum available to the C Shareholders pro rata to the number of C Ordinary shares held by each C Shareholder: they do not confer any rights of redemption.
Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares The shares have attached to them no voting rights unless the business of any General Meeting or Class Meeting of the holders of Ordinary Shares includes a resolution for the winding up of the Company, or for the appointment of an administrator or the approval of a voluntary arrangement, or a reduction in the capital of the Company and or a resolution altering, varying or abrogating any of the special rights and or privileges attaching to the Ordinary Shares: dividend rights of any further profits available after the payments to the Priority Return Shareholders pro rata to the paid up amount upon each such share: return of capital rights of any further amounts available after payments to the Priority Return Shareholders pro rata to the paid up amount upon each such share held: they do not confer any rights of redemption.
Redeemable Priority Return The shares have attached to them no voting rights unless the business of any General Meeting or Class Meeting of the holders of the Priority Return Shares includes a resolution for the winding up of the Company, or for the appointment of an administrator or the approval of a voluntary arrangement, or a reduction in the capital of the Company and or a resolution altering, varying or abrogating any of the special rights and or privileges attaching to the Priority Return Shares: dividend rights: the priority payment of an amount equal to the priority return on each Priority Return Share held by them less any part of the priority return previously paid in respect of each such share by the distribution of profits: capital distribution including on winding up rights of priority payment of an amount equal to the priority return on each Priority Return Share held by them less any part of the priority return previously paid in respect of each such share by the distribution of profits or a return of capital: they confer rights of redemption of an amount equal to the priority return in respect of each such share less any part of the priority return previously paid in respect of each such share by the distribution of profits or a return of capital.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Share Capital and other reserves continued b As at 31 December 2013 The authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid share capital of esure Group plc as at 31 December 2013 is 416,841,380 Ordinary 1 Shares of pence each.
The shares have full voting and dividend rights.
12 No shares are held in Treasury.
The esure Employee Benefit Trust holds 1,646,828 Ordinary Shares and the Trustees have waived their rights to dividend payments.
Changes during the year ended 31 December 2013 On 21 February 2013, the share capital of esure Group plc was reduced by the cancellation of 4,000,000,000 Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each and 40 million in cash was paid in consideration by the esure Group plc to Tosca Penta Investments LP out of existing financial resources, the holder of the Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares so cancelled.
On 25 February 2013, each A Ordinary Share, B Ordinary Share and C Ordinary Share was subdivided into 12 shares of the same class 1 each having a nominal value of pence.
Immediately prior to the Admission of esure Group plc to the London Stock Exchange, the 12 1 resulting A Ordinary Shares, B Ordinary Shares and C Ordinary Shares, in total amounting to 399,600,000 shares of pence each, 12 were converted into a single class of Ordinary Share in accordance with esure Group plcs articles of association such that, following 1 conversion, there were in aggregate 399,600,000 Ordinary Shares of pence each.
12 Pursuant to a share purchase agreement dated 25 February 2013, esure Group plc agreed on Admission to repurchase the remaining 4,485,014,000 Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each at par amounting, in total, to 44.85 million and the 1,000 Redeemable Priority Return Shares of 0.01 each for an amount equal to the Priority Return as defined and determined in accordance with the Companys previous articles of association out of existing financial resources.
The Non-Voting Old Ordinary Shares and Redeemable Priority Return Shares repurchased were then cancelled.
A capital redemption reserve was created for the 44.85 million share repurchase.
The amount payable on Admission to Tosca Penta Investments LP in respect of the Priority Return was 0.6 million.
As a result of the contractual obligations to deliver cash to satisfy the Priority Return on Admission, the Priority Return Shares were reclassified as a financial liability.
The fair value at the date of the reclassification being 0.6 million was debited directly to retained 1 earnings.
esure Group plc also issued 17,241,380 Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of pence each on 27 March 2013 for 12 50 million, with associated transaction costs of 6.0 million debited directly to share premium.
26 Share-based payments The Group has set up a number of equity-settled, share-based compensation plans.
An award will not be granted under the executive plans if it would cause the number of shares allocated in the ten calendar year period following flotation to exceed 5% of the Ordinary Share capital in issue at that time.
Similarly, an award will not be granted under the employee plans if it would cause the number of shares allocated in the ten calendar year period following flotation to exceed 10% of the ordinary share capital in issue at that time.
Holders of these awards other than the three-year and five-year SAYE schemes will receive dividend equivalents in respect of the dividends that would have been paid between grant date and vesting date for Ordinary Shares which vest under their awards, calculated on a basis and paid in a manner to be determined by the Remuneration Committee before the awards vest.
Details of the share-based compensation plans and their financial effect are set out below.
a Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan PSP is a discretionary executive share plan.
The first awards made under PSP were: Darren Ogden 160,344 Stuart Vann 286,637 Senior Management 263,101 Under the scheme, the shares vest at the end of a three-year period dependent upon continued employment by the Group and achieving predefined performance conditions associated with the Groups earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return TSR.
The awards are subject to both non-market and market-based performance conditions.
Two-thirds of each award will be based on EPS performance and one-third on TSR performance with the two measures applying independently to different parts of each award.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 104 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 26 Share-based payments continued EPS performance The EPS performance measure involves a comparison of the pro forma EPS figure for the year ended 31 December 2012 calculated as the profit after taxation for the year ended 31 December 2012 divided by the aggregate number Ordinary Shares in existence on Admission and the EPS figure reported in the Groups audited consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2015.
For the portion of the award subject to the EPS measure: i 25 per cent will vest if EPS for the year ending 31 December 2015 exceeds the EPS for the year ended 31 December 2012 calculated on the basis described above by 21 per cent: ii 100 per cent will vest if EPS for that year for the year ending 31 December 2015 exceeds the EPS for the year ended 31 December 2012 calculated on the basis described above by 39 per cent: and iii If EPS for the year ending 2015 falls between these targets, vesting will occur on a straight-line basis.
TSR performance TSR performance will be measured by comparing the Groups TSR from the date of Admission to 31 December 2015 to the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts and the Company over the same period.
For the first PSP awards, the opening TSR of the Company will be the Offer Price.
For the portion of the award subject to the TSR measure: i 25 per cent will vest if the Group achieves median TSR performance against this comparator group: ii 100 per cent will vest if the Groups TSR performance is at the upper quartile or above: and iii If TSR performance is between the median and the upper quartile, vesting will occur on a straight-line basis.
In addition, the first PSP awards will be subject to an additional term, which will allow the Remuneration Committee to reduce the level of vesting of each award if it considers that the vesting level is not appropriate having regard to the growth in profitability over the performance period.
This PSP award will vest at the later of 3 years service and satisfaction of the performance conditions as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The following table provides summarised information regarding all PSP awards: Date of grant 27 March 2013 Number granted 710,082 Forfeited during the period Nil Vested during the period Nil Number outstanding at 31 December 2013 710,082 Contractual life 3 years and satisfaction of performance conditions Valuation of PSP awards As one-third of the awards are subject to a share price related TSR performance condition, the fair value of the awards was estimated using a stochastic Monte-Carlo model.
The remaining two-thirds of the awards are not subject to a share-price related performance condition EPS and the fair value of the awards was estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models were: Share price at grant 2.96 Exercise price nil Volatility % p. a.
23.0% Dividend yield % p. a. nil Risk-free rate % 0.27% Expected life 3 years The estimated fair value of the options at the date of grant was 1,832,012. esure Group Annual Report 2013 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Share-based payments continued b Free share awards Upon listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Group offered employees a free share award granting shares to each eligible employee free of charge.
These awards, comprised of Long Service awards and One-off awards, will be satisfied using shares held by the Group employee benefit trust.
Long Service awards These awards were made to eligible employees who did not already own shares in the Group and had been employed by the Group for more than two years at the point of Admission.
The award levels were determined by length of service.
The details of the award are set out below: Type of arrangement Free share award Date of grant 27 March 2013 Number granted 1,381,391 Forfeited lapsed during the period 57,847 Vested during the period Nil Number outstanding at 31 December 2013 1,323,544 Contractual life 3 years Vesting conditions Continuing employment or leavers under certain circumstances The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group for three years and shall not be subject to clawback.
The estimated fair value of the Long Service awards at grant date was 4,088,917.
The estimated fair value of each award was based upon the share price of Ordinary Shares at grant date of 2.96.
One-off awards These awards were made to a number of senior employees of the Group.
The details of the award are set out below: Type of arrangement Free share award Date of grant 27 March 2013 Number granted 246,845 Forfeited during the period Nil Vested during the period Nil Number outstanding at 31 December 2013 246,845 Contractual life 1 year Vesting conditions Continuing employment or leavers under certain circumstances The awards outstanding at 31 December 2013 have no performance criteria attached, other than the requirement that the employee remains in employment with the Group for one year and shall not be subject to clawback.
The estimated fair value of the One-off awards at grant date was 730,661.
The estimated fair value of each award was based upon the share price of Ordinary Shares at grant date of 2.96. esure Group Annual Report 2013 106 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 26 Share-based payments continued c Save As You Earn SAYE schemes During the year ended 31 December 2013, the Group introduced a 3 year SAYE scheme and a 5 year SAYE scheme.
esure Group employees were offered the opportunity to save between 5 and 250 each month in order to purchase shares in either three or five years time at an exercise price of 1.94, which was a 20% discount on the share price at the date before invitations were issued to participate.
The details of these awards are set out below: Type of arrangement 3 year and 5 year SAYE schemes Date of grant 6 September 2013 Number granted 1,083,748 shares under the 3 year scheme 176,260 shares under the 5 year scheme Forfeited during the period 16,701 Vested during the period Nil Number outstanding at 31 December 2013 1,067,047 shares under the three year scheme 176,260 shares under the 5 year scheme Contractual life 3 years and 5 years Vesting conditions Continuing employment and continued saving Valuation of SAYE awards The fair values of the awards were estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
The inputs into the models were: Scheme 3 year SAYE 5 year SAYE Share price at grant 2.27 2.27 Exercise price 1.94 1.94 Volatility % p. a.
6.26% 6.26% Risk-free rate % 0.93% 1.81% Expected life years 3.4 5.4 The estimated fair value of the options at the date of grant was 379,371. d Financial effect of share-based payments made The total expense recognised for the year arising from the share-based payments above was 1.8m 2012: nil.
All share-based payment transactions were accounted for as equity-settled.
27 Commitments a Pension capital commitments The Group contributes to a Group Personal Pension defined contribution scheme available to all staff of which 772 employees participated in the scheme at 30 November 2013.
Auto-enrolment to the scheme commenced on 1 December 2013.
The number of employees participating in the scheme increased by 535 between 30 November 2013 and 31 December 2013 with a final participation number of 1,307 at 31 December 2013 2012: 782.
The pension cost charge for the period represents contributions payable by the Group to the scheme and amounted to 2.3m 2012: 2.4m.
There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at either the beginning or end of the financial year.
b Capital commitments The Group has entered into the following contracts for assets which have not been provided for at the balance sheet date: As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Fixed asset acquisitions contracted for but not provided in these consolidated financial statements 0.2 0.3 esure Group Annual Report 2013 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 27 Commitments continued c Operating lease commitments where the Group is a lessee The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Not later than 1 year 3.5 3.2 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 14.5 13.1 Later than 5 years 3.9 7.3 Total minimum lease payments payable 21.9 23.6 d Operating lease commitments where the Group is a lessor The future aggregate minimum lease payments receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: As at As at 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Not later than 1 year 0.1 0.1 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 0.1 0.2 Later than 5 years Total minimum lease payments receivable 0.2 0.3 28 Group subsidiary companies esure Group plc has the following principal subsidiaries as at 31 December 2013: Class of Held directly Country of incorporation shares held Principal activity or indirectly Percentage held esure Insurance Limited England and Wales Ordinary General insurance Indirect 100% esure Services Limited England and Wales Ordinary Administration and management Indirect 100% esure Holdings Limited England and Wales Ordinary Holding company Indirect 100% esure Property Limited England and Wales Ordinary Property investment Indirect 100% esure Finance Limited England and Wales Ordinary Holding company Direct 100% esure Property Management Limited England and Wales Ordinary Non-trading Indirect 100% esure S. L. Spain Ordinary Non-trading Indirect 100% esure broker limited England and Wales Ordinary Insurance intermediary Indirect 100% All of the subsidiaries above are included in the consolidation of esure Group plc.
esure Property Management Limited and esure S. L. are dormant and are exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 to prepare annual financial statements.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 108 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 29 Related party transactions The following transactions took place with related parties during the year: a Commissions and fees receivable for introducing insurance business: The Group receives commissions and fees for customer introduction services provided to Gocompare for introducing insurance business.
The value of transactions during the period to 31 December 2013 was 0.0m 2012: 0.1m.
The amount receivable at 31 December 2013 is 0.0m 2012: nil.
These transactions arise in the normal course of business through fixed fees, and are based on arms length arrangements.
b Commissions and fees payable for introducing insurance business: The Group pays commissions and fees for customer introduction services provided by Gocompare for introducing insurance business.
The value of transactions during the period to 31 December 2013 was 6.4m 2012: 6.2m.
The amount payable at 31 December 2013 is 0.2m 2012: 0.2m.
These transactions arise in the normal course of obtaining insurance business through brokerages, and are based on arms length arrangements.
c Transactions with shareholders, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures The following transactions took place with shareholders, subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures: One of the Directors had a beneficial part ownership interest in a restaurant which has been used by the Group for corporate events and entertaining purposes.
Fees in respect of services provided by employees of Penta Capital LLP in their capacity as Non-Executive Directors of the Group prior to IPO.
Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 m m Value of transactions during the period: Restaurants 0.1 0.1 Penta Capital LLP 0.0 0.1 Total value of transactions 0.1 0.2 Amount payable at the year end: Restaurants 0.0 Penta Capital LLP 0.0 Total amount payable at the year end 0.0 0.0 d Compensation of key management personnel The key management personnel are considered to be the Directors.
Please refer to note 8 for details of the Directors remuneration, excluding PSP share awards.
See note 26 for more detail on these awards.
One of the Directors is also a member of the 3 year SAYE scheme and saves 250 a month under the scheme.
