Five year record 2012 2013 restated note 1.8 2011 2010 2009 IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS Years ended 31 December m m m m m Revenue and profit Revenue 556.0 425.5 364.8 298.6 281.5 Operating profit before financing costs 82.8 56.7 36.4 21.6 18.9 Net financing costs 4.3 3.7 4.5 3.2 14.1 Share of result of Joint Venture 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 - Profit before tax 78.8 53.2 32.1 18.5 4.8 Tax 18.7 13.0 8.8 4.5 1.3 Profit after tax 60.1 40.2 23.3 14.0 3.5 Balance sheet Equity shareholders funds 810.3 758.8 728.6 710.8 692.6 Add borrowings stated before issue costs 18.0 - - - - Capital employed 828.3 758.8 728.6 710.8 692.6 Returns Operating margin note 1 15% 13% 10% 7% 6% Return on shareholders funds note 2 7% 5% 3% 2% 1% Return on capital employed note 3 10% 8% 5% 3% 2% Homes including units sold on third party owned land Number of unit completions 2,813 2,355 2,045 1,901 1,803 Average sales price 000 195.1 170.7 162.4 160.7 154.6 Ordinary shares Earnings per share p note 4 44.9 30.2 17.5 10.6 4.4 Dividends per share Paid p 7.5 6.5 4.5 - - Interim paid and final proposed p 13.5 9.0 5.0 3.0 - Note 1: Operating margin has been calculated as operating profit over turnover, stated before exceptional charges.
Note 2: Return on shareholders funds has been calculated as pre-exceptional profit after interest and tax over closing shareholders funds.
Note 3: Return on capital employed has been calculated as pre-exceptional profit before interest and tax over the average of opening and closing shareholders funds plus net debt.
Note 4: Earnings per share is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 101 Notice of meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to any aspect of the proposals referred to in this document or as to the action you should take, you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 2014 Annual General Meeting of Bovis Homes Group PLC will be held at The Spa Hotel, Mount Ephraim, Royal Tunbridge Wells, Kent TN4 8XJ on Friday 16 May 2014 at 12 noon for the following purposes: Ordinary resolutions Reports and accounts 1 To receive the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the reports of the directors and auditors.
Remuneration report 2 To approve the directors remuneration report other than the part containing the directors remuneration policy referred to in resolution 3 below in the form set out in the Companys annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 in accordance with section 439 of the Companies Act 2006.
3 To approve the directors remuneration policy set out on pages 44 to 48 of the directors remuneration report, in the form set out in the Companys annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013, in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006, to take effect immediately following the Annual General Meeting.
Dividend 4 To declare the final dividend recommended by the directors.
Directors 5 To re-appoint Ian Paul Tyler appointed since the last Annual General Meeting as a director of the Company.
6 To re-appoint Alastair David Lyons as a director of the Company.
7 To re-appoint John Anthony Warren as a director of the Company.
8 To re-appoint David James Ritchie as a director of the Company.
9 To re-appoint Jonathan Stanley Hill as a director of the Company.
Auditors 10 To re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company.
11 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of the auditors.
Authority to allot shares 12 That the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act : A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,327,642: and B comprising equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,655,284 including within such limit any shares issued or rights granted under paragraph A above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue to holders of ordinary shares in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings and so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter, such authorities to apply unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in a general meeting until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but in each case so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require shares to be allotted, or rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares to be granted, after the authority ends and the directors may allot shares and grant rights under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not ended.
Amendment to Long Term Incentive Plan 13 That the amendment to the rules of the Bovis Homes Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 described in item 13 in the explanatory notes to this Notice of meeting be and is hereby approved and that the directors be and are hereby authorised to do all such acts and things as may be necessary to carry the amendment into effect.
Special resolutions Notice of general meetings 14 That a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Authority to disapply pre-emption rights 15 That if resolution 12 is passed, and in place of all existing powers, the directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of the 2006 Act to allot equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act for cash, under the authority given by that resolution, as if section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to the allotment, such power: 102 | Annual report and accounts | Supplementary information Supplementary information Notice of meeting continued a to expire unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in a general meeting at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 or fifteen months from the date of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but during this period the directors may make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after the power ends and the directors may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ended: b to be limited to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an offer of equity securities but in the case of the authority granted under resolution 12 B by way of a rights issue only to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings and so that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and c to be limited, in the case of the authority granted under resolution 12 A, to the allotment of equity securities for cash otherwise than pursuant to paragraph b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,352,498.
Authority to purchase own shares 16 That the Company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority, for the purposes of section 701 of the 2006 Act, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the 2006 Act of the ordinary shares of 50 pence each in its capital PROVIDED THAT: i this authority shall be limited so that the number of ordinary shares of 50 pence each which may be acquired pursuant to this authority does not exceed an aggregate of 13,409,995 ordinary shares and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares the contract for which was concluded before such time and which is executed wholly or partly after such time : ii the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buyback and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 in each case exclusive of expenses : and iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be 50 pence in each case exclusive of expenses.
Bovis Homes Group PLC By Order of the Board The Manor House, North Ash Road M T D Palmer New Ash Green, Longfield Group Company Secretary Kent DA3 8HQ 21 March 2014 Notes: i Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and section 360 B 2 of the 2006 Act, the Company gives notice that only holders of ordinary shares entered on the register of members no later than 6.00pm on 14 May 2014 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date which is 48 hours before the time of the adjourned meeting will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting and a member may vote in respect of the number of ordinary shares registered in the members name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
ii A registered member of the Company may appoint one or more proxies in respect of some or all of their ordinary shares to exercise that members rights to attend, speak and vote at a meeting of the Company instead of the member.
A registered member appointing multiple proxies must ensure that each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attaching to different shares and must specify on the proxy form the number of shares in relation to which that proxy is appointed.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this Notice.
If you do not have a proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require additional forms, please contact the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY.
Members or their duly appointed proxies are requested to bring proof of identity with them to the meeting in order to confirm their identity for security reasons.
A shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting in accordance with section 319A of the 2006 Act.
In certain circumstances prescribed by the same section, the Company need not answer a question.
iii The proxy form must be executed by or on behalf of the member making the appointment.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
A corporation may execute the form s of proxy either under its common seal or under the hand of a duly authorised officer, attorney or other authorised person.
A member may appoint more than one proxy to attend and vote on the same occasion.
iv A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
v Participants of the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan may instruct the trustee to vote on their behalf on a poll.
vi The proxy form and the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power or authority must be received at the office of the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY or received via the Computershare website, www.
com full details of the procedures are given in the notes to the proxy form enclosed with the report and accounts and on the website not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting.
Completion of the proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST proxy instruction as described in paragraph vii below will not preclude a member from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person instead of through his proxy or proxies.
The Company will announce the level of proxy votes for and against each resolution and the number of abstentions once the resolution has been voted on by a show of hands, except where a poll is called.
When announcing a decision on a poll, the Company will disclose the total number of votes in favour and against and the number of abstentions on the Company website www.
co. uk and through a Regulatory Information Service.
If a member returns both paper and electronic proxy instructions, those received last by the Registrar before the latest time for receipt of proxies will take precedence.
Members are advised to read the website terms and conditions of use carefully.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 103 Notice of meeting continued vii To appoint one or more proxies or to give an instruction to a proxy whether previously appointed or otherwise via the CREST system, CREST messages must be received by the issuers agent ID number 3RA50 not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp generated by the CREST system from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and system timings please refer to the CREST manual.
The Company may treat as invalid a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. viii CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST proxy instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
ix Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a right, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated, to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph ii above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by members of the Company.
x As at 3 March 2014 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 134,099,952 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 3 March 2014 are 134,099,952. xi Under section 527 of the 2006 Act, members meeting the relevant threshold requirements set out in that section may require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual General Meeting that the members propose to raise at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the 2006 Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the 2006 Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 Act to publish on a website.
xii Under sections 338 and 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company: a to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or b to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in the business unless i in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective, ii it is defamatory of any person, or iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 3 April 2014, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included on the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
xiii Except as provided above, members who wish to communicate with the Company in relation to the Annual General Meeting should do so using the following means: 1 by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office address: or 2 by writing to the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
In particular you may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of meeting or in any related documents including the Chairmans Statement, the Annual Report 2013 and the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
xiv A copy of this Notice and other information required to be published in accordance with section 311A of the 2006 Act in advance of the Annual General Meeting can be found at www.
xv The following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office, during normal business hours, on any weekday excluding public holidays from the date of this Notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and on that date they will be available for inspection at the place of the meeting from 11.30am until the conclusion of the meeting: a copies of the directors service contracts: b copies of the terms and conditions of appointment for each non-executive director: c the register of directors interests: and d a copy of the rules of the Bovis Homes Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan 2010, together with a comparison document showing the change proposed to be made to the rules pursuant to Resolution 13. xvi Data protection statement: your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your behalf, which relates to you as a shareholder, including your name and contact details, the votes you cast and your Reference Number attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data is to be processed.
The Company and any third party to which it discloses the data including the Companys Registrar may process your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the shareholder rights you exercise.
104 | Annual report and accounts | Supplementary information
