Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting Item 1: Reports and accounts The directors are required to present to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the report of the directors and the accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The report of the directors, the accounts and the report of the Companys auditors on the accounts and on those parts of the directors remuneration report that are capable of being audited are contained within the Companys annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
Items 2 and 3: Directors remuneration policy and annual remuneration report Under section 439 of the 2006 Act, the directors are required to present the directors remuneration report other than the part containing the directors remuneration policy, prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, for the approval of shareholders by way of an advisory vote.
The directors remuneration report, the relevant pages of which can be found on pages 50 to 61 of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, gives details of the directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2013 and sets out the way in which the Company will implement its policy on directors remuneration.
The Companys auditors, KPMG LLP, have audited those parts of the directors remuneration report capable of being audited and their report may be found on pages 72 to 73 of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
Under section 439A of the 2006, Act the directors are required to present the directors remuneration policy, prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, for the approval of shareholders by way of a binding vote.
The directors remuneration policy, which may be found on pages 44 to 48 of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, sets out the Companys proposed policy on directors remuneration.
A copy of the directors remuneration policy is also available on the website at www.
or in hard copy on request from the Group Company Secretary.
The vote on the directors remuneration report is advisory in nature in that payments made or promised to directors will not have to be repaid, reduced or withheld in the event that this resolution is not passed.
In contrast, the vote on the directors remuneration policy is binding in nature in that the Company may not make a remuneration payment or payment for loss of office to a person who is, is to be, or has been a director of the Company unless that payment is consistent with the approved directors remuneration policy, or has otherwise been approved by a resolution of members.
If resolution 3 is passed, the directors remuneration policy will take effect immediately following the Annual General Meeting.
A remuneration policy will be put to shareholders again no later than 3 years from the date of the Annual General Meeting.
If resolution 2 in respect of the directors remuneration report is not passed, the policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the next Annual General Meeting.
Item 4: Final dividend Subject to the declaration of the final dividend at the meeting, the dividend will be paid on 23 May 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 28 March 2014.
Items 5 to 9: Re-appointment of directors The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code requires FTSE 350 companies to put all directors forward for re-appointment by shareholders on an annual basis.
The purpose of this requirement is to increase accountability to shareholders.
Accordingly, all the directors of the Company will retire at the Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-appointment, with the exception of Colin Holmes who is retiring from the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association require that any director appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and, accordingly, Ian Tyler will offer himself for re-appointment on this basis.
The Code contains provisions dealing with the re-appointment of non-executive directors.
In relation to the re-appointment of Alastair Lyons and John Warren as non-executive directors, the Chairman has confirmed following the formal performance evaluation conducted during 2013 that they continue to be effective in and demonstrate commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings.
Alastair Lyons brings a broad range of business knowledge and skills to the Board, with a particular focus on mortgage lending and insurance industries.
John Warren provides detailed financial and accounting expertise and has long standing experience in chairing audit committees.
Ian Tyler was appointed non-executive Chairman on 29 November 2013 and has considerable construction industry knowledge and international business experience.
The Board strongly supports and recommends the re-appointment of the directors to shareholders.
Biographical details of all the directors can be found on page 32 of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
Items 10 and 11: Re-appointment of auditors and auditors remuneration The auditors of a company must be re-appointed at each general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Resolution 10 proposes the re-appointment of the Companys existing auditors, KPMG LLP, for a further year.
Resolution 11 gives authority to the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Item 12: Authority to allot shares The authority given to your directors at last years Annual General Meeting under section 551 of the 2006 Act to allot shares expires on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, this resolution seeks to grant a new authority under section 551 to authorise the directors to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 22,327,642 and also gives the Board authority to allot, in addition to these shares, further of the Companys unissued shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,655,284 in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing members by way of a rights issue with exclusions to deal with fractional entitlements to shares and overseas shareholders to whom the rights issue cannot be made due to legal and practical problems.
This is in accordance with the latest institutional guidelines published by the Association of British Insurers.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The amount of 22,327,642 represents less than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 3 March 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The amount of 44,655,284 represents less than 66.6% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 3 March 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
The Company did not hold any shares in treasury as at 3 March 2014.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 105 Explanatory notes to the notice of meeting continued The Board has no present intention to exercise this authority other than in connection with employee share schemes.
It wishes to obtain the necessary authority from shareholders so that allotments can be made should it be desirable and should suitable market conditions arise at short notice and without the need to convene a general meeting of the Company which would be both costly and time consuming.
If the Board takes advantage of the additional authority to issue shares or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, shares in the Company representing more than 33.3% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue or for a rights issue where the monetary proceeds exceed 33.3% of the Companys pre-issue market capitalisation, all members of the Board wishing to remain in office will stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting following the decision to make the relevant share issue.
Item 13: Amendment to Long Term Incentive Plan The Remuneration Committee completed a review of the Companys remuneration policy with the introduction of the new reporting regulations for directors remuneration.
This review particularly focused on long term performance related pay to ensure that it is appropriately set for the future and continues to be positioned appropriately in light of both individual and Company performance.
As a result, the Board is proposing that the limit on the value of awards that may be granted under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP in normal circumstances be increased from 100% to 150% of an employees basic salary.
Currently, the number of shares over which an LTIP award may be granted to an employee in any financial year may not normally have a market value at the date of grant calculated by reference to the middle market price of a share on the relevant day exceeding 100% of basic salary this limit having been applied since 2004.
All other terms of the LTIP will remain unchanged, including the ability of the Remuneration Committee to grant LTIP awards in exceptional circumstances with a market value of up to 200% of an employees basic salary.
The Board is confident that this proposed increase is fully justified and commercially appropriate.
Item 14: Notice of general meetings This resolution is required as a result of the implementation in 2009 of the Shareholder Rights Directive.
The regulation implementing this Directive increased the notice period for general meetings under the 2006 Act to 21 days.
The Company will be able to continue to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 clear days notice as long as shareholders have approved the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, where it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
It is confirmed that ability to call a general meeting on 14 days notice would only be utilised in limited circumstances and where the shorter notice period will be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Item 15: Disapplication of pre-emption rights Resolution 15 seeks authority for the directors to issue equity securities as defined in the 2006 Act in the Company for cash as if the pre-emption provisions of section 561 of the 2006 Act did not apply.
Other than in connection with a rights issue or any other pre-emptive offers concerning equity securities, the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to the issue of shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 3,352,498 which represents approximately 5% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 3 March 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
In accordance with the Pre-emption Groups Statement of Principles, the directors confirm their intention that no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis during any rolling three-year period.
This resolution seeks a disapplication of the pre-emption rights on a rights issue so as to allow the directors to make exclusions or such other arrangements as may be appropriate to resolve legal or practical problems which, for example, might arise with overseas members.
There are presently no plans to allot ordinary shares wholly for cash other than in connection with employee share schemes.
Shares allotted under an employee share scheme are not subject to statutory pre-emption rights.
The authority sought by resolution 15 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the resolution.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Item 16: Authority to purchase own shares This resolution renews the authority granted at last years Annual General Meeting to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 13,409,995 of its own shares, representing approximately 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in issue as at 3 March 2014 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
Before exercising such authority, the directors would ensure that the Company was complying with the current relevant UK Listing Authority and ABI guidelines.
No purchases would be made unless the directors believe that the effect would be to increase the earnings per share of the remaining shareholders and the directors consider the purchases to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but would like to have the flexibility of considering such purchases in the future.
Any purchases of ordinary shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
The maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for each ordinary share shall be the higher of: a an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Company agrees to buy the ordinary shares: and b an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses would be 50 pence, being the nominal value of each ordinary share.
The authority will only be valid until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting in 2015.
As at 3 March 2014 there were options over 627,969 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which represent 0.47% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares was exercised in full, these options would represent 0.52% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the meeting promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
106 | Annual report and accounts | Supplementary information
