142 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Company Accounting Policies equity-settled share-based payments calculated in accordance with Basis of preparation FRS 20 Share-based Payment, where no cash contributions are The separate Financial Statements of the Company are presented made by the subsidiaries.
The uplift is credited to a capital as required by the Companies Act and are prepared under the contribution reserve in equity.
The Company recharges certain historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of other subsidiaries when it satisfies these equity-settled awards with its investments, and in accordance with applicable accounting own shares.
standards in the United Kingdom.
The principal accounting policies set out below have been Tangible fixed assets applied consistently for the years ended 31 December 2013 and Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated 31 December 2012. depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The Companys Financial Statements are presented in millions of Expenditure on tangible fixed assets is capitalised on initial pounds Sterling rounded to one decimal place, the Companys recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is functional and presentational currency.
probable that there will be future economic benefits associated with In accordance with Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 a the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
All other separate Profit and Loss Account for the Company is not presented.
expenditure is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account as an expense as incurred.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 29 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation and has not Tangible fixed assets are depreciated, using the straight-line disclosed the information required by that standard because the method, to write off the cost of assets over their estimated useful Company is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements lives, as follows: which are publicly available and include disclosures given under Leasehold improvements 10 years IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Office furniture & equipment 3-5 years Computer equipment 3 years Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed at affect its future development, performance and position are set out each reporting date.
If an indication of impairment exists, the assets in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 21.
The financial position of are written down to their recoverable amount and the impairment is the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in charged to the Profit and Loss Account in the year in which it arises.
In addition, note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 120 to 123 includes the Groups Financial instruments objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its When financial instruments are recognised initially they are financial risk management objectives: details of its financial measured at fair value plus directly attributable transaction costs.
instruments and its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risks.
The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market bid After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation prices mid-price for Open-Ended Investment Companies at the that the Company has adequate resources to continue in close of business on the balance sheet date.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these Financial instruments are classified into the categories described Financial Statements.
below: i Available for sale financial assets are carried at fair value in the Turnover Balance Sheet.
In respect of unquoted instruments, or where Turnover comprises fees for secretarial services provided to the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is Investment Trusts, and shared services and administration services established by using recognised valuation methodologies, in provided to subsidiary undertakings.
Fees are recognised in the accordance with International Private Equity and Venture Profit and Loss Account over the period for which these services Capital Valuation Guidelines.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or Dividend recognition significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using Dividends receivable and dividends payable are recognised only the price of a recent investment method.
Repayments are when they have been declared and approved or at the date of treated as reductions to carrying value.
After an appropriate payment for interim dividends.
period, an assessment is made as to whether the circumstances of the investment have changed such that Investments in subsidiaries another valuation methodology is appropriate or there is any Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated evidence of deterioration or strong defensible evidence of an impairment losses.
The cost includes the uplift arising from the increase in value.
In the absence of these indicators, fair value ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 143 is determined to be that reported at the previous balance Impairment of financial assets sheet date.
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits and or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an Assets carried at amortised cost Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment in loans and Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and receivables carried at amortised cost has occurred, the amount of foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are taken the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of the assets carrying amount and the expected recoverable amount.
The asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this reserve is carrying amount of the asset would be reduced and the amount of recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
The following the loss recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
assets are classified as available for sale: If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss Fixed assets decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously Other investments recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any subsequent reversal of ii Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss include an impairment loss is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account to investments which have been specifically designated as at fair the extent that the carrying value of the asset does not exceed its value through profit or loss.
These are carried in the Balance amortised cost at the reversal date.
Sheet at fair value and movements in fair value are taken to the Profit and Loss Account in the period in which they arise.
Available for sale financial assets The following assets are classified as financial instruments at If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising the fair value through profit or loss: difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment loss Fixed assets previously recognised in the Profit and Loss Account, is transferred Other investments from reserves to the Profit and Loss Account.
Reversals in respect iii Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at of equity instruments classified as available for sale are not fair value plus any incremental costs incurred.
Subsequent to recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Reversals of impairment initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at losses on debt instruments are taken through the Profit and Loss amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Gains Account, if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be and losses are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss when loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as was recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
well as through the amortisation process.
The following assets and liabilities are classified as loans and receivables: Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that Current assets: have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where Debtors transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in Cash and short-term deposits an obligation to pay less or receive more tax, with the following exceptions: iv Financial liabilities are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method after initial recognition.
The Provision is made for tax on gains arising from the revaluation following liabilities are classified as financial liabilities: and similar fair value adjustments of fixed assets, or gains on disposal of fixed assets that have been rolled over into Creditors amounts falling due within one year replacement assets, only to the extent that, at the balance Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year sheet date, there is a commitment to dispose of the assets concerned.
However, no provision is made where, on the The Company has adopted trade date accounting for basis of all available evidence at the balance sheet date, it is purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over into terms require delivery of the assets within the timeframe replacement assets and charged to tax only when the established in the marketplace concerned.
Accordingly, such replacement assets are sold: financial instruments are recognised on the date the Company commits to the purchase of the investments, and are Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on derecognised on the date it commits to their sale.
remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable: and Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the Financial assets Directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, is be suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis at the tax rates Financial liabilities that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively liability is either discharged, cancelled or expires.
enacted at the balance sheet date.
144 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Company Accounting Policies Operating leases Non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at historical cost in a Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Profit and foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
of transaction and are not subsequently restated.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities stated at fair value in a foreign currency are Lease incentives are recognised by the Company as a reduction of translated at the exchange rate at the date the fair value was the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis, over the determined.
When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are shorter of the lease term and a period ending on a date from which reflected in the Profit and Loss Account, the corresponding it is expected the prevailing market rental will be payable.
exchange movements are also recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
Conversely, when fair value movements in assets and Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs liabilities are reflected directly in equity, the corresponding exchange UITF 38 requires that own shares acquired through an EBT be movements are also recognised directly in equity.
deducted in arriving at shareholders funds until they vest unconditionally to the employees.
Consideration paid and received Share-based payments for the purchase or sale of these shares is included in shareholders The Company operates a variable NCI incentive which is required to funds and no gain or loss is recognised.
Other assets and liabilities be accounted for as a share-based payment.
of the EBTs are recognised as assets and liabilities of the Company.
The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not Ordinary Shares of the Company are held by EBTs in order to satisfy considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these a number of F&C Group share-based payment plans and future awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the exercises of options and awards to employees of subsidiary equity instruments at intrinsic value.
The fair value is measured by an companies.
The cost relating to the share-based payment plans is independent external valuer at each reporting date.
The intrinsic recognised in the subsidiary companies which employ the staff in value is spread over the vesting period.
receipt of awards, and the Company recognises any fresh issue of shares or re-issue of own shares when such a transaction occurs.
Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon These shares are included in the Financial Statements of the meeting non-market related performance conditions.
The type of Company as a deduction from shareholders funds.
vesting criteria affects the calculation of the expense charged to the Profit and Loss Account and subsequent adjustments, as nonmarket related conditions are performance criteria such as earnings Provisions targets and or service requirements.
The probability of meeting nonA provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Company market conditions is incorporated into the expense charge via the has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and estimate of the number of awards expected to vest.
The total it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to cumulative expense is ultimately adjusted to reflect the actual settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are number of awards which vest.
Therefore, if no awards vest, no determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a precumulative expense is ultimately recognised.
tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
No FRS 20 Share-based Payment makes a distinction between awards provision is established where a reliable estimate of the obligation settled in equity and those settled in cash.
Equity-settled awards are cannot be made.
charged to the Profit and Loss Account with a corresponding credit to equity.
Cash-settled awards are charged to the Profit and Loss Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be Account with a corresponding credit to liabilities.
The estimated fair reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset value of cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
until the payments are ultimately settled.
Where the Company has obligations under property leases and where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the Ordinary Share capital business, full provision is made for future net outstanding liabilities When Ordinary Shares are issued the proceeds on issue are under such leases after taking into account the effect of any allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders expected sub-letting arrangements.
funds, net of transaction costs.
When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of Related party disclosures consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are FRS 8 Related Party Disclosures requires disclosure of the details of recognised in the own share reserve included within retained material transactions between the reporting entity and related earnings and are classified as deductions in equity.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS shares are reflected through equity.
8 not to disclose transactions between F&C Group companies which eliminate on consolidation.
Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date of payment or, if subject to approval, the date approved by the shareholders.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Cash flow statement Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions in FRS 1 the balance sheet date are translated at the exchange rate ruling at revised Cash Flow Statements and has elected not to prepare a the balance sheet date, and any exchange differences arising are Cash Flow Statement as it is included within the Consolidated Cash taken to the Profit and Loss Account.
Flow Statement in the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management plc.
