62 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure Basis of preparation and statement of compliance the fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted, These are the Consolidated Financial Statements of F&C Asset while also requiring additional disclosures.
The Group has Management plc and its subsidiaries the Group which have been reassessed its policies for measuring fair value and the valuation prepared on a going concern basis and in accordance with inputs, and theapplication of IFRS 13 has not materially impacted International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the the fair value measurements carried out by the Group.
Additional European Union EU adopted IFRS, and those parts of the disclosures on fair value measurements are disclosed in note 19.
Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under The fair value hierarchy is also disclosed in note 19. adopted IFRS.
These Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in millions of pounds Sterling, rounded to one decimal IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised point, except where otherwise indicated.
The Group has applied IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised Certain figures reported in the 2012 Financial Statements have been retrospectively in the current period.
There were no adjustments reclassified within these Financial Statements for consistency with required to the earliest comparative Statement of Financial Position the presentation applied within these Financial Statements.
These 1 January 2012, but a prior period adjustment has been made to changes are presentational in nature and do not change the the Income Statement in the year ended 31 December 2012.
Details previously reported financial results for the year ended 31 December of the impact of the prior period adjustment are disclosed in note 1.
2012 nor the aggregate assets and liabilities at that date.
The main changes of IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised which Going concern impact the Group are: The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The interest cost and expected return on plan assets previously affect its future development, performance and position are set out disclosed within finance costs and finance revenue respectively in the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 21.
The financial position of used in the previous version of IAS 19 have been replaced with the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are also described in a single net-interest amount disclosed within finance costs the Strategic Report.
In addition, note 35 to the Financial under IAS 19 Employee Benefits revised, which is calculated Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: asset at the start of each accounting period.
The change affects and details of its financial instruments and its exposure to credit risk, the difference between actual and expected returns on plan liquidity risk and market risks.
assets, which is recognised in full within OCI as part of reThe Group has considerable financial resources and benefits from a measurement: broad client base across different geographic areas and industries.
The classification of plan administration costs and income taxes After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation associated with the plans are measured in either the Income that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational Statement or OCI depending on their nature: existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to The requirement for more extensive pension disclosures, as adopt the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements.
shown in note 25: and Termination benefits are recognised only when the offer cannot New or revised standards be withdrawn, or when the related restructuring costs are The following IFRS standards, amendments and revisions, which are recognised as a provision.
relevant to F&Cs reporting have been adopted in the current reporting period.
The details, and their impact, are considered below.
The revisions to the standards below, which were effective during the year ended 31 December 2013, did not have any impact on the accounting policies, financial position or performance of the Group: IAS 1 Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income Amendments to IAS 1 The Group has adopted this amendment which has resulted in a a Amendments to IFRS: prior period adjustment changing the grouping of items presented in Amendments to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets Other Comprehensive Income OCI.
Items which may be and Financial Liabilities.
reclassified or recycled to profit or loss in the future are now presented separately from items that could not be reclassified.
The b Improvements to IFRS 2009 2011 cycle : amendments do not change the nature of items that are recognised IAS 16 Improvement Property, Plant and Equipment.
in OCI, nor do they impact the determination of whether items in IAS 32 Improvement Financial Instruments: Presentation.
OCI are reclassified through profit or loss in future periods.
IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement IFRS 13 provides a single source of guidance on how to measure fair value under IFRS.
It does not change when an entity is required ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 63 Parent Company Financial Statements g F&C REIT receivable The recoverability of a significant debtor in respect of property The parent Company has continued to present individual Financial asset management fees, as detailed in note 36 a ii, has been Statements prepared on a UK GAAP basis as permitted by section assessed by the Board, together with the fair value of the 395 1 of the Companies Act 2006, adopting the exemption of collateral which has been obtained over the debtor.
omitting the Profit and Loss Account and related notes conferred by section 408 of that Act.
The Company Financial Statements, h Performance fee recognition together with their respective accounting policies and notes, are presented on pages 141 to 153.
Income generated from performance fees is based on the absolute investment performance of a clients assets, or their Accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements relative performance compared to a hurdle or benchmark, over The preparation of the Financial Statements necessitates the use of a defined period.
Where the performance period is not estimates, assumptions and judgements.
These estimates, coterminous with the Groups financial reporting period, the assumptions and judgements affect the reported amounts of assets, performance fees recognised must be estimated and such liabilities, contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the reporting estimates are inherently subjective.
date as well as the reported income and expenses for the year.
Summary of significant accounting policies While estimates are based on managements best knowledge and The accounting policies set out below have been applied judgement using information and financial data available to them, consistently throughout the Group for the purposes of the the actual outcome may differ from these estimates.
Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended The key sources of estimation, uncertainty and critical judgements in 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012. applying accounting policies are disclosed, where appropriate, in the following notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements: a Consolidation a Impairment testing of intangible assets i Subsidiaries The projected revenue growth, projected operating cost growth Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has the and discount rates applied to cash flow projections, as power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating disclosed in note 14. policies so as to obtain benefits from their activities.
Subsidiaries follow accounting policies consistent with those of the Group, b Pension assumptions unless there is a requirement for the subsidiary to follow a The mortality assumptions, discount rates, rates of salary different accounting treatment, in which case consolidation increases and inflation increases, as disclosed in note 25. adjustments are made to align the treatment of such subsidiaries within the Consolidated Financial Statements.
c Provisions The subsidiaries have coterminous reporting periods, with Onerous contract provisions for premises are subject to three exceptions.
uncertainties over time, including market rent reviews and break The Consolidated Financial Statements incorporate the assets, options within the lease arrangements.
Details are disclosed in liabilities, results and cash flows of the Company and its note 24. subsidiaries.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group d F&C REIT put option liabilities The fair value of the F&C REIT put option liabilities is based transactions are eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
upon an external valuation of the F&C REIT business.
By its nature, the valuation is subject to a significant number of Non-controlling interests NCI represent the portion of profit or assumptions and judgements and could differ from any price loss and net assets in subsidiaries not held by the Group and ultimately agreed between the parties if the put options were are presented separately in the Consolidated Income Statement exercised.
Details of the key valuation assumptions used are Income Statement and within equity in the Consolidated outlined in note 19.
Statement of Financial Position Statement of Financial Position, separately from parent shareholders equity.
e Share-based payments The share-based payment expense in respect of the LTRP ii Business combinations restricted share awards is based on expected vesting IFRS 3 Revised relating to Business Combinations from percentages, as disclosed in note 26 a ii.
The share-based 1 January 2010 payment expense in respect of the TRC Commutation arrangements, as detailed in notes 7 a i and 26 f, is dependent A business combination is the bringing together of separate entities or businesses into one reporting entity.
The result is that upon whether the remaining call option is exercised and, if exercised, the expense will vary according to a number of one entity, the acquirer, obtains control of one or more entities or businesses.
The acquisition date is the date on which the factors, including the level of earnings of the respective Investment Teams.
acquirer obtains control of the acquiree.
The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of the f Deferred tax assets assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or The quantum of deferred tax assets recognised, as detailed in assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets and note 17, is based upon assumptions as to the future profitability liabilities acquired and contingent liabilities assumed in a of the underlying companies to which they relate.
business combination are measured initially at their fair values at 64 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies the acquisition date.
The excess of the consideration transferred Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration for the acquisition, plus any NCI, over the fair value of the received or receivable, taking into account the contractually Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as defined terms of payment and excluding any taxes.
Acquisition-related expenses are expensed in the Initial fees received in advance, arising on open-ended funds, Income Statement.
are taken to the Statement of Financial Position and released to the Income Statement over the period of the asset management b Foreign currencies service.
The Group enters into standard contractual terms for all The Groups presentational currency is Sterling.
Therefore, the period of provision of asset the Group determines its own functional currency, and amounts management services is estimated based upon the Groups included in the financial statements of each entity are measured experience of the average holding periods of investors.
The in that functional currency.
average holding period is reassessed on an annual basis.
i Foreign currency translation The Group is entitled to earn performance fees from a number Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the of clients if the actual investment performance of clients assets functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the exceeds defined benchmarks by an agreed level of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in outperformance, generally in a set time period.
Performance foreign currencies at the reporting date are translated at the fees are recognised when the quantum of the fee can be exchange rate ruling at the reporting date, and any exchange estimated reliably, which is when the performance period ends differences arising are taken to the Income Statement.
when this occurs on or before the reporting date, or where there is a period of less than six months remaining to the end of the Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than intangible assets performance period and there is evidence at the reporting date arising on the acquisition of foreign operations, measured at which suggests that the current performance will be sustainable.
historical cost in a foreign currency, are translated using the exchange rate at the date of transaction and are not Performance fees include property related transaction fees subsequently restated.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities which can crystalise on the acquisition or disposal of properties stated at fair value in a foreign currency are translated at the managed on behalf of clients.
exchange rate at the date the fair value was determined.
When fair value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected in the d Leases Income Statement, the corresponding exchange movements All leases entered into by the Group are operating leases, being are also recognised in the Income Statement.
Similarly, when fair leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and value movements in assets and liabilities are reflected directly in rewards of ownership of the leased asset.
Rentals paid under equity, the corresponding exchange movements except any operating leases are charged to the Income Statement on a relating to available for sale monetary assets are also straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives are recognised directly in equity.
recognised by the Group as a reduction in the rental expense, allocated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
ii Foreign operations Accounting policy s Provisions discusses the recognition of The functional currency of foreign operations is predominantly provisions on onerous property leases when the leased space the Euro.
has ceased to be occupied by the Group.
The assets and liabilities of, or relating to, foreign operations are The Group has a review process for accepting new contracts translated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the which identifies whether any arrangements contain a lease reporting date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign obligation.
operations are translated to Sterling at foreign exchange rates approximating to the rates ruling at the dates of the e Fee and commission expenses transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation Fee and commission expenses comprise two main elements of foreign operations into Sterling, including related intangible costs associated with gaining new asset management contracts assets, are recognised directly in the Groups Foreign Currency and subsequent commission paid to agents.
The costs Translation Reserve FCTR, which is a separate component of associated with gaining contracts are deferred and amortised equity, and reported in the Statement of Comprehensive over the estimated term of the contracts in line with the Income.
These exchange differences are recognised as income treatment of the associated initial fees received, while the or expenses in the period in which the foreign operations are subsequent renewal commission paid to agents is expensed as disposed of.
c Revenue recognition f Exceptional income and costs Management fees, investment advisory fees and other revenue Where the Group incurs significant non-recurring expenditure or generated from the Groups asset management activities are earns significant non-recurring income in respect of items that recognised in the Income Statement over the period which arise outwith the Groups normal business activities and which these investment management services are provided, regardless are sufficiently material to warrant separate disclosure, then of when the payment is due.
such items are disclosed in the Income Statement as exceptional items, either separately or collectively, depending on their nature.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 65 g Finance revenue The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Finance revenue comprises interest, dividends, investment reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer income and net fair value gains through the Income Statement probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all in respect of shareholder investments.
Dividend income is or part of the asset to be recovered.
recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Any income tax expense or income in respect of taxable gains Interest income is recognised in the Income Statement on an or losses attributable to policyholders falls to be borne by or to effective interest rate basis as it accrues.
the benefit of the Groups unit-linked policyholders.
As a result, the Directors consider it appropriate to differentiate on the face h Finance costs of the Income Statement between tax attributable to Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings, net policyholders and tax attributable to shareholders.
interest on defined benefit pension obligations, amortisation of loan issue costs and facility fees, unwinding of discount on j Property, plant and equipment provisions and net fair value losses through the Income Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less Statement in respect of shareholder investments.
Borrowing accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
costs are recognised in the Income Statement on an effective interest rate basis.
Expenditure on property, plant and equipment is capitalised on initial recognition.
Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised when it is probable that there will be future economic benefits i Income tax associated with the expenditure which can be measured reliably.
The income tax expense or income disclosed on the face of the All other expenditure is recognised in the Income Statement as Income Statement represents the aggregate of current tax and an expense as incurred.
the movement in deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the Income Statement for the period, except to the extent that it is Property, plant and equipment is depreciated so as to write off attributable to a gain or loss that is recognised directly in the the cost of assets, using the straight-line method, with the Statement of Comprehensive Income or equity.
In such cases exception of motor vehicles, over their estimated useful lives, the gain or loss shown in equity is stated separately from the as follows: attributable income tax, which is also recognised directly Leasehold improvements over 10 years or lease term if in equity.
shorter Current tax is the expected tax payable to, or receivable from, Computer equipment over 3 years the taxation authorities on the taxable profit or loss for the Office furniture & equipment over 3-5 years period, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date, and includes any adjustment to tax payable in Motor vehicles 25% reducing balance respect of previous years.
Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is recognised as Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on an expense in the Income Statement.
differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities The carrying value of assets and their useful lives are reviewed in the Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis at each reporting date.
If an indication of impairment exists, the used in the computation of taxable profit or loss, accounted for assets are written down to their recoverable amount and the using the reporting date liability method.
impairment is charged to the Income Statement in the period in Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to which it arises.
apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon realised, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively disposal or when no further future economic benefits are enacted at the reporting date.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable of the asset calculated as the fair value less costs to sell is temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to included in the Income Statement in the year the asset the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available is derecognised.
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised, except: k Intangible assets where the deferred tax asset or liability arises from the initial i Goodwill recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a Goodwill arising from a business combination is initially transaction that is not a business combination that at the measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business time of the transaction affects neither the accounting nor combination over the Groups interest in the fair value of the taxable profit or loss: or identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any in respect of taxable or deductible temporary differences accumulated impairment losses.
associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences Business combinations arising after 31 December 2009 are can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary accounted for under IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations.
differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Where the initial amount of goodwill can only be determined on a provisional basis at the end of the financial reporting period, 66 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies adjustments are made to the amount of goodwill up to twelve lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored months from the date of acquisition to the extent that they relate for internal management purposes.
to revisions to the quantum of net assets acquired.
Any Where intangible assets form part of a cash-generating unit and adjustment to the initial consideration, including amounts which part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the are conditional upon performance criteria, are recognised in the intangible assets associated with the operation disposed of are Income Statement in the period in which the subsequent included in the carrying amount of the operation when change arises.
determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying m Financial instruments value may be impaired.
Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables ii Investment management contracts or available for sale financial assets.
Investment management contracts acquired separately are Financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus directly measured on initial recognition at cost.
attributable transaction costs, where investments are not The measurement of investment management contracts classified as fair value through profit or loss.
acquired in a business combination is recognised at fair value at The fair value of instruments that are actively traded in organised the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible financial markets is determined by reference to quoted market assets are carried at initial fair value less accumulated bid prices mid price for OEICs at the close of business on the amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
For investments where there is no active market, The useful lives of investment management contracts are finite fair value is determined using valuation methodologies, as and such contracts are amortised on a straight-line basis over described below.
their estimated useful lives or average contractual term, with Financial instruments are classified into the categories described amortisation being charged to the Income Statement.
Details of below: estimated useful lives are shown in note 14. i Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss iii Software and licences include investments that are held for trading purposes or This comprises both internally generated software and acquired that have been specifically designated as at fair value licences.
Separately purchased software and licences have a through profit or loss.
They are carried in the Statement of finite life and are shown at cost less accumulated amortisation Financial Position at fair value and movements in fair value and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is are taken to the Income Statement in the period in which charged to the Income Statement in equal annual instalments, they arise.
Interest and dividend income on these financial based on the following useful economic lives: instruments is recognised separately in finance revenue.
Software 3-7 years The Group has adopted trade date accounting for Licences 3 years purchases or sales of financial assets under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time Subsequent expenditure on capitalised software and licences is frame established in the marketplace concerned.
Accordingly, such financial instruments are recognised on the date the Group commits to the purchase of the l Impairment of intangible assets investments, and are derecognised on the date it commits At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is an to their sale.
indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing is required, the Group The Group has adopted the fair value option in IAS 39, makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
An which enables the liabilities in respect of the Groups unitassets recoverable amount is the higher of an assets or cashlinked investment contracts to be matched to the fair value generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use, of the related assets which are solely attributable to the and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does investment contract policyholders, thus reflecting the not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those contractual entitlement of the policyholders.
Differences in from other assets or groups of assets.
Where the carrying fair values are taken to the Income Statement.
amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset ii Available for sale financial assets are also carried at fair is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable value in the Statement of Financial Position.
Any impairment arising is recognised in the Income assets where the Group has a passive interest are classified Statement.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash as available for sale.
In respect of unquoted instruments, or flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair that reflects current market assessments of the time value of value is established by using recognised valuation money and the risks specific to the asset.
methodologies, in accordance with International Private For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
Where business combination is allocated to a cash-generating unit that insufficient information exists to produce a valuation then is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
the price of recent investments is used.
Alternative Each unit to which the goodwill is so allocated represents the methodologies include using: recent arms length market ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 67 transactions: reference to the current market value of Separately, where the Group holds carried interest investments another instrument which is substantially the same: or which are not linked to investment vehicles managed by the discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
Group, then such investments are classified as available for sale.
For unquoted investments in early stage enterprises and Financial assets and liabilities enterprises with revenues but without significant profits or Derecognition of financial assets significant positive cash flows, fair value is determined using A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset, the price of a recent investment method.
Repayments are is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the treated as reductions to carrying value.
After an appropriate asset have expired.
period, an assessment is made as to whether the circumstances of the investment have changed such that Derecognition of financial liabilities another valuation methodology is appropriate, and whether A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the there is any evidence of deterioration or strong defensible liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
evidence of an increase in value.
In the absence of these indicators, fair value is determined to be that reported at the Renegotiation of the terms of financial assets previous reporting date.
Where financial assets past due have been renegotiated, the Group classifies these assets in accordance with the revised Unquoted investments with revenues, maintainable profits terms and conditions.
and or maintainable cash flows are valued by deriving an Enterprise Value of the underlying business.
Impairment of financial assets Movements in fair value, other than impairment losses and The Group assesses at each reporting date whether a financial foreign exchange movements on monetary assets, are asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
taken to the fair value reserve in equity until derecognition of the asset, at which time the cumulative amount in this Assets carried at amortised cost reserve is recognised in the Income Statement.
If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortised cost has been incurred, the iii Loans and receivables are measured on initial recognition at amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated incurred.
Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is effective interest rate method.
Gains and losses are reduced and the amount of the loss is recognised in the recognised in the Income Statement when loans and Income Statement.
receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the decrease can be related objectively to an iv Other financial liabilities include the NCI put options which event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the are recognised at fair value through profit or loss.
previously recognised impairment loss is reversed.
Any The NCI put options, over equity in majority-owned subsequent reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the subsidiaries, are recognised at fair value at the reporting Income Statement to the extent that the carrying value of the date.
Upon initial recognition the fair value of the put option asset does not exceed its amortised cost at the reversal date.
Subsequent movements to the fair value are reflected in the Income Statement.
Fair value is the Available for sale financial assets amount at which a derivative could be exchanged in a If an available for sale asset is impaired, an amount comprising transaction at the reporting date between willing parties.
the difference between its cost net of any principal payment and amortisation and its current fair value, less any impairment The remaining financial liabilities are recognised at amortised loss previously recognised in the Income Statement, is cost using the effective interest rate after initial recognition.
transferred from equity to the Income Statement.
Reversals in Expenses incurred in respect of raising capital on interestrespect of equity instruments classified as available for sale are bearing loans and borrowings are amortised over the term not recognised in the Income Statement.
Reversals of of the loan on an effective interest rate basis.
These impairment losses on debt instruments are taken through the expenses are offset against the loan amount.
Income Statement if the increase in fair value of the instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the Income Statement.
Carried interest entitlement The Group has a number of investments which provide it with carried interest entitlement, which is typically linked to the n Fair value measurement investment performance of the underlying funds exceeding The Group measures financial instruments and non-financial long-term hurdle rates.
In a number of instances a share of such assets at fair value at each balance sheet date.
The fair values carry falls to the benefit of the individual members.
of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in note 15.
These carried interest investments are classified as fair value through profit or loss and any amounts payable to individual Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or members are included within member distributions in the paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between Income Statement and classified as a liability.
market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value 68 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction Unit-linked policyholder assets held by MPF and related to sell the asset or transfer the liability is conducted in either: policyholder liabilities are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value taken to profit or loss.
The principal market for the asset or liability: or Amounts received from and paid to investors under these In the absence of a principal market, the most contracts are accounted for as deposits received or paid, and advantageous market for the asset or liability.
therefore not recorded in the Income Statement.
At the reporting The fair value of an asset or liability is measured using the date the value of these contracts is stated at an amount equal assumption that market participants would use when pricing the to the fair value of the net assets held to match the contractual asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their obligations.
q Employee and member benefits A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participants ability to generate economic i Short-term employee benefits benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use capacity Short-term employee benefits are employee benefits other than or by selling it to another market participant that would use the termination benefits that are expected to be settled wholly asset in its highest and best use capacity.
before twelve months after the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related services.
The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data is available to Short-term compensated absences are recognised, in the case measure fair value, maximising the use of observable inputs and of accumulating compensated absences, when the employees minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
render service that increases their entitlement to future compensated absences or, in the case of non-accumulating All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or compensated absences, when the absences occur.
disclosed in the Financial Statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described below, and based on the lowest ii Profit-sharing and bonus payments level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as Profit share and bonus entitlements are recognised when there a whole: is a present legal or constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past events and a reliable estimate of Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active the obligation can be made.
markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level iii Profit entitlement of members of Limited Liability input that is significant to the fair value measurement is Partnerships directly or indirectly observable: Where a member of a Limited Liability Partnership LLP has an automatic entitlement to distributions of partnership profits in Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level respect of their services, an expense distributions to members input that is significant to the fair value measurement of LLPs and a liability liabilities to members of LLPs are is unobservable.
recognised as their services are rendered during an External valuers are involved in the valuation of the F&C REIT accounting period.
put option and the carried interest elements in certain private equity funds.
iv Pension obligations Defined benefit schemes Carried interest investments are valued in accordance with the The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension underlying property or private equity valuations and the arrangements.
These schemes provide benefits based on final underlying Partnership Agreements.
o Cash and cash equivalents The pension liability recognised in the Statement of Financial Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, deposits Position is the present obligation of the employer, which is the held at call with banks, and other short-term, highly liquid estimated present value of future benefits that employees have investments in money-market instruments with original maturity earned in return for their services in the current and prior years, dates of three months or less.
less the value of the plan assets in the schemes.
The discount rate applied to the employees benefits is the appropriate p Investment contracts corporate bond yield at the reporting date which has a maturity The Group used to sell unit-linked pension investment contracts date similar to the terms of the Groups obligations.
A qualified through its insurance entity, F&C Managed Pension Funds actuary performs the calculation annually using the projected Limited MPF.
These unit-linked contracts involved both the unit credit method.
transfer of a financial instrument and the provision of investment The defined benefit pension costs in the Income Statement are management services.
The financial instrument component is analysed into: classified as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
The financial liability is measured using a valuation technique current service cost, which is the actuarially calculated based on the carrying value of the assets and liabilities that are present value of the benefits earned by the active held to back the contract.
These are recognised in the Income Statement: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 69 past service costs, which relate to employee service in prior Statement is equal to the estimated fair value of the award periods, and arise as a result of the introduction of, or multiplied by the number of awards expected to vest.
Vesting of improvement to, retirement benefits in the current period.
awards typically depends upon meeting continued employment These are recognised in the Income Statement on a and or defined performance criteria such as underlying EPS straight-line basis over the period in which the increase in targets, net new business, investment performance or share benefits vests: price return targets.
settlements or curtailments recognised in the Income The fair value of share-based payment awards, where it is not Statement to the extent that they are not allowed for in the considered possible to estimate reliably the fair value of these actuarial assumptions.
Gains or losses on settlements or awards at the grant date, is determined by measurement of the curtailments are recognised at the date on which there is a equity instruments at intrinsic value.
The intrinsic value is spread demonstrable commitment to making a significant reduction over the vesting period.
in the number of employees covered by the plan, or an Vesting of equity-settled employee share awards depends upon amendment to the terms of the plan: and meeting market-related and or non-market related performance the net interest on the net defined benefit liability asset.
The type of vesting criteria affects the calculation of This represents the change during the period in the net the expense charged to the Income Statement and subsequent defined benefit liability asset that arises from the passage adjustments, as follows: of time.
This net interest expense is recognised in finance i Non-market related conditions are performance criteria not costs.
directly linked to Company share price targets, such as EPS The actuarial gains and losses, which arise from any new targets and or continued employment.
The probability of valuation and from updating the previous actuarial valuation to meeting non-market conditions is incorporated into the reflect conditions at the reporting date, are taken in full to the expense charge via the estimate of the number of awards Statement of Comprehensive Income for the period.
The total cumulative expense is reassessed at each reporting date and is ultimately adjusted Defined contribution schemes to reflect the actual number of awards which vest.
Contributions made to these schemes are charged to the Therefore, if no awards vest, no cumulative expense charge Income Statement as they become payable, in accordance with is ultimately recognised.
ii Market-related conditions are performance criteria linked to Company share price targets.
The probability of meeting v Other long-term employee benefits market conditions is incorporated into the calculation of the Other long-term employee benefits are recognised at the fair value of the award.
Should the market-based discounted present value of the obligation at the reporting date.
performance conditions not ultimately be met, no trueThe benefit is determined using actuarial techniques to estimate up down adjustment is made to reflect this.
Therefore, an the amount of benefit employees have earned for their services expense charge is made whether market-based awards at the reporting date.
vi Termination benefits IFRS 2 Share-based Payment makes a distinction between Termination benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense awards settled in equity and those settled in cash.
Equity-settled when the Group is committed to the termination of employment awards are charged to the Income Statement with a before the normal retirement date.
Termination benefits are corresponding credit to equity.
They are not subsequently rerecognised only when the offer cannot be withdrawn, or when measured, except where calculated at intrinsic value.
the related restructuring costs are recognised as a provision.
Cash-settled awards are charged to the Income Statement with a corresponding credit to liabilities.
The estimated fair value of r Share-based payments cash-settled awards is re-measured at each reporting date until The Group operates a number of share scheme arrangements the payments are ultimately settled.
which require to be accounted for as share-based payments.
Awards to employees treated as good leavers vest immediately All grants of shares, share options or other share-based and the remaining full expense of the awards is charged to the instruments that were granted after 7 November 2002 have Income Statement at that time.
Good leavers include retirees been recognised as an expense.
Where applicable, the fair and involuntary redundancies.
values of share-based payment awards are measured using a valuation model applicable to the terms of the awards Black The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as Scholes, Binomial or Monte Carlo simulation.
The fair value is additional share dilution in the computation of diluted EPS.
measured by an independent external valuer at the date the award is granted and the expense is spread over the period s Provisions during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to A provision is recognised in the Statement of Financial Position exercise the awards, known as the vesting period.
Where when the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result options exist for awards to vest on more than one date, the of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic expense is initially spread over the period to the earliest possible benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised in the Income 70 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Accounting Policies material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected Ordinary Share capital future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market When Ordinary Shares are repurchased, the amounts of assessments of the time value of money and, where consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, are appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
No provision is recognised in the own share reserve included within retained established where a reliable estimate of the obligation cannot earnings and are classified as deductions in equity.
Companys dealings in its own shares are reflected through equity.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be recovered from external parties, the recovery is recognised Dividends on Ordinary Shares are recognised on the date as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is of payment, or if subject to approval, the date approved by virtually certain.
Where the Group has obligations under property leases and u Accounting for Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs where the space has ceased to be used for the purposes of the The Group has several EBTs which own shares in the Company business, full provision is made for future net outstanding and other investments to enable it to satisfy future settlements liabilities under such leases after taking into account the effect of of share-based awards and other employee benefits.
The assets any expected sub-letting arrangements.
of the EBTs, which relate to unvested awards, are consolidated into the Groups results, with these own shares included within t Share capital retained earnings at cost.
Consideration received for such When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial shares is also recognised in retained earnings.
No gain or loss is liability of the Company or Group is presented as a liability in the recognised in the performance statements on the purchase, Statement of Financial Position, measured initially at fair value, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Other investments net of transaction costs and thereafter at amortised cost until held by EBTs are recognised as assets at fair value in the extinguished on conversion or redemption.
The remainder of the issue proceeds is allocated to the equity component and included in shareholders equity, net of transaction costs.
v New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards, relevant to the Group, which have not yet been applied or have an effective date after the date of these Financial Statements: Effective for accounting periods International Accounting Standards IAS IFRS beginning on or after Endorsed by the European Union and available for early adoption: Improvements to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12 June 2012 Transition Guidance 1 January 2013 Improvements to IFRSs 2009 2011 May 2012 Improvements to IFRS 1, IAS 1, IAS 16, IAS 32 and IAS 34 1 January 2013 Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 27 Investment Entities 1 January 2014 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements 1 January 2014 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities 1 January 2014 IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements 1 January 2014 IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2014 IAS 32 Amendment Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities 1 January 2014 Not yet endorsed by the European Union: IFRIC Interpretation 21 Levies 1 January 2014 IAS 19 Amendment Defined Benefit Plans: Employee Contributions 1 July 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 2012 Cycle Issued 12 December 2013 1 July 2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2011 2013 Cycle Issued 12 December 2013 1 July 2014 Amendments to IFRS 7 and IFRS 9 Mandatory Effective Date and Transition Disclosure 1 January 2015 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts 1 January 2016 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and subsequent amendments 1 January 2018 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 71 Impact of new accounting standards IFRS 12 requires an entity to disclose information about: The list of new and revised standards, which are effective for a the significant judgements and assumptions it has made in periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, which could determining the nature of its interest in another entity or affect the Group, are as follows: arrangement, and in determining the type of joint IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements arrangement in which it has an interest: and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements b its interests in: IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities i subsidiaries: IAS 27 revised Separate Financial Statements IAS 28 revised Investments in Associates ii joint arrangements and associates: and IFRS 10 defines the principle of control and establishes control iii structured entities that are not controlled by the entities.
as the basis for consolidation.
A company is required to consolidate an investee when an investor is exposed, or has IAS 27 revised and IAS 28 revised are largely changes as a consequence of the new IFRS 10, 11 and 12 standards.
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect these returns through its power over The assessment of these standards is ongoing.
It is anticipated the investee.
IFRS10 does not impact how to consolidate, but that IFRS 12 will result in significant disclosures around rather when to consolidate, an entity.
IFRS 11 defines joint control and requires an entity that is a Other standards effective beyond 2014, which will impact the party to a joint arrangement to determine the type of joint Group include: arrangement in which it is involved by assessing its rights and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and subsequent amendments obligations and to account for those rights and obligations in accordance with that type of joint arrangement.
The Group is assessing the impact of the other new and revised standards to be implemented in 2014 and beyond.
The Group A joint arrangement is classified as either a joint operation or a intends to adopt the standards in the reporting period in which joint venture.
A joint operation is where the parties have rights to they become effective.
the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the arrangement.
A joint venture, which can only apply where there is a separate vehicle, applies where the parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
