Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law integrity of the corporate and financial information included and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare on the Companys pages of the Managers website financial statements for each financial year.
Visitors to the website need to be have elected to prepare the Financial Statements in accordance aware that legislation in the UK governing the preparation with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as and dissemination of the Financial Statements may di er adopted by the European Union.
from legislation in their jurisdictions.
The Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and We con rm that to the best of our knowledge the Financial fair view of the state of a airs of the Company and of the pro t Statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable or loss for the period.
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of In preparing these Financial Statements the Directors are the Company: and the Directors Report includes a fair review required to: of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company together with a description of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
consistently: Approved by the Board on 17 June 2013 and signed on its make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and behalf.
prudent: state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis John Owen unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will Chairman continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, including a Business Review, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 23
