Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or China Special Situations PLC will be held at Merchant Taylors agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB, on 24 July 2013 might require relevant securities to be allotted after such at 12.00 noon for the following purposes: expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial 13.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 12 set out above, the Statements for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as 2.
To approve the final dividend.
defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority given by the said resolution 12 as if Section 561 of 3.
To re-elect Mr John Owen as a Director.
the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 4.
To re-elect Mr Nicholas Bull as a Director.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a 5.
To re-elect Mr David Causer as a Director.
rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant equity securities where the equity securities attributable 6.
To re-elect The Hon Peter Pleydell-Bouverie as a Director.
respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be 7.
To re-elect Ms Elisabeth Scott as a Director.
to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the 8.
To re-elect Mr Andrew Wells as a Director.
rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to ended 31 March 2013. fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory 10.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of the body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which Financial Statements are laid before the b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue Company.
of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 637,979 approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal 11.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors amount of the issued share capital of the Company as at remuneration.
17 June 2013 : and SPECIAL BUSINESS c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less Resolutions 12 and 13 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to than the Net Asset Value per share.
allot a limited number of the currently unissued Ordinary Shares for cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 the Board is 10% of the number of Ordinary Shares of the months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the Company in issue on 17 June 2013.
The Directors will only issue earlier, save that this authority shall allow the Company to new Ordinary Shares under this authority to take advantage of make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe it and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions resolution had not expired.
which will be proposed, resolution 12 as an ordinary resolution and resolution 13 as a special resolution: Resolution 14 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renewthe Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the 12.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and number of Ordinary Shares in issue on 17 June 2013 for unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of cancellation.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will be at the the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from time to time of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that by the Board in the light of prevailing market conditions.
section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 637,979 Purchases will only be made in themarket at prices below the approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the prevailing Net Asset Value per share, thereby resulting in an issued share capital of the Company as at 17 June 2013 such increased Net Asset Value per share.
authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 55 Notice of Meeting Notes: 1 4.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 693 of General meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and to the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market speak and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that Ordinary Shares of 1 penny each in the capital of the each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different Company the shares provided that: share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be 2.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrars at purchased shall be 95,633,100: the address on the form to arrive not later than 12.00 noon on 22 July 2013.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in 1penny: person if they so wish.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of any amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by market quotations for a share taken from the London the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, StockExchange Official List for the five business days Capita Registrars, PXS, The Registry, 24 Beckenham Road, immediately preceding the day on which the share is Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU not less than 48 hours before the time for purchased: holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the used.
Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such 4.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the time: and vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of 5.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously such authority which will or may be executed wholly or appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be partly after the expiration of such authority and may make received by the issuers agent RA10 by 12.00 noon on 22 July 2013. a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the By Order of the Board CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to FIL Investments International retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a Secretary proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored 17 June 2013 members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting Registered office: service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
Beech Gate For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems Millfield Lane timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a Lower Kingswood proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Tadworth Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Surrey KT20 6RP In any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys Registrars no later than 12.00 noon on 22 July 2013.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be determined by reference to the Register of Members as at 12.00 noon on 22 July 2013.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him and the member by whom he was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can only be exercised by members of the Company.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 56 Notice of Meeting 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or discretion as to how the votes which are the subject of those proxies vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the when added to the interests in the Companys securities already held matter to be included in the business of the meeting, must be by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure the Company not later than 12 June 2013, being the date six clear and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included notifications to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
As in the business of the meeting only must be accompanied by a a result, any member holding three per cent or more of the voting statement setting out the grounds for the request.
rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy 15.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency 16.
A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company and the of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Companys website at Financial Conduct Authority.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the register of members by 6.00pm on 22 July 2013.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the register of members at 6.00pm on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
As at 17 June 2013 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 637,979,480 Ordinary Shares carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 17 June 2013 was 637,979,480.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, including communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the meeting.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which the Annual Report and Financial Statements were laid.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed resolution which may be properly included in such business.
A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business of the meeting unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 57 Glossary to the Annual Report AIC the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance, as amended from time to time American Depository Receipt or ADR a negotiable certi cate issued by a US Bank representing a speci ed number of shares in a foreign stock that is traded on a US Exchange Articles of Association the articles of association of the Company, as amended from time to time Auditor Grant Thornton UK LLP or such other auditor as the Company may appoint from time to time Benchmark Morgan Stanley China Index MSCI China Index sterling adjusted and is a composite of China B, H, Red Chip and P Chip share classes Board of Directors the Board of Directors of the Company or any duly constituted Committee thereof Capita or Capita Registrars a trading name for Capita Registrars Limited, the Companys Registrars Cenkos Securities Cenkos Securities plc, the Companys broker China or PRC the Peoples Republic of China excluding Taiwan, Hong Kong and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the PRC China A Shares Shares traded on the Chinese Stock Exchanges in Chinese renminbi.
Historically, foreign in vestors were unable to participate in the China A Share market.
However, following Chinas introduction of the QFII program in 2002, a legal framework has been provided for licensed QFIIs to invest in China A Shares on the Chinese Stock Exchanges and certain other securities previously not eligible for investment by foreign investors China B Shares Shares traded on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shanghai Stock Exchange in Hong Kong dollars and US dollars, respectively.
China B Shares were originally intended to be available only to foreign individual and institutional investors.
However, since February 2001, China B Shares have been available to domestic individual investors who trade through legal foreign currency accounts China H Shares Shares in companies incorporated in the PRC which are listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
China H Shares are available to non-Chinese investors and are traded in Hong Kong dollars on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Chinese Stock Exchanges the Shanghai Stock Exchange, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and any other stock exchange located within the PRC from time to time Collateral assets provided as security Company Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Contract For Di erence or CFD a contract between the Company and an investment bank at the end of which the parties exchange the di erence between the opening and closing price of the underlying asset of a speci ed financial instrument.
The Company may reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or fall, by selling short position.
A Contract For Di erence does not involve buying or selling the underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement in its share price.
If the Company trades long, dividends are received and interest is paid.
If the Company trades short, dividends are paid and interest is received.
A Contract For Di erence only requires a small deposit margin on trades Custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. London branch Custody Agreement the agreement between the Custodian and the Company regarding the custody of the assets of the Company dated 25 February 2010 Debt Bank borrowings and long CFDs Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 58 Glossary to the Annual Report Derivatives financial instruments whose value is derived from the value of an underlying asset or other financial instruments such as stocks, bonds, currency exchange rates, real estate and commodities, or market benchmarks such as interest rates.
The main categories of derivatives are Contracts For Di erence, futures, options and swaps Directors Directors of the Company listed in the section headed Board of Directors, and Director shall mean any one of them Disclosure and Transparency Rules the disclosure rules made by the UK Listing Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended from time to time Discount if the share price of the Company is lower than the net asset value per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per share Equity Linked Notes or ELN debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to speci c equities or equity markets.
The return on equity linked notes may be determined by an equity index, a basket of equities, or a single equity Fair Value represents the carrying value in the Balance Sheet and it is also the di erence between settlement price and the underlying value of the security FIL FIL Limited and each of its subsidiaries FIL Limited FIL Limited incorporated in Bermuda, the ultimate parent company of the FIL Group of companies Fidelity FIL Investments International Form of Proxy the form of proxy for use by shareholders in respect of the Annual General Meeting Forward Future Contract a forward is an agreement to buy or sell a currency, commodity or other asset at a speci ed future date and at a predetermined price.
It is not standardised and is not traded on organised exchanges.
A future is an agreement to buy or sell a stated amount of a security, currency or commodity at a speci c future date and at a pre-agreed price FRC Financial Reporting Council Gearing Gross Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets Gross Assets Net Assets plus borrowings Gross Asset Exposure the value of the portfolio to which the Company is exposed, whether through direct or indirect investment including the economic value of the exposure in the underlying asset of the derivatives, but excluding forward currency contracts Hedging a hedge position will demonstrate risk reduction qualities by delivering short exposure to an asset which has regional congruence and a correlation of at least 80% to long exposures in the Companys portfolio.
It therefore distinguishes itself from a short which is a position not opened with the objective of reducing the long exposure in the portfolio.
Qualifying hedge exposures do not count towards the short exposure limits.
For the purposes of calculating Gross Asset Exposure the exposure attributed to the hedge positions will be deducted from the exposure of the corresponding long positions IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Index linked securities debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to changes in interest rates, stock exchanges, or other price indices Investment Manager or Manager FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited Investment Managers or Managers together, the Investment Manager and the Unlisted Investment Manager Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 59 Glossary to the Annual Report Management Agreement the agreement between FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and the Company regarding the management of the Companys investments dated 25February 2010 Management Agreements together the Management Agreement and the Unlisted Management Agreement Management Fee the annual management fee which is calculated as 1.5% of NAV 1.2% of NAV with e ect from 1 April 2013 Marked-to-market assigning a value based on the current fair market price Money market instruments short-term debt instruments that provide the unconditional right to receive a stated, xed sum of money on a speci ed date.
Money market instruments include treasury bills, bonds, commercial and financial paper, bankers acceptances, negotiable certi cates of deposit and short-term notes issued under note issuance facilities MSCI China Index the benchmark of the investment performance of the Company is the Morgan Stanley China Index, UK sterling equivalent MSCI China Mid Cap Index designed to measure the performance of the mid cap segment of the China market.
The Index represents approximately 15% of the free oat-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity universe.
It has 306 constituents with a total market cap size of US$255,893m MSCI China Small Cap Index designed to measure the performance of the small cap segment of the China market.
The Index represents approximately 14% of the free oat-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity universe.
It has 321 constituents with a total market cap size of US$99,998m Net Asset Value or NAV per Ordinary Share the NAV per Ordinary Share is calculated as shareholders funds divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue Options or options contract options provide the right to acquire or sell instruments at an agreed price at an agreed date.
Options may be call or put and are used to gain or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of 1 penny each in the capital of the Company and Ordinary Share means any one of them P Chips companies controlled by mainland individuals, with the establishment and origin of the company in mainland China.
P Chips are incorporated outside of the Peoples Republic of China PRC and traded on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong with a majority of revenues or assets derived from Mainland China Performance Fee the Investment Managers are entitled to an annual Performance Fee of 15% of any change in NAV attributable to performance which is more than 2% above the returns on the MSCI China Index, subject to a maximum Performance Fee payable in any year equal to 1.5% of the arithmetic mean of the value of assets with the valuation calculated at the end of each month during the year Portfolio The Companys portfolio can be made up of equities, index linked, equity linked and other debt securities, cash deposits, money market instruments, foreign currency exchange transactions and other interests including derivative instruments such as futures, options and contracts for di erence Portfolio Manager The current individual appointed as Portfolio Manager is Anthony Bolton Pre-emption rights Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company which o ers equity securities must first make an o er of those securities, on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to the nominal value held by existing shareholders Premium if the share price of the Company is higher than the Net Asset Value per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a premium.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the Net Asset Value per share Prospectus the Prospectus of the Company dated 7 January 2011 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 60 Glossary to the Annual Report QFII a Quali ed Foreign Institutional Investor.
The Investment Manager is a QFII and as such has been granted a QFII licence by the China Securities Regulatory Commission CSRC which permits the Company to invest in China A Shares through the Investment Manager and has received an allocation of quota for onshore investment from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC SAFE Red Chips Red Chip is the term used to describe companies incorporated outside China but which are based in mainland China.
Red Chips are listed on, and are required to observe the ling and reporting requirements of, the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Red Chips typically have a signi cant portion of their business interests located in mainland China and many are owned, either directly or indirectly, by organisations or enterprises controlled by the Chinese state, provinces or municipalities Registrar Capita Registrars Renminbi currency of the PRC Secretarial Agreement the agreement between the Secretary and the Company regarding the provision of company secretarial and administrative services dated 25 February 2010 Secretary FIL Investments International Shareholders funds the value of the Companys assets less all its liabilities as shown in the balance sheet Short stock exposure the position of the Company when it has sold a security or derivative that it did not own but is now committed to eventually purchase to satisfy its obligation to sell, being a strategy used to capitalise on an expected decline in the securitys or derivatives price SORP Statement of Recommended Practice Unlisted Investment Manager FIL Investments International Unlisted Management Agreement the Agreement between FIL Investments International and the Company regarding the management of the Companys unlisted investments Unlisted securities securities which are not listed on a regulated stock exchange Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 61 Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC The information on the following pages is provided by Fidelity and should not be seen as a recommendation by the Board of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
Fidelity offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way having to pay brokerage fees.
You will also be able to set up a that is best for you.
As Fidelity China Special Situations PLC is a monthly savings plan and receive statements and valuations twice company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy a year.
its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible and INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA inexpensive way to invest on behalf of children.
All you have to You may invest in the Companys shares through the Fidelity ISA do is enter the initials or name of the child in the Designation Box Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity ISA can be an excellent on the Share Pal application form.
way to get more from your investment, because you will not have to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or holding shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other than The maximum investment in a stocks and shares ISA for the stamp duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share 2013 2014 tax year is 11,520.
The full amount may be invested in purchases.
However, if you invest through a Financial Adviser, a Stocks and Shares ISA, or you can invest up to half the ISA there may be additional fees of up to 3% agreed with your allowance in a Cash ISA and the balance in a Stocks and Shares advisor.
The minimum investment per fund in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up, or 50 a month per company in BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES INFORMATION RIGHTS a regular savings plan.
Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are able to nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their shares to Charges Initial Charges for investments in the Fidelity ISA may receive information rights.
You should contact your registered vary.
For those investing personally directly with Fidelity, there shareholder direct to request to receive your information rights.
will be no initial charge.
Those investing through an intermediary Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been will pay a basic initial charge of 0.5% plus any initial fee or nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive commission where applicable agreed with their intermediary.
information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial charge.
There are no are required to direct all communications to the registered holder other charges for the Fidelity ISA, but the Company pays an of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrars, Capita annual management charge to Fidelity of 0.85% plus a Registrars, or to the Company direct.
performance related fee where applicable, as set out in the Annual Report.
INVESTING ONLINE Whilst you cannot use a Debit Card online to invest through an MOVING MONEY FROM A PREVIOUS ISA ISA, JISA or Share Plan the application forms you need are all If you have opened ISAs with other investment companies, you available via www.
You can also invest online in can move them into the Fidelity ISA and invest in Fidelity China Fidelity China Special Situations PLC shares via the share trading Special Situations PLC without losing any tax benefits.
This is facility available via www.
The Share known as an ISA transfer and it can be a great way to give your Dealing service, ShareNetwork, is provided by Xest which is the portfolio a new focus, or to realign it with your current investment online trading division of Charles Stanley & Co Limited, a leading goals.
Please note that during the transfer your money will not be London stockbroker.
ShareNetwork enables you to buy or sell invested in the stock market so you may miss out on any growth shares in any listed company during normal London Stock during this time.
Exchange trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct or in an Charges Fidelity does not apply an initial charge for a transfer ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You will be into Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
You will also not have to shown a live price and be able to buy or sell immediately.
If an pay any additional transfer costs.
However, please bear in mind order is placed when the market is closed, it will be processed as that your current ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
If soon as the market reopens.
Unlike many online share dealing your old fund provider charges you a fee for leaving them, you services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST personal can claim it back from us.
Please note this offer does not apply to membership for shares held direct.
This means that shares are the share dealing service.
registered on the CREST system in your own name and everything relating to your shares dividends, annual reports and so on INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend and vote If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your at shareholder meetings in your own name.
full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan offers you a low cost and convenient way to put money into Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month in a regular savings plan.
Holding shares within the Share Plan allows you to reinvest your dividends and make further investments without Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 62 Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings which must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under ISA regulations.
There is no extra charge for opening a ShareNetwork ISA and share purchases or sales are executed on line for only 9 per trade Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at the rate of 0.5%.
There is an account administration fee of 5.10 per month regardless of how many different shares you own and whatever their value.
Of course, you need to remember that the value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on your individual circumstances, and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 63 Investing in Fidelity China Special Situations PLC FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA and Junior ISA is offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited.
The content of websites referenced in this document does not form part of this document.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2013 64
