INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Warning to Shareholders SHARE FRAUD WARNING Share fraud includes scams where investors are called out of the blue and offered shares that often turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or an inflated price for shares they own.
These calls come from fraudsters operating in boiler rooms that are mostly based abroad.
While high profits are promised, those who buy or sell shares in this way usually lose their money.
The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has found most share fraud victims are experienced investors who lose an average of 20,000, with around 200m lost in the UK each year.
PROTECT YOURSELF If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or research reports, you should take these steps before handing over any money: 1.
Get the name of the person and organisation contacting you.
Check the FCA Register at www.
uk register to ensure they are authorised.
Use the details on the FCA Register to contact the firm.
Call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are no contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Search the FCAs website of unauthorised firms and individuals to avoid doing business with.
REMEMBER: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
REPORT A SCAM If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, where you can find out about the latest investment scams.
You can also call the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 69 Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certified paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled fibre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin fibre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a verified, carbon offsetting project.
