GOVERNANCE Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also and financial statements in accordance with applicable law responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report, andregulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare a Corporate Governance Statement and a Directors Remuneration financial statements for each financial period.
Under that Report that comply with that law andthose regulations.
lawthey have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Directors have delegated responsibility for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included The financial statements are required by law to give a true and on the Companys pages of the Managers website www.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit co. uk its.
Visitors to the website need to beaware that legislation or loss for the period.
in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are legislation in their own jurisdictions.
required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge the financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply them statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set consistently: ofaccounting standards, give a true and fair view of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the and prudent: Company: and the Strategic Report and Directors Report include state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been a fair review of thedevelopment and performance of the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and business and the position of the Company together with a explained in the financial statements: and description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Weconfirm that we consider the annual report and accounts, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and continue in business.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business and strategy.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable Approved by the Board on 10 March 2014 and signed on its accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and behalf.
to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Humphrey van der Klugt Chairman Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 35
