INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary of Terms AIF DEPOSITARY Alternative Investment Fund.
An entity that will oversee the custody, cash arrangements and other AIFM responsibilities of the Company.
The Board have AIFM agreed, in principle, that J. P. Morgan Europe Limited will act as Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
The Board have agreed, in the Companys depositary.
principle, that FIL Investment Services UK Limited will act as the Companys AIFM.
DERIVATIVES Financial instruments such as futures, options and Contracts AIFMD For Difference whose value is derived from the value of an The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 2011 61 EU underlying asset.
which is a European Union Directive that came into force on 22 July 2013 and has a transitional implementation date of DISCOUNT 22July2014.
If the share price of the Company is lower than the net asset value per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading BENCHMARK INDEX at a discount.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index against which the performance net asset value.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is of the Company is measured.
more common for an investment trust to trade at a discount than a premium.
CAPITAL GAINS TAX CGT The tax which you may have to pay if you sell your shares at FAIR VALUE a profit.
The fair value is the best estimate of the value of the investments, including derivatives, at a point in time and this is measured as: COLLATERAL Asset provided as security for the unrealised gain or loss under Listed investments valued at bid prices, or last market prices, a Contract For Difference.
where available, otherwise at published price quotations: CONTRACT FOR DIFFERENCE CFD Unlisted investments valued using an appropriate valuation A Contract For Difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between technique in the absence of an active market: and the Company and an investment house at the end of which the parties exchange the difference between the opening price and Contracts For Difference are valued as the difference between the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial the settlement price of the contract and the value of the instrument.
It does not involve the Company buying or selling the underlying shares in the contract unrealised gains or losses.
underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement in its share price.
A Contract For Difference allows the Company FIDELITY to gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing a FIL Investments International.
small amount of cash known as margin.
The Company may reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or GEARING fall, by selling short position.
If the Company trades long, Gearing describes the level of a companys borrowing and is dividends are received and interest is paid.
If the Company expressed as a percentage of Shareholders funds.
It can be trades short, dividends are paid and interest is received.
The through the use of bank loans, bank overdrafts or Contracts Company only uses long Contracts for Difference.
For Difference in order to increase a companys exposure to stocks.
Gearing is permitted in order to buy or gain exposure to CORPORATION TAX further investments.
If assets rise in value, gearing magnifies the The tax the Company may have to pay on its profits.
Investment return to ordinary shareholders.
Correspondingly, if the assets fall trust companies are exempt from corporation tax on their capital in value, gearing magnifies the fall.
Contracts For Difference are gains and do not pay tax on any UK dividends.
As they can offset used as a way of gaining exposure to the price movements of expenses against any taxable income, most investment trusts do shares without buying the underlying shares directly.
not pay corporation tax and are therefore tax efficient.
GEARING PERCENTAGE CUSTODIAN In a simple example, if the company has 100 million of net An entity that holds as intermediary the Companys assets, assets and a total portfolio of 108 million, with 8 million arranges the settlement of transactions and administers income, ofborrowings either via bank loans or long Contracts For proxy voting and corporate actions.
The Companys custodian is Difference then the Shareholders funds are 8% geared.
Normally, the higher the gearing percentage, the more sensitive the Companys shares will be to the movements up and down in thevalue of the investment portfolio.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 67 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Glossary of Terms HEDGING RETURN A strategy aimed at minimising or eliminating the risk or loss The return generated in the period from the investments: through adverse movements, normally involving positions in two different markets, with one offsetting the other.
The Company uses Revenue Return reflects the dividends and interest from derivative instruments for gearing and investment rather than investments and other income, net of expenses, finance costs hedging purposes.
and taxation: MANAGER Capital Return reflects the return on capital, excluding An entity that manages the Companys assets.
The Companys any revenue return: Manager is FIL Investments International.
Total Return reflects the aggregate of revenue and capital NET ASSET VALUE NAV returns in the period.
Net asset value is sometimes also described as shareholders funds, and represents the total value of the Companys assets SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS less the total value of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is Shareholders funds are also described as net asset value common to express the net asset value on a per share basis.
and represent the total value of the Companys assets less the total value of its liabilities.
NAV PER SHARE CUM INCOME The net asset value per share including the net revenue on TOTAL PORTFOLIO EXPOSURE ordinary activities after taxation for the period, as shown in the The total of fixed asset investments at fair value plus the fair value revenue column of the Income Statement.
of the underlying securities within the Contracts For Difference.
NAV PER SHARE EX INCOME TOTAL RETURN PERFORMANCE The net asset value per share excluding the net revenue on The return on the share price or net asset value per share taking ordinary activities after taxation for the period.
into account the rise and fall of share prices and the dividends paid to shareholders.
Any dividends received by the shareholder ONGOING CHARGES are assumed to have been reinvested in additional shares Total expenses excluding finance costs and taxation incurred for share price total return or the Companys assets for net by the Company as a percentage of average net asset values asset value total return.
previously known as the total expense ratio.
PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to the nominal value held by existing shareholders.
At each annual general meeting, the Board seeks shareholder approval to disapply pre-emption right provisions, up to 5%.
PREMIUM If the share price of the Company is higher than the net asset value per share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a premium.
The premium is shown as a percentage of the net asset value.
The opposite of a premium is a discount.
REGISTRAR An entity that manages the Companys shareholders register.
The Companys registrar is Capita Asset Services.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 68
