INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity other time and or date as the Directors of the Company may European Values PLC will be held at 25 Cannon Street, London in their absolute discretion determine.
EC4M 5TA on 15 May 2014 at 12 noon for the following purposes: Resolutions 13 and 14 will, if approved, authorise the Directors to 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Report and Financial allot a limited number of the currently unissued ordinary shares for Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013. cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
To declare that a final dividend of 29.75 pence per ordinary the Board is 5% of the number of ordinary shares of the Company share be paid to shareholders who appear on the register as in issue on 6 March 2014.
The Directors will only issue new shares at close of business on 21 March 2014 for the year ended under this authority to take advantage of opportunities in the 31December 2013. market as they arise and only if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
To re-elect Mr Humphrey van der Klugt as a Director.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and 4.
To re-elect Mr James Robinson as a Director.
unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers 5.
To re-elect Mr Simon Fraser as a Director.
of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 527,035 6.
To re-elect Dr Robin Niblett as a Director.
approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company as at 6March 2014 7.
To re-elect Ms Marion Sears as a Director.
such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 months after 8.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so theCompanys Remuneration Policy set out on pages 31 and that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or 32 for the year ended 31December 2013. agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such 9.
To approve the Companys Remuneration Policy, the full text of expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had not which is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report for expired.
the year ended 31 December 2013 as set out on pages 31 and 32.
THAT, subject to the passing of Resolution 13 set out above, the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to 10.
To reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor of the Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the generalmeeting at which financial statements are laid before authority given by the said Resolution 13 as if Section 561 of the Company.
the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited: 11.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of relevant To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions equity securities where the equity securities attributable which will be proposed, in the case of Resolutions 12 and 13 as respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of ordinary resolutions and in the case of Resolutions 14, 15 and 16 such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be as specialresolutions.
to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with the Resolution 12 will, if approved, authorise the sub-division of the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in either share capital of the Company on a 10 for 1 basis.
Each of the case to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Companys ordinary shares of 25 pence will be sub-divided into Board may deem necessary or expedient in relation to 10 ordinary shares of 2.5 pence.
Further details can be found on fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems pages 22 and 23. under the laws of, or the requirements of, any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or otherwise : 12.
THAT each ordinary share of 25 pence in the capital of the Company be sub-divided into ten ordinary shares of 2.5 pence b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue each, such shares having the same rights and being subject of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of to the same restrictions save as to nominal value as set out 527,035 approximately 5% of the aggregate nominal in the Companys Articles of Association for the time being amount of the issued share capital of the Company as at provided that this resolution is conditional upon, and shall 6March 2014 : and take effect on, admission to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges c to the allotment of equity securities at a price of not less market for listed securities of the new Ordinary Shares arising than the net asset value per share from such sub-division by 8:00 a. m. on 2 June 2014 or such Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 59 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Resolution 16 is a special resolution which, if approved, will adopt Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date 15 new Articles of Association of the Company which update the months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the Companys existing Articles of Association.
The new Articles of earlier, save that this authority shall allow the Company to Association reflect recent changes to tax, regulation and company make offers or agreements before the expiry of this authority, law which affect investment trusts and the Company, in particular and the Directors may allot equity securities in relation to such 1 removing the prohibition on a distribution of realised capital an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred by this profits and 2 incorporating provisions to ensure compliance with resolution had not expired.
the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, including conferring certain powers on the Board expressly.
Further details Resolution 15 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew can be found on page 23. the Companys authority to purchase its shares for cancellation.
The limit set by the Board is 14.99% of the number of ordinary 16.
THAT with effect from the passing of this resolution, the draft shares in issue on 6March 2014.
Purchases of shares will be regulations produced to the meeting and, for the purpose of made at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set from identification, initialled by the Chairman, be adopted as the time to time by the Board and in the light of prevailing market Articles of Association of the Company in substitution for, and conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices to the exclusion of, the existing Articles of Association of the below the prevailing net asset value per share, thereby resulting Company.
in an increase in net asset value per share.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and FIL Investments International unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of Secretary the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market 10 March 2014 purchases within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company the shares provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 6,320,208 ordinary shares of 25 pence each or 63,202,080 ordinary shares of 2.5 pence each if resolution 12 is passed and becomes effective : b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 25p or 2.5p if resolution 12 is passed and becomes effective : c the maximum price which may be paid for a share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 60 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting 8 If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is given Notes: discretion as to how the votes which are the subject of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of those discretionary proxies, 1 A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the Annual when added to the interests in the Companys securities already General Meeting may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and to held by the Chairman, result in the Chairman holding such number of speak and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than voting rights that he has a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that and Transparency Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different notifications to the Company and the Financial Services Authority.
share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a member As a result, any member holding three per cent or more of the voting of the Company.
rights in the Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise 2 A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the Registrars have a notification obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency at the address on the form to arrive not later than 12 noon on 13 May Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company and the 2014.
Completion and return of the form of proxy will not prevent a Financial Services Authority.
shareholder from subsequently attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
9 Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend 3 To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any power of and vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a copy of any determining the number of votes they may cast, members must be such authority certified notarially or in some other way approved by entered on the register of members by 5.30pm on 13 May 2014. the Directors, must be deposited with the Companys Registrars, If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be Capita Asset Services, PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent entered on the register of members at 5.30pm on the day two days BR3 4ZF not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company than 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before the gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
4 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders the 10 As at 6March 2014 the latest practicable date prior to the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint publication of this document the Companys issued share capital holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the consisted of 42,162,834 ordinary shares carrying one vote each.
order in which the names stand in the Register of Members.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 6March 2014 was 42,162,834.
5 To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be 11 Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more received by the issuers agent RA10 by 12 noon on 13 May 2014. corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the to the same shares.
CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a 12 Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint proxy appointed through CREST should be communicated to the proxy understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly agreeing by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored that they are willing to receive any communications, including members and those CREST Members who have appointed voting communications relating to the Companys securities, made at the service provider s should contact their CREST sponsor or voting meeting.
service provider s for assistance with appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and systems 13 It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of the timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the a proxy appointment sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Company may be required to publish on its website a statement Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts In any case your proxy form must be received by the Companys including the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are Registrars no later than 12 noon on 13 May 2014. to be laid before the Annual General Meeting or any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office 6 All members are entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General since the previous meeting at which the annual report and financial Meeting and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be statements were laid.
The business which may be dealt with at the determined by reference to the Register of Members as at 5.30pm Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company on 13 May 2014. has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
7 Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information 14 Under Section 338 and Section 338A of the Companies Act 2006, rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between members meeting the threshold requirements in those sections him and the member by whom he was nominated, have a right to be have the right to require the Company i to give, to members of appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the the Company entitled to receive notice of the meeting, notice of meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right a resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, moved at the meeting: and or ii to include in the business to have a right to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of be dealt with at the meeting any matter other than a proposed voting rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to the resolution which may be properly included in such business.
appointment of proxies in note 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can only be exercised by members of the Company.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 61 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Notice of Meeting A resolution may properly be moved or a matter may properly be included in the business of the meeting unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys constitution or otherwise, b it is defamatory of any person, or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
Such a request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business of the meeting, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than 3 April 2014, being the date six clear weeks before the meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the business of the meeting only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request.
15 No Director has a service contract with the Company.
16 A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the Companys website at www.
co. uk its Registered Office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 62 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC The Manager of the Company FIL Investments International offers a range of options, so that you can invest in the way that is best for you.
As Fidelity European Values PLC is a company listed on the London Stock Exchange you can also buy its shares through a stockbroker, share shop or bank.
INVESTING INSIDE AN ISA Investing for children the Share Plan is a flexible and inexpensive You may invest in the Companys shares through the Fidelity ISA way to invest on behalf of children.
All you have to do is enter the Individual Savings Account.
A Fidelity ISA can be an excellent initials or name of the child in the Designation Box on the Share way to get more from your investment, because you will not have Plan application form.
to pay income or capital gains tax on your returns.
Charges There are no charges for buying, selling or holding The maximum investment in a stocks and shares ISA is 11,520 for shares through the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan other the 2013 2014 tax year and for 2014 2015 the new allowance is than stamp duty of 0.5%, which is currently payable on all share 11,880.
The full amount may be invested in a Stocks and Shares purchases.
However, if you invest through a Financial Adviser, ISA, or you can invest up to half the ISA allowance in a Cash there may be additional fees of up to 3% agreed with your adviser.
ISA and the balance in a Stocks and Shares ISA.
The minimum investment per fund in the Fidelity ISA is 1,000 as a lump sum, BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES INFORMATION RIGHTS 250 as a top-up, or 50 a month per company in a regular Registered shareholders of fully listed companies are able to savings plan.
nominate the underlying beneficial owners of their shares to receive information rights.
You should contact your registered Charges Initial Charges for investments in the Fidelity ISA may shareholder direct to request to receive your information rights.
For those investing personally directly with Fidelity, there Please note that beneficial owners of shares who have been will be no initial charge.
Those investing through an intermediary nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive will pay a basic initial charge of 0.5% plus any initial fee or information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 commission where applicable agreed with their intermediary.
are required to direct all communications to the registered holder Fidelity pays stamp duty from the initial charge.
There are of their shares rather than to the Companys Registrars, Capita no other charges for the Fidelity ISA, but the Company pays Asset Services, or to the Company direct.
an annual management charge to Fidelity of 0.85% plus a performance related fee where applicable, as set out in the INVESTING ONLINE Annual Report.
Whilst you cannot use a Debit Card online to buy an ISA, JuniorISA or Share Plan the application forms you need are all MOVING MONEY FROM A PREVIOUS ISA available via www.
You can also invest online in If you have opened ISAs with other investment companies, you Fidelity European Values PLC shares via the share trading facility can move them into the Fidelity ISA and invest in Fidelity European available via our website www.
The Values PLC without losing any tax benefits.
Please note that during Share Dealing service, ShareNetwork, is provided by Xest which is the transfer your money will not be invested in the stock market so the online trading division of Charles Stanley & Co Limited, a you may miss out on any growth during this time.
ShareNetwork enables you to buy or sell shares in any listed company during normal London Stock Charges Fidelity does not apply an initial charge for a transfer Exchange trading hours between 8am and 4.30pm any working into Fidelity European Values PLC.
You will also not have to pay day.
Shares in ShareNetwork can either be held direct or in an any additional transfer costs.
However, please bear in mind that ISA, subject to the normal ISA limits and restrictions.
You will be your current ISA manager may ask you to pay an exit fee.
If your shown a live price and be able to buy or sell immediately.
If an old fund provider charges you a fee for leaving them, you can order is placed when the market is closed, it will be processed as claim it back from us.
Please note this offer does not apply to soon as the market reopens.
Unlike many online share dealing our share dealing service.
services, Fidelity ShareNetwork gives you CREST personal membership for shares held direct.
This means that shares are INVESTING OUTSIDE AN ISA registered on the CREST system in your own name and everything If you prefer to invest outside an ISA, or have already used your relating to your shares dividends, annual reports and so on full ISA allowance, the Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan offers will be sent direct to you and you will be able to attend and vote you a low cost and convenient way to put money into Fidelity at shareholder meetings in your own name.
The minimum investment is 1,000 as a lump sum, 250 as a top-up or 50 a month through a regular Personal CREST membership does not apply to ISA holdings which savings plan.
Holding shares within the Share Plan allows you must be held in the name of the ISA managers nominee under ISA to reinvest your dividends and make further investments without regulations.
There is no extra charge for opening a ShareNetwork having to pay brokerage fees.
You will also be able to set up ISA and share purchases or sales are executed on line for only 9 a monthly savings plan and receive statements and valuations per trade Stamp duty is also payable on purchases at the rate of twice a year.
There is an account administration fee of 5.10 per month, however many different shares you own and whatever their value.
Of course, you need to remember that the value of tax savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on your individual circumstances, and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 63 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS Investing in Fidelity European Values PLC FURTHER INFORMATION For application forms or more information about any of the investment options described here, please call the Fidelity Investment Trust Line on 0800 41 41 10 and talk to a Fidelity customer representative 9am to 6pm Monday to Saturday.
Alternatively, you may like to visit the Fidelity London Investor Centre at 25 Cannon Street, next to St Pauls Cathedral.
You can also find out more by visiting fidelity.
co. uk its or contacting your Financial Adviser.
The Fidelity Individual Savings Account ISA and Junior ISA are offered and managed by Financial Administration Services Limited.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is managed by FIL Investments International.
Both companies are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The Fidelity Investment Trust Share Plan is administered by Bank of New York Mellon and shares will be held in the name of Bank of New York Nominees Limited.
The value of savings and eligibility to invest in an ISA will depend on individual circumstances and all tax rules may change in the future.
Fidelity investment trusts are managed by FIL Investments International.
Fidelity only gives information about its own products and services and does not provide investment advice based on individual circumstances.
Should you wish to seek advice, please contact a Financial Adviser.
Please note that the value of investments and the income from them may fall as well as rise and the investor may not get back the amount originally invested.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns.
For funds that invest in overseas markets, changes in currency exchange rates may affect the value of your investment.
Investing in small and emerging markets can be more volatile than older developed markets.
Reference in this document to specific securities should not be construed as a recommendation to buy or sell these securities, but is included for the purposes of illustration only.
Investors should also note that the views expressed may no longer be current and may have already been acted upon by Fidelity.
Issued by Fidelity European Values PLC Fidelity, Fidelity Worldwide Investment, the Fidelity Worldwide Investment logo and the symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited.
The content of websites referenced in this document does not form part of the Annual Report.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2013 64
