Additional disclosures Inventory holding gains and losses Exhibits Inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the The following documents are filed in the Securities and Exchange cost of sales calculated using the average cost to BP of supplies acquired Commission SEC EDGAR system, as part of this Annual Report on during the period and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out Form 20-F, and can be viewed on the SECs website.
FIFO method after adjusting for any changes in provisions where the Exhibit 1 Memorandum and Articles of Association of BP net realizable value of the inventory is lower than its cost.
Under the FIFO p. l. c. method, which we use for IFRS reporting, the cost of inventory charged Exhibit 4.1 The BP Executive Directors Incentive Plan to the income statement is based on its historic cost of purchase, or Exhibit 4.2 Amended BP Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 2005 manufacture, rather than its replacement cost.
In volatile energy markets, Exhibit 4.3 Amended Directors Secondment Agreement for this can have a significant distorting effect on reported income.
The R W Dudley amounts disclosed represent the difference between the charge to the Exhibit 4.4 Amended Directors Service Contract and Secondment income statement for inventory on a FIFO basis after adjusting for any Agreement for R W Dudley related movements in net realizable value provisions and the charge that Exhibit 4.6 Directors Service Contract for I C Conn would have arisen if an average cost of supplies was used for the period.
Exhibit 4.7 Directors Service Contract for Dr B Gilvary For this purpose, the average cost of supplies during the period is Exhibit 7 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges principally calculated on a monthly basis by dividing the total cost of inventory acquired in the period by the number of barrels acquired.
The Unaudited amounts disclosed are not separately reflected in the financial Exhibit 8 Subsidiaries included as Note 38 to the Financial statements as a gain or loss.
No adjustment is made in respect of the Statements cost of inventories held as part of a trading position and certain other Exhibit 10.1 Trust Agreement dated as of 6 August 2010 among BP temporary inventory positions.
Exploration & Production Inc. John S Martin, Jr and Kent D Syverud, as individual trustees, and Citigroup Management believes this information is useful to illustrate to investors TrustDelaware, N. A. as corporate trustee, as the fact that crude oil and product prices can vary significantly from amended by an Addendum, dated 6 August 2010 period to period and that the impact on our reported result under IFRS can be significant.
Inventory holding gains and losses vary from period to Exhibit 11 Code of Ethics period due principally to changes in oil prices as well as changes to Exhibit 12 Rule 13a 14 a Certifications underlying inventory levels.
In order for investors to understand the Exhibit 13 Rule 13a 14 b Certifications# operating performance of the group excluding the impact of oil price Exhibit 15.1 Consent of DeGolyer and MacNaughton changes on the replacement of inventories, and to make comparisons of Exhibit 15.2 Report of DeGolyer and MacNaughton operating performance between reporting periods, BPs management Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year believes it is helpful to disclose this information.
Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year Underlying replacement cost profit ended 31 December 2012.
Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year Underlying RC profit or loss is RC profit or loss after adjusting for nonended 31 December 2004. operating items and fair value accounting effects.
Underlying RC profit or Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year loss and fair value accounting effects are not recognized GAAP ended 31 December 2011. measures.
On pages 237 and 238 we provide additional information on Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2009. the non-operating items and fair value accounting effects that are used to # Furnished only.
arrive at underlying RC profit or loss in order to enable a full Included only in the annual report filed in the Securities and Exchange Commission understanding of the events and their financial impact.
BP believes that underlying RC profit or loss before interest and taxation The total amount of long-term securities of the Registrant and its is a useful measure for investors because it is a measure closely tracked subsidiaries authorized under any one instrument does not exceed 10% by management to evaluate BPs operating performance and to make of the total assets of BP p. l. c. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
financial, strategic and operating decisions and because it may help The company agrees to furnish copies of any or all such instruments to investors to understand and evaluate, in the same manner as the SEC on request.
management, the underlying trends in BPs operational performance on a comparable basis, year on year, by adjusting for the effects of these nonCertain definitions operating items and fair value accounting effects.
The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for the group is profit or loss for the year Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the attributable to BP shareholders.
The nearest equivalent measure on an meaning provided below: IFRS basis for segments is RC profit or loss before interest and taxation.
Replacement cost profit Non-GAAP information on fair value accounting effects Replacement cost RC profit or loss reflects the replacement cost of BP uses derivative instruments to manage the economic exposure supplies and is arrived at by excluding inventory holding gains and losses relating to inventories above normal operating requirements of crude oil, from profit or loss.
IFRS requires that the measure of profit or loss natural gas and petroleum products.
Under IFRS, these inventories are disclosed for each operating segment is the measure that is provided recorded at historic cost.
The related derivative instruments, however, regularly to the chief operating decision maker for the purposes of are required to be recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized performance assessment and resource allocation.
For BP, both RC profit in income because hedge accounting is either not permitted or not or loss before interest and tax and underlying RC profit or loss before followed, principally due to the impracticality of effectiveness testing interest and tax are provided regularly to the chief operating decision requirements.
Therefore, measurement differences in relation to maker.
In such cases IFRS requires that the measure of profit disclosed recognition of gains and losses occur.
Gains and losses on these for each operating segment is the measure that is closest to IFRS, which inventories are not recognized until the commodity is sold in a for BP is RC profit or loss before interest and tax.
RC profit or loss for the subsequent accounting period.
Gains and losses on the related derivative group is not a recognized GAAP measure.
The nearest equivalent GAAP commodity contracts are recognized in the income statement from the measure is profit or loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders.
BP time the derivative commodity contract is entered into on a fair value believes that replacement cost profit before interest and taxation for the basis using forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
group is a useful measure for investors because it is a profitability BP enters into commodity contracts to meet certain business measure used by management.
A reconciliation is provided between the requirements, such as the purchase of crude for a refinery or the sale of total of the operating segments measures of profit or loss and the group BPs gas production.
Under IFRS these contracts are treated as profit or loss before taxation, as required under IFRS.
See Financial derivatives and are required to be fair valued when they are managed as statements Note 7.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 269
