transport Shah Deniz gas both entities and related assets are located During the year ended 31 December 2013, BP recorded gross revenues outside Iran, in which Naftiran Intertrade Co. Limited and NICO SPV of $5,297 related to Rhum due to changes in prices related to Limited collectively, NICO or Iranian Oil Company U. K. Limited hydrocarbon stock.
These changes in prices were non-cash transactions IOC UK have interests.
Production was suspended at Rhum in which that were recorded as revenue in accordance with BP accounting policy.
IOC UK has a 50% interest in November 2010 and Rhum remains shutBP had no net profits related to Rhum during the year ended in.
On 22 October 2013, the UK government announced a temporary 31 December 2013, recording an overall loss.
management scheme the Temporary Scheme under The Hydrocarbon The re-commencement of operations at Rhum in accordance with the Temporary Management Scheme Regulations 2013 under which the Temporary Scheme see above remains contingent on the commitment UK government will assume control of and manage IOC UKs interest in of third-party contractors and financial institutions to provide services to the Rhum field, thereby permitting operations to re-commence at Rhum Rhum.
BP currently intends to continue to hold its ownership stake in the in accordance with applicable EU regulations and in compliance with US Rhum joint arrangement, and to meet any applicable obligations in laws and regulations.
respect of safety and maintenance of the facilities related to the Rhum The Shah Deniz field, its gas marketing entity and the gas pipeline entity field.
Subject to the availability of the Temporary Scheme in the future in which NICO has a 10% or less non-operating interest continue in and to the commitment of relevant third-party contractors and financial operation.
The Shah Deniz joint operation and its gas marketing and institutions to provide services to Rhum, BP also intends to recommence pipeline entities were excluded from the main operative provisions of the operations at Rhum in the future in accordance with the Temporary EU regulations as well as from the application of the new US sanctions, Scheme.
and fall within the exception for certain natural gas projects under Section 603 of ITRA.
Material contracts BP has no operations in Iran and it is BPs policy that it shall not purchase On 6 August 2010, BP entered into a trust agreement with John S Martin, Jr or ship crude oil or other products of Iranian origin.
Participants in non-BP and Kent D Syverud, as individual trustees, and Citigroup Trust Delaware, controlled or operated joint ventures may purchase Iranian-origin crude oil N. A. as corporate trustee the Trust Agreement which established the or other components as feedstock for facilities located outside the EU Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust to be funded in the amount of and US.
It is also BPs policy that BP shall not sell crude oil or other $20 billion the trust fund over the period to the fourth quarter of 2013. products into Iran.
Until January 2010, BP held an equity interest in an During the fourth quarter of 2012, BP made a final contribution to the Trust Iranian joint venture that blended and marketed automotive lubricants for to complete the funding of the full $20-billion commitment.
The trust fund is sale to domestic consumers in Iran.
BP sold its equity interest but available to satisfy legitimate individual and business claims that were continued to sell small quantities of automotive lubricants and previously administered by the Gulf Coast Claims Facility GCCF, state and components and license relevant trade marks to the current owner.
local government claims resolved by BP, final judgments and settlements, These sales of automotive lubricants and components were terminated state and local response costs, and natural resource damages and related in June 2013.
BP currently holds an interest in a non-BP operated joint costs.
The trust fund is available to satisfy claims that were previously venture which sells crude oil to an Indian entity in which NICO holds a processed through the transitional court-supervised claims facility, to fund minority, non-controlling stake.
the qualified settlement funds established under the terms of the settlement agreements with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC administered In 2012, BP became aware that a Canadian university had been using through the court-supervised settlement programme, and to satisfy claims graduate students, some of whom were nationals of Iran, on a research processed through the separate BP claims programme in respect of programme funded in part by BP.
BP suspended the programme and claimants not in the Economic and Property Damages class as determined made a voluntary disclosure to OFAC.
Also in 2012, BP became aware by the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Agreement or who that in 2010, as consideration for certain auditing services, BP effected a have requested to opt out of that settlement.
Fines, penalties and claims transfer of funds to a local Iranian consulting firm which may have been administration costs are not covered by the trust fund.
Under the terms of in violation of relevant EU notification requirements.
BP has made a the Trust Agreement, BP has no right to access the funds once they have voluntary disclosure to the applicable EU regulator of such transfer.
been contributed to the trust fund.
BP will receive funds from the trust fund Following the imposition in 2011 of further US and EU sanctions against only upon its expiration, if there are any funds remaining at that point.
BP has Syria, BP terminated all sales of crude oil and petroleum products into the authority under the Trust Agreement to present certain resolved claims, Syria, though BP continues to supply aviation fuel to non-governmental including natural resource damages claims and state and local response Syrian resellers outside of Syria.
claims, to the Trust for payment, by providing the trustees with all the BP sells lubricants in Cuba through a 50:50 joint arrangement and trades required documents establishing that such claims are valid under the Trust Agreement.
However, any such payments can only be made on the in small quantities of lubricants.
In the first quarter of 2013, BP sold a small quantity of lubricants to a third-party drilling company for use in authority of the trustee and any funds distributed are paid directly to the claimants, not to BP.
The Trust Agreement is governed by the laws of the Myanmar.
BP has equity interests in non-operated joint arrangements with air fuel sellers, resellers, and fuel delivery services around the world.
From time Property, plant and equipment to time, the joint arrangement operator may sell or deliver fuel to airlines from Sanctioned Countries or flights to Sanctioned Countries without BP has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in numerous BPs knowledge or consent.
BP has registered and paid required fees for countries, but no individual property is significant to the group as a whole.
patents and trade marks in Sanctioned Countries.
For more on the significant subsidiaries of the group at 31 December 2013 and the group percentage of ordinary share capital see Financial Disclosure pursuant to Section 219 of ITRA statements Note 38.
For information on significant joint ventures and To our knowledge, none of BPs activities, transactions or dealings are associates of the group see Financial statements Notes 17 and 18. required to be disclosed pursuant to ITRA Section 219, with the following possible exception: Related-party transactions The Rhum field Rhum, located in the UK sector of the North Sea, is Transactions between the group and its significant joint ventures and operated by BP Exploration Operating Company Limited BPEOC, a associates are summarized in Financial statements Note 17 and Note non-US subsidiary of BP.
Rhum is owned under a 50:50 unincorporated 18.
In the ordinary course of its business, the group enters into joint arrangement between BPEOC and Iranian Oil Company U. K. transactions with various organizations with which some of its directors Limited IOC.
The Rhum joint arrangement was originally formed in or executive officers are associated.
Except as described in this report, 1974.
During the period of production from Rhum, the Rhum joint the group did not have material transactions or transactions of an unusual arrangement supplied natural gas and certain associated liquids to the nature with, and did not make loans to, related parties in the period UK.
On 16 November 2010, production from Rhum was suspended in commencing 1 January 2013 to 18 February 2014. response to relevant EU sanctions.
268 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
