84 a Executive directors 2013 annual report on remuneration 84 Total remuneration summary 86 Total remuneration in more depth including 2014 This section reports on the remuneration outcomes implementation of policy 86 Salary and benets for 2013 and is divided into separate sections for 86 Annual bonus executive and non-executive directors.
87 Deferred bonus 88 Performance shares The remuneration of the executive directors is set by 89 Pension 90 Remuneration committee the remuneration committee the committee under 91 Directors shareholdings delegated powers from the board.
The committee 92 Remuneration statistics and comparisons 93 Further details makes a recommendation to the board for the 95 b Non-executive directors remuneration of the chairman.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the board based on a recommendation from the chairman, the group chief executive and the company secretary.
a Executive directors t Deferred bonus the 2010 deferred bonus was contingent on safety Total remuneration summary and environmental sustainability performance over the period 2011 Strategy Key performance indicators Performance Pay through 2013.
Overall assessment was very positive based on The clear link from strategy through to pay continues.
For several years the continually improving safety and risk management performance and companys strategy has centred on enhancing safety and risk strong evidence of ingrained safety culture and systems throughout the management, rebuilding trust and restoring value.
Based on this, 2010 deferred and matched shares provided focus for key performance indicators KPIs and in turn the vested.
measures for annual bonus, deferred bonus and performance share plans.
t Performance shares the 2011-2013 plan was based 50% on total 2013 summary of outcomes shareholder return TSR and 20% on reserves replacement, both relative to the other oil majors, and reecting the key strategic focus on These are shown in the table opposite and represent the following: restoring value.
The final 30% was based on strategic imperatives made t Salary reviewed mid-year and increased just under 3% for all except up equally of safety and risk management, external reputation and staff Dr Byron Grote who retired mid-year.
alignment and morale all key strategic priorities in the period after the Deepwater Horizon incident in 2010.
39.5% of shares in the plan are t Annual bonus overall group bonus was based 30% on safety and expected to vest based on strong reserves replacement performance operational risk S&OR management and 70% on restoring value.
and good progress against all three strategic imperatives.
TSR S&OR results were good both in terms of improvement and overall performance did not achieve the minimum level required for any vesting.
Similarly, performance relative to value measures was overall better than the annual plan.
Overall group outcome was 1.32 times t Pension pension gures reect the UK requirements to show 20 target level.
times the increase in pension value for dened benefit schemes, as well as any cash paid in lieu.
In the case of Bob Dudleys reported gures, The resulting cash bonuses are shown in the table opposite with total this UK requirement overstates the increase in the actuarial value of his deferred bonuses reected in the Conditional equity table as required US pension by several million dollars.
Dr Byron Grote, given his retirement, was not eligible for any deferral, and his bonus prorated to reect his service was paid in cash.
84 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
