Additional disclosures b Expected payments include interest totalling $336 million $39 million in 2014, $35 million in 2015, $33 million in 2016, $30 million in 2017, $28 million in 2018 and $171 million thereafter.
Environmental liabilities include those relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, including liabilities for spill response costs.
d Represents the expected future contributions to funded pension plans and payments by the group for unfunded pension plans and the expected future payments for other post-retirement benefits.
e The future minimum lease payments are before deducting related rental income from operating sub-leases.
In the case of an operating lease entered into solely by BP as the operator of a joint operation, the amounts shown in the table represent the net future minimum lease payments, after deducting amounts reimbursed, or to be reimbursed, by joint operation partners.
Where BP is not the operator of a joint operation BPs share of the future minimum lease payments are included in the amounts shown, whether BP has co-signed the lease or not.
Where operating lease costs are incurred in relation to the hire of equipment used in connection with a capital project, some or all of the cost may be capitalized as part of the capital cost of the project.
f Represents any agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding and that specifies all significant terms.
The amounts shown include arrangements to secure long-term access to supplies of crude oil, natural gas, feedstocks and pipeline systems.
In addition, the amounts shown for 2014 include purchase commitments existing at 31 December 2013 entered into principally to meet the groups short-term manufacturing and marketing requirements.
The price risk associated with these crude oil, natural gas and power contracts is discussed in Financial statements Note 19.
The following table summarizes the nature of the groups unconditional purchase obligations.
You are urged to read the cautionary statement on page 271 and Risk factors on page 51, which describe the risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
beyond that term as long as there is production in paying quantities.
The Regulation of the groups business term of BPs licences and the extent to which these licences may be renewed vary from country to country.
BPs activities, including its oil and gas exploration and production, pipelines and transportation, refining and marketing, petrochemicals Frequently, BP conducts its exploration and production activities in joint production, trading, alternative energy and shipping activities, are arrangements or co-ownership arrangements with other international oil conducted in many different countries and are subject to a broad range companies, state-owned or controlled companies and or private of EU, US, international, regional and local legislation and regulations, companies.
These joint arrangements may be incorporated or including legislation that implements international conventions and unincorporated arrangements, while the co-ownerships are typically protocols.
These cover virtually all aspects of BPs activities and include unincorporated.
Whether incorporated or unincorporated, relevant matters such as licence acquisition, production rates, royalties, agreements set out each partys level of participation or ownership environmental, health and safety protection, fuel specifications and interest in the joint arrangement or co-ownership.
Conventionally, all transportation, trading, pricing, anti-trust, export, taxes and foreign costs, benefits, rights, obligations, liabilities and risks incurred in carrying exchange.
out joint-arrangement or co-ownership operations under a lease or licence are shared among the joint-arrangement or co-owning parties according to The terms and conditions of the leases, licences and contracts under these agreed ownership interests.
Ownership of joint-arrangement or which our oil and gas interests are held vary from country to country.
co-owned property and hydrocarbons to which the joint arrangement or These leases, licences and contracts are generally granted by or co-ownership is entitled is also shared in these proportions.
To the extent entered into with a government entity or state-owned or controlled that any liabilities arise, whether to governments or third parties, or as company and are sometimes entered into with private property owners.
between the joint arrangement parties or co-owners themselves, each Arrangements with governmental or state entities usually take the form joint arrangement party or co-owner will generally be liable to meet these of licences or production-sharing agreements PSAs, although in proportion to its ownership interest.
In many upstream operations, a arrangements with the US government can be by lease.
Arrangements party known as the operator will be appointed pursuant to a joint with private property owners are usually in the form of leases.
operating agreement JOA to carry out day-to-day operations on behalf of Licences or concessions give the holder the right to explore for and the joint arrangement or co-ownership.
The operator is typically one of the exploit a commercial discovery.
Under a licence, the holder bears the joint arrangement parties or a co-owner and will carry out its duties either risk of exploration, development and production activities and provides through its own staff, or by contracting out various elements to third-party the financing for these operations.
In principle, the licence holder is contractors or service providers.
BP acts as operator on behalf of joint entitled to all production, minus any royalties that are payable in kind.
A arrangements and co-ownerships in a number of countries where we licence holder is generally required to pay production taxes or royalties, have exploration and production activities.
which may be in cash or in kind.
Less typically, BP may explore for and Frequently, work including drilling and related activities will be contracted exploit hydrocarbons under a service agreement with the host entity in out to third-party service providers who have the relevant expertise and exchange for reimbursement of costs and or a fee paid in cash rather equipment not available within the joint arrangement or the co-owning than production.
The relevant contract will specify the work to be PSAs entered into with a government entity or state-owned or done and the remuneration to be paid and typically will set out how major controlled company generally require BP to provide all the financing and risks will be allocated between the joint arrangement or co-ownership and bear the risk of exploration and production activities in exchange for a the service provider.
Generally, the joint arrangement or co-owner and the share of the production remaining after royalties, if any.
contractor would respectively allocate responsibility for and provide reciprocal indemnities to each other for harm caused to their respective In certain countries, separate licences are required for exploration and production activities and, in certain cases, production licences are staff and property.
Depending on the service to be provided, an oil and gas industry service contract may also contain provisions allocating risks limited to only a portion of the area covered by the original exploration licence.
Both exploration and production licences are generally for a and liabilities associated with pollution and environmental damage, damage to a well or hydrocarbon reservoir and for claims from third specified period of time.
In the US, leases from the US government typically remain in effect for a specified term, but may be extended BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 253 parties or other losses.
The allocation of those risks vary among contracts with our operations and can require corrective action at locations and are determined through negotiation between the parties.
where such wastes have been disposed of or released.
The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and In general, BP is required to pay income tax on income generated from Liability Act CERCLA can, in certain circumstances, impose the entire production activities whether under a licence or PSAs.
In addition, cost of investigation and remediation on a party who owned or depending on the area, BPs production activities may be subject to a operated a site contaminated with a hazardous substance, or arranged range of other taxes, levies and assessments, including special for disposal of a hazardous substance at a site.
BP has incurred, or is petroleum taxes and revenue taxes.
The taxes imposed on oil and gas likely to incur, liability under the CERCLA or similar state laws, production profits and activities may be substantially higher than those including costs attributed to insolvent or unidentified parties.
BP is also imposed on other activities, for example in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Egypt, subject to claims for remediation costs under other federal and state Norway, the UK, the US, Russia and Trinidad & Tobago.
laws, and to claims for natural resource damages under the CERCLA, Environmental regulation the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90 discussed below and other federal and state laws.
CERCLA also requires hazardous substance BP has operations in around 80 countries and is subject to a wide variety of release notification.
environmental regulations concerning its products, operations and The Toxic Substances Control Act regulates BPs import, export and activities.
Current and proposed fuel and product specifications, emission sale of new chemical products.
controls, climate change programmes and regulation of unconventional gas The Occupational Safety and Health Act imposes workplace safety and extraction under a number of environmental laws may have a significant health requirements on BP operations along with significant process effect on the production, sale and profitability of many of BPs products.
There are also environmental laws that require BP to remediate and In May 2012, the US adopted the UN Global Harmonization System for restore areas affected by the release of hazardous substances or hazard classification and labelling of chemicals and products, with the hydrocarbons associated with our operations.
These laws may apply to modification of the Occupational Safety & Health Administration sites that BP currently owns or operates, sites that it previously owned or Hazard Communication Standard.
Manufacturers are required to operated, or sites used for the disposal of its and other parties waste.
reclassify both Substance and Mixture safety and data sheets SDS by Provisions for environmental restoration and remediation are made when 1 June 2015 and to have trained employees on the new label elements a clean-up is probable and the amount of BPs legal obligation can be pictograms and SDS format by 1 December 2013.
BP completed the reliably estimated.
The cost of future environmental remediation training for its employees by the 1 December 2013 deadline.
obligations is often inherently difficult to estimate.
The Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act requires emergency planning and hazardous substance release notification as Uncertainties can include the extent of contamination, the appropriate well as public disclosure of our chemical usage and emissions.
corrective actions, technological feasibility and BPs share of liability.
See The US Department of Transportation DOT regulates the transport of Financial statements Note 29 for the amounts provided in respect of BPs petroleum products such as crude oil, gasoline, petrochemicals environmental remediation and decommissioning.
A number of pending or anticipated governmental proceedings against The Maritime Transportation Security Act MTSA, the DOT Hazardous certain BP group companies under environmental laws could result in Materials HAZMAT and the Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standard monetary or other sanctions.
We are also subject to environmental CFATS regulations impose security compliance regulations on around claims for personal injury and property damage alleging the release of, or 50 BP facilities.
These regulations require security vulnerability exposure to, hazardous substances.
The costs associated with such assessments, security risk mitigation plans and security upgrades, future environmental remediation obligations, governmental proceedings increasing our cost of operations.
and claims could be significant and may be material to the results of OPA 90 is implemented through regulations issued by the US operations in the period in which they are recognized.
We cannot Environmental Protection Agency EPA, the US Coast Guard, the DOT, accurately predict the effects of future developments on the group, such the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Bureau of Safety as stricter environmental laws or enforcement policies, or future events and Environmental Enforcement and various states.
Alaska and the west at our facilities, and there can be no assurance that material liabilities and coast states currently have the most demanding state requirements.
costs will not be incurred in the future.
For a discussion of the groups environmental expenditure see page 252.
As a consequence of the Deepwater Horizon incident BP has become subject to claims under OPA 90 and other laws and has established a A significant proportion of our fixed assets are located in the US and the $20-billion trust fund for legitimate state and local government response EU.
US and EU environmental, health and safety regulations significantly claims, final judgments and settlement claims, legitimate state and local affect BPs exploration and production, refining and marketing, response costs, natural resource damages and related costs and legitimate transportation and shipping operations.
Significant legislation and individual and business claims see Gulf of Mexico oil spill on page 38.
BP regulation in the US and the EU affecting our businesses and profitability is also subject to natural resource damages claims, claims for civil penalties includes the following: under the Clean Water Act, and numerous civil lawsuits by individuals, United States businesses and governmental entities.
The ultimate costs for these claims The Clean Air Act CAA regulates air emissions, permitting, fuel cannot be determined at this time.
For further disclosures relating to the specifications and other aspects of our production, distribution and consequences of the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill, see Legal marketing activities.
Stricter limits on sulphur in fuels will affect us in proceedings on page 257. future, as will actions on greenhouse gas GHG emissions and other BP has also been in discussions with the EPA regarding alleged air pollutants.
Additionally, states may have separate, stricter air CAA violations at the Toledo refinery and the EPA has alleged certain emission laws in addition to the CAA.
CAA violations at the Cherry Point refinery and the Carson refinery which The Energy Policy Act of 2005 and the Energy Independence and BP sold to Tesoro Corporation on 1 June 2013.
Security Act of 2007 affect our US fuel markets by, among other European Union things, imposing renewable fuel mandates and imposing GHG emissions thresholds for certain renewable fuels.
States such as The 2008 EU Climate and Energy Package, includes the EU Emissions California also impose additional fuel carbon standards.
Trading System EU ETS Directive and the Renewable Energy The Clean Water Act regulates wastewater and other effluent Directive see Greenhouse gas regulation on page 44.
In January discharges from BPs facilities, and BP is required to obtain discharge 2014, the European Commission proposed a new Climate and Energy permits, install control equipment and implement operational controls Package for the period up to 2030.
Under the third trading period of the and preventative measures.
EU ETS Phase III which started on 1 January 2013, the EU ETS The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act regulates the generation, storage, transportation and disposal of wastes associated 254 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Additional disclosures has been expanded to include, among others, the petrochemical In addition, Europe has adopted the UN Global Harmonization System sector.
Installations in sectors at risk of carbon leakage i. e. for hazard classification and labelling of chemicals and products, which production transfers out of the EU ETS trading area are partially has been fully implemented in a number of countries outside the EU, compensated with free allocation of emission allowances based on through the Classification Labelling and Packaging CLP Regulation.
benchmarks used to calculate the number of free emissions per This requires BP to assess the hazards of all of our chemicals and installation.
There is no free allocation for electricity generation and products against new criteria and will result in significant changes to production installations: instead these allowances are auctioned off to warning labels and material safety data sheets.
All our European market participants.
Material Safety Data Sheets are being updated to include both REACH The Energy Efficiency Directive EED was adopted in 2012.
It requires and CLP information.
We have also notified the European Chemicals EU Member States to implement an indicative 2020 energy saving Agency of hazard classifications for our manufactured and imported target and apply a framework of measures as part of a national energy chemicals, for inclusion in a publicly available inventory of hazardous efficiency programme.
Such measures include mandatory industrial chemicals.
CLP will also apply to mixtures e. g. lubricants by 2015. energy efficiency surveys, to obtain data on both new plants and the Activities covered by both CLP and REACH are subject to enforcement replacement of large plants.
activity by national regulatory authorities.
Several BP entities were The Industrial Emissions Directive IED provides the framework for already subject to inspections.
All observations made were minor in granting permits for major industrial sites.
It imposes emission limit nature, and were readily rectified to the satisfaction of the authorities.
values, based on the use of Best Available Techniques BAT, for The EU Commission has issued the Offshore Safety Directive which is discharges to air and water.
The emission limit values are informed by now required to be transposed into national legislation by Member the sector specific and cross-sector BAT Reference Documents States, including the UK.
Its purpose is to introduce a harmonized BREFs, which are reviewed periodically.
The outcome of the review regime aimed at reducing the potential environmental, health and of several BREFs relevant to our major sites is expected in 2014.
The safety impacts of the offshore oil and gas industry throughout EU IED transposition and output from the BREF revisions may result in waters.
Implementation into UK legislation will involve alignment of the requirements for further emission reductions at our EU sites.
regime currently operating in the UK.
The European Commissions Air Policy Review and the related work on Environmental maritime regulations revisions to the Gothenburg Protocol and National Emissions Ceiling BPs shipping operations are subject to extensive national and Directive NECD may lead to national ceilings for emissions of a international regulations governing liability, operations, training, spill variety of air pollutants in order to achieve EU-wide health and prevention and insurance.
These include: environmental improvement targets.
Along with the proposed Directive on medium combustion plants, this may result in requirements for In US waters, OPA 90 imposes liability and spill prevention and further emission reductions at BPs EU sites.
planning requirements governing, among others, tankers, barges and The implementation of the Water Framework Directive and the offshore facilities.
It also mandates a levy on imported and Environmental Quality Directive may mean that BP has to take further domestically produced oil to fund oil spill responses.
Some states, steps to manage water discharges from its refineries and chemical including Alaska, Washington, Oregon and California, impose additional plants in the EU.
Outside US territorial waters, BP shipping tankers The EU regulation on ozone depleting substances ODS, which are subject to international liability, spill response and preparedness implements the Montreal Protocol Protocol on ODS requires BP to regulations under the UNs International Maritime Organization, reduce the use of ODS and phase out use of certain ODSs.
BP including the International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution, continues to replace ODS in refrigerants and or equipment, in the EU the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships and elsewhere, in accordance with the Protocol and related legislation.
MARPOL Convention, the International Convention on Oil Pollution, Methyl bromide an ODS is a minor by-product in the production of Preparedness, Response and Co-operation and the International purified terephthalic acid in our petrochemicals operations.
The Convention on Civil Liability for Bunker Oil Pollution Damage.
In April progressive phase-out of methyl bromide uses may result in future 2010, the Hazardous and Noxious Substance HNS Protocol 2010, was pressure to reduce our emissions of methyl bromide.
In addition, the adopted to address issues that have inhibited ratification of the impending adoption of a revised regulation to phase out the use of International Convention on Liability and Compensation for Damage in fluorinated gases, including hydrofluorocarbons HFCs may have an Connection with the Carriage of Hazardous and Noxious Substances by impact on some of BPs operations.
As at 9 January 2014, there were The EU Fuel Quality Directive affects our production and marketing of 14 contracting states to the HNS Convention but it had not yet entered transport fuels.
Revisions adopted in 2009 mandate reductions in the into force.
life cycle GHG emissions per unit of energy and tighter environmental In April 2008, the International Maritime Organization IMO approved fuel quality standards for petrol and diesel.
amendments to Annex VI of the MARPOL to reduce the sulphur The EU Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals content in marine fuels.
Since 1 January 2012 the global limit on REACH Regulation requires registration of chemical substances, sulphur content in marine fuels may not exceed 3.50%.
This global manufactured in, or imported into, the EU in quantities greater than limit will be further reduced to 0.5% in 2020, provided there is enough 1 tonne per annum per legal entity, together with the submission of fuel available.
Annex VI also provides for stricter sulphur emission relevant hazard and risk data.
REACH affects our refining, restrictions on ships in SOx Emission Control Areas SECAs.
EU ports petrochemicals, exploration and production, biofuels, lubricants and and inland waterways and the North Sea and Baltic Sea have been other manufacturing or trading import operations.
Having completed covered by SECAs since 2010 imposing a sulphur content limit of registration of all the substances that we were required to submit by 0.1%.
These restrictions require the use of compliant heavy fuel oil the regulatory deadlines of 1 December 2010 1,000 tonnes per HFO or distillate, or the installation of abatement technologies on annum legal entity and 31 May 2013 100-1,000 tonnes per annum ships.
These restrictions are expected to place additional costs on legal entity, we are now preparing registration dossiers for substances refineries producing marine fuel, including costs to dispose of sulphur, manufactured or imported in amounts in the range 1-100 tonnes per as well as increased GHG emissions and energy costs for additional annum legal entity that are due to be submitted before 31 May 2018. refining.
Some substances registered previously, including substances supplied To meet its financial responsibility requirements, BP shipping maintains to us by third parties for our use, are now subject to thorough marine liability pollution insurance in respect of its operated ships to a evaluation and or potential authorization restriction procedures by the maximum limit of $1 billion for each occurrence through mutual European Chemicals Agency and EU Member state authorities.
insurance associations P&I Clubs but there can be no assurance that a Legislation similar to REACH is in place in Turkey, which requires the spill will necessarily be adequately covered by insurance or that liabilities registration of manufactured and imported chemicals.
will not exceed insurance recoveries.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 255 uncertainty that exists in relation to the future of the Carbon Pricing Greenhouse gas regulation Mechanism provided for under the Clean Energy Act 2011.
BP Increasing concerns about climate change have led to a number of Australia continues to monitor this situation.
international climate agreements and negotiations continue on defining New Zealand has agreed to cut GHG emissions by at least 5% below the scope and nature of the commitments to be entered into by those 1990 levels by 2020, with additional reduction conditioned on a subject to the next phase of international climate change regulation.
comprehensive global agreement for emissions reductions coming into At the UN summit in Cancun in December 2010, the parties to the UN force.
New Zealands emission trading scheme NZ ETS commenced Framework Convention on Climate Change UNFCCC entered into a on 1 July 2010 for transport fuels, industrial processes and stationary formal agreement on a package of measures to 2020.
New Zealand also employs a portfolio of mandatory and Agreement seeks deep cuts in global greenhouse gas GHG emissions voluntary complementary measures aimed at GHG reductions.
New required to hold the increase in global temperature to below 2C.
Zealand made its recent commitments for GHG reduction under the Signatories formally committed to carbon reduction targets or actions by UN Framework Convention rather than the Kyoto Protocol.
Around 85 countries, including 69 developed economies the EU In the US, with the potential for passing comprehensive climate counted as 28 countries and 16 developing countries, have made such legislation remaining very unlikely, the US Environmental Protection commitments currently.
An additional 39 developing countries have Agency EPA continues to pursue regulatory measures to address submitted pledges related to sectoral goals.
Supporting those climate GHGs under the Clean Air Act CAA.
efforts, principles were agreed for monitoring, verifying and reporting In late 2009, the EPA released a GHG endangerment finding to emissions reductions: the Green Climate Fund was established to help establish its authority to regulate GHG emissions under the CAA.
developing countries limit and adapt to climate change: and measures Subsequent to this, the EPA finalized regulations imposing light were agreed to protect forests and transfer low-carbon technology to duty vehicle emissions standards for GHGs.
In November 2011, parties to the UNFCCC conference in The EPA finalized the initial GHG mandatory reporting rule Durban COP17 agreed to several measures.
One was a roadmap for GHGMRR in 2009 and continues to make amendments to the negotiating a legal framework for action on climate change by 2015 that rule.
Reports under the GHGMRR are due annually.
The majority would involve all countries by 2020 and would close the ambition gap between existing GHG reduction pledges and what is required to achieve of BPs US businesses are affected by the GHGMRR and the goal of limiting global temperature rise to 2C.
Another was a second submitted their GHG emissions reports to the EPA under the commitment period for the Kyoto Protocol, to begin immediately after the GHGMRR on or before the required deadlines.
In addition to direct first period.
An amendment was subsequently adopted at the 2012 emissions from affected facilities, producers and importers conference of parties COP18 in Doha establishing a second exporters of petroleum products, certain natural gas liquids and commitment period to run until the end of 2020.
However, it will not GHGs are required to report product volumes and notional GHG include the US, Canada, Japan and Russia and thus covers only about emissions as if these products were fully combusted.
The EPA 15% of global emissions.
The 2013 Warsaw meeting COP19 agreed to has released direct emissions data since 2011, and in 2013 continue these processes with a view to agreeing to post-2015 and postreleased aggregated site product emissions data.
confidential business information protections remain for both Aspects of these international concerns and agreements are reflected in direct and product emissions data reported.
national and regional measures seeking to limit GHG emissions.
The EPA finalized permitting requirements for new or modified Additional, more stringent, measures can be expected in the future.
large GHG emission sources in 2010, with initial regulations taking These measures could increase BPs production costs for certain effect in January 2011, the second phase taking effect on 1 July products, increase demand for competing energy alternatives or products 2011 and the third phase finalized on 29 June 2012. with lower-carbon intensity, and affect the sales and specifications of In a legal settlement with environmental advocacy groups, the EPA many of BPs products.
Current measures and developments potentially committed to propose a GHG New Source Performance Standards affecting BPs businesses include the following: NSPS for GHG emissions from refineries by December 2011 and The European Union EU has agreed to an overall GHG reduction to finalize the NSPS by November 2012.
These deadlines were not target of 20% by 2020.
To meet this, a Climate and Energy Package met and the new refinery NSPS deadlines were not proposed by of regulatory measures has been adopted including: national reduction the administration when the electric generating unit EGU GHG targets for emissions not covered by the EU ETS: binding national EGU NSPS deadlines were announced in a Climate Policy Directive renewable energy targets to double usage of renewable energy in June 2013. sources in the EU including at least a 10% share of renewable energy Legal challenges to the EPAs efforts to regulate GHG emissions in the transport sector: a legal framework to promote carbon capture through the CAA continue, including before the US Supreme Court and storage CCS : and a revised EU ETS Phase 3.
EU ETS revisions in the 2013-2014 term, along with active political debate with the include a GHG reduction of 21% from 2005 levels, a significant final content and scope of GHG regulation in the US remaining increase in allowance auctioning, an expansion in the scope of the EU uncertain.
ETS to encompass more industrial sectors and gases and no free allocation for electricity generation or production but benchmarked free A number of additional state and regional initiatives in the US will affect allocation for energy-intensive and trade-exposed industrial sectors.
Of particular significance, California implemented a lowFinally, EU energy efficiency policy is currently implemented via carbon fuel standard in 2010 and is seeking to reduce GHG emissions national energy efficiency action plans and the Energy Efficiency to 1990 levels by 2020 and to reduce the carbon intensity of transport Directive adopted in 2012.
The EU recently started discussions on a fuel sold in the state.
Legal challenges resulted in a pause for 2014 new framework for its energy and climate policies over the 2030 time carbon intensity targets at the 2013 level.
Whilst these legal challenges horizon which will succeed the current framework once adopted.
continue, the preliminary injunction stopping implementation was lifted Article 7a of the revised EU Fuel Quality Directive requires fuel and implementation of the programme continues.
The California cap suppliers to reduce the life cycle GHG emissions per unit of fuel and and trade programme started in January 2012 with the first auctions of energy supplied in certain transport markets.
carbon allowances held in November 2012 and obligations Australia has committed to reduce its GHG emissions by at least 5% commencing in 2013. below 2000 levels by 2020.
In accordance with the Clean Energy Act Canada has established an action plan to reduce emissions to 17% 2011, Australias carbon price took effect on 1 July 2012 with a fixed below 2005 levels by 2020 and the national government continues to price of $23 Australian dollars per tonne.
The fixed price phase is seek a co-ordinated approach with the US on environmental and energy scheduled to transition into a market-based price emissions trading objectives.
Additionally, Canadas highest emitting province, Alberta, has scheme by 1 July 2016.
BP refineries and its share of the North West been running a market mechanism to reduce GHG emissions since Shelf Project are covered entities within the Clean Energy Act 2011 2007.
Controversy, partially driven by perceived GHG intensity regarding and are liable for carbon dioxide-equivalent emissions.
With Australias Canadian oil sand produced crude, continues with some jurisdictions change of federal government in September 2013, there is significant contemplating policies to restrict or penalize the use of such crude.
256 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
