Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill Details of contingent liabilities related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill are set out in Note 2.
Contingent liabilities not related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill There were contingent liabilities at 31 December 2013 in respect of guarantees and indemnities entered into as part of the ordinary course of the groups business.
No material losses are likely to arise from such contingent liabilities.
Further information is included in Note 19.
Lawsuits arising out of the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound, Alaska, in March 1989 were filed against Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service Company Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the other oil companies that own Alyeska.
Alyeska initially responded to the spill until the response was taken over by Exxon.
BP owns a 46.9% interest reduced during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3.1% to Phillips in Alyeska through a subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briefly indirectly owned a further 20% interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with Atlantic Richfield Company Atlantic Richfield.
Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims against them under these lawsuits.
Exxon has indicated that it may file a claim for contribution against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and damages that Exxon has incurred.
BP will defend any such claims vigorously.
It is not possible to estimate any financial effect.
In the normal course of the groups business, legal proceedings are pending or may be brought against BP group entities arising out of current and past operations, including matters related to commercial disputes, product liability, antitrust, commodities trading, premises-liability claims, consumer protection, general environmental claims and allegations of exposures of third parties to toxic substances, such as lead pigment in paint, asbestos and other chemicals.
BP believes that the impact of these legal proceedings on the groups results of operations, liquidity or financial position will not be material.
With respect to lead pigment in paint in particular, Atlantic Richfield, a subsidiary of BP, has been named as a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought in the US alleging injury to persons and property.
Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of the legal proceedings, Atlantic Richfield believes it has valid defences that render the incurrence of a liability remote: however, the amounts claimed and the costs of implementing the remedies sought in the various cases could be substantial.
The majority of the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed against Atlantic Richfield.
No lawsuit against Atlantic Richfield has been settled nor has Atlantic Richfield been subject to a final adverse judgment in any proceeding.
Atlantic Richfield intends to defend such actions vigorously.
The group files tax returns in many jurisdictions throughout the world.
Various tax authorities are currently examining the groups tax returns.
Tax returns contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations and the resolution of tax positions through negotiations with relevant tax authorities, or through litigation, can take several years to complete.
While it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome in some cases, the group does not anticipate that there will be any material impact upon the groups results of operations, financial position or liquidity.
The group is subject to numerous national and local environmental laws and regulations concerning its products, operations and other activities.
These laws and regulations may require the group to take future action to remediate the effects on the environment of prior disposal or release of chemicals or petroleum substances by the group or other parties.
Such contingencies may exist for various sites including refineries, chemical plants, oil fields, service stations, terminals and waste disposal sites.
In addition, the group may have obligations relating to prior asset sales or closed facilities.
The ultimate requirement for remediation and its cost are inherently difficult to estimate.
However, the estimated cost of known environmental obligations has been provided in these accounts in accordance with the groups accounting policies.
While the amounts of future costs that are not provided for could be significant and could be material to the groups results of operations in the period in which they are recognized, it is not possible to estimate the amounts involved.
BP does not expect these costs to have a material effect on the groups financial position or liquidity.
The group also has obligations to decommission oil and natural gas production facilities and related pipelines.
Provision is made for the estimated costs of these activities, however there is uncertainty regarding both the amount and timing of these costs, given the long-term nature of these obligations.
BP believes that the impact of any reasonably foreseeable changes to these provisions on the groups results of operations, financial position or liquidity will not be material.
If oil and natural gas production facilities and pipelines are sold to third parties and the subsequent owner is unable to meet their decommissioning obligations, judgement must be used to determine whether BP is then responsible for decommissioning, and if so the extent of that responsibility.
The group generally restricts its purchase of insurance to situations where this is required for legal or contractual reasons.
This is because external insurance is not considered an economic means of financing losses for the group.
Losses will therefore be borne as they arise rather than being spread over time through insurance premiums with attendant transaction costs.
The position is reviewed periodically.
Capital commitments Authorized future capital expenditure for property, plant and equipment by group companies for which contracts had been signed at 31 December 2013 amounted to $13,705 million 2012 $14,894 million.
BPs share of capital commitments of joint ventures amounted to $317 million 2012 $293 million.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 191
