Corporate governance b Non-executive directors This section of the directors remuneration report describes the separate to 5 million if resolution 20 at the 2014 AGM is duly passed.. policies of the BP board for the remuneration of the chairman and the t NEDs should not receive share options, bonuses or retirement benets non-executive directors NEDs.
Key principles t NEDs are encouraged to establish a holding in BP shares of the The principles which underpin the boards policies for the remuneration of equivalent value of one years base fee.
the chairman and the NEDs are as follows: NEDs are supported through the company secretarys ofce.
This support t includes assistance with travel and transport, security advice when Remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain world-class non-executive talent.
t Remuneration practice should be consistent with recognized best NEDs have letters of appointment that recognize that, subject to the practice standards for chairman and NED remuneration.
Articles of Association, their service is at the discretion of shareholders.
All directors stand for re-election at each AGM.
t The aggregate annual remuneration payable to the chairman and NEDs is determined by shareholder resolution in accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
The aggregate limit will be increased Board remuneration policy for the chairman The chairman is non-executive and, in accordance with the Governance This policy reects the approach adopted by the board over the years and Code, independent on appointment.
The quantum and structure of the which has previously been described to shareholders.
chairmans remuneration is set by the board based upon a recommendation from the remuneration committee.
The chairman is not involved in setting his own remuneration.
Element and purpose Operation and opportunity Basic fee chairman Remuneration is in the form of cash fees, payable monthly.
The quantum and structure of chairmans remuneration is reviewed Remuneration practice is consistent with recognized best annually by the remuneration committee, which makes a practice standards for a chairmans remuneration and as a recommendation to the board.
UK-listed company, the quantum and structure of the chairmans remuneration will primarily be compared against best UK practice.
Benets and expenses The chairman is provided with an ofce and full time secretarial and The chairman is provided with support and reasonable administrative support in London and a contribution to an ofce and travelling expenses.
A chauffeured car is provided in London, together with security assistance.
All reasonable travelling and other expenses including any relevant tax incurred in carrying out his duties is reimbursed.
The maximum remuneration for non-executive directors is set in accordance with the Articles of Association.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 107 Board remuneration policy for non-executive directors Element Operation Basic fee The quantum and structure of NEDs remuneration is reviewed by the Remuneration is in the form of cash fees, payable monthly.
chairman, the group chief executive and the company secretary who Remuneration practice is consistent with recognized best make a recommendation to the board: the NEDs do not vote on their practice standards for non-executive directors remuneration own remuneration.
and as a UK-listed company, the quantum and structure of NED director remuneration will primarily be compared Remuneration for non-executive directors is reviewed annually.
Committee fees and allowances Intercontinental allowance The allowance will be paid in cash following each event of The NEDs receive an allowance to reect the global nature intercontinental travel.
The allowance is payable for transatlantic or equivalent intercontinental travel for the purpose of attending a board or committee meeting or site visits.
Committee chairmanship fee Those NEDs who chair a committee receive an additional fee.
The committee chairmanship fee reects the additional time and responsibility in chairing a committee of the board, including the time spent in preparation and liaising with management.
Committee membership fee Fees for committee chairmanship and membership are NEDs receive a fee for each committee on which they sit determined annually and paid in cash.
The committee membership fee reects the time spent in attending and preparation for a committee of the board.
The senior independent director SID The fee for the SID will be determined from time to time, In the light of the SIDs broader role and responsibilities, the SID is paid a single fee and is entitled to other fees relating and is paid in cash monthly.
to committees whether as chair or member.
Benets and expenses NEDs are reimbursed for all reasonable travelling and subsistence The NEDs are provided with support and reasonable expenses including any relevant tax incurred in carrying out their duties.
The reimbursement of professional fees incurred by non-executive Professional fees directors based outside the UK in connection with advice and assistance Fees will be reimbursed in the form of cash, payable on UK tax compliance matters.
This directors remuneration report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by David J Jackson, company secretary on 6 March 2014.
108 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
