Additional disclosures China has committed to reducing carbon intensity of GDP 40-45% that additional payments are due by BP under certain Master Vessel below 2005 levels by 2020 and increasing the share of non-fossil fuels Charter Agreements entered into in the course of the Vessels of in total energy consumption from 7.5% in 2005 to 15% by 2020.
The Opportunity Program implemented as part of the response to the countrys 12th 2011-2015 Development Programme has set the Incident.
Purported class action and individual lawsuits have also been target to reduce carbon intensity by 17% within five years, and this filed in US state and federal courts, as well as one suit in Canada, against national target has been deconstructed into provincial ones for local BP entities and or various current and former officers and directors actions.
Four emission trading pilots have begun in the cities of Beijing, alleging, among other things, shareholder derivative claims, securities Shenzhen and Shanghai and in Guangdong province.
Additional fraud claims, violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act emission trading schemes have been approved for Tianjin and ERISA and contractual and quasi-contractual claims related to the Chongqing cities as well as Hubei province.
As part of the countrys cancellation of the dividend on 16 June 2010. energy saving programme, the government also requires any operating In August 2010, many of the lawsuits pending in federal court were entity with annual energy consumption of 10 thousand tonnes of coal consolidated by the Federal Judicial Panel on Multi-district Litigation into equivalent 7ktoe a to have an energy saving target for the next five two multi-district litigation proceedings, one in federal district court in years.
A number of BP joint venture companies in China will be Houston for the securities, derivative and ERISA cases MDL 2185 and required to participate in these initiatives.
another in federal district court in New Orleans for the remaining cases For information on the steps that BP is taking in relation to climate MDL 2179. change issues and in relation to GHG regulation and for details of BPs Presentation of evidence in the first trial phase Phase 1 of a Trial of GHG reporting see Environment and society on page 45.
Liability, Limitation, Exoneration and Fault Allocation in MDL 2179 concluded on 17 April 2013, and the parties completed post-trial briefing Legal proceedings in respect of Phase 1 on 12 July 2013.
The second trial phase Phase 2, which addressed source control efforts and the amount of oil that was Proceedings relating to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill spilled into the Gulf as a result of the Incident, completed on 18 October 2013, and post-trial briefing in respect of Phase 2 is substantially BPs potential liabilities resulting from threatened, pending and potential complete.
In a further trial phase, which is yet to be scheduled, the future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions relating to the 20 April district court will determine the amount of civil penalties arising under the 2010 explosions and fire on the semi-submersible rig Deepwater Horizon Clean Water Act based on the courts rulings as to the presence of and resulting oil spill the Incident, together with the potential cost of negligence, gross negligence or wilful misconduct in Phases 1 and 2, the implementing remedies sought in the various proceedings, cannot be courts rulings as to quantification of discharge in Phase 2 and the fully estimated at this time but they have had and could continue to have application of the penalty factors under the Clean Water Act.
For further a material adverse impact on the groups business, competitive position, information, see MDL 2179 and related matters Trial phases below.
financial performance, cash flows, prospects, liquidity, shareholder returns and or implementation of its strategic agenda, particularly in the On 3 March 2012, BP announced an agreement in principle with the US.
The potential liabilities may continue to have a material adverse Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC in MDL 2179 to settle the effect on the groups results and financial condition.
See Financial substantial majority of legitimate private economic and property damages statements Note 2 to the financial statements for information regarding claims and exposure-based medical claims stemming from the Incident.
the financial impact of the Incident.
See MDL 2179 and related matters PSC settlements below.
BP p. l. c. BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP and various other BP On 1 June 2010, the US Department of Justice the DoJ announced that entities collectively referred to as BP are among the companies named it was conducting an investigation into the Incident encompassing as defendants in approximately 2,950 pending civil lawsuits relating to possible violations of US civil or criminal laws, and subsequently created the Incident and further actions are likely to be brought.
BPXP was lease a unified task force of federal agencies to investigate the Incident.
On operator of Mississippi Canyon, Block 252 in the Gulf of Mexico 15 November 2012, BP announced that it reached agreement with the Macondo, where the Deepwater Horizon was deployed at the time of US government, subject to court approval, to resolve all federal criminal the Incident.
The other working interest owners at the time of the charges and all claims by the US Securities and Exchange Commission Incident were Anadarko Petroleum Company Anadarko and MOEX the SEC against BP arising from the Deepwater Horizon accident, oil Offshore 2007 LLC MOEX.
The Deepwater Horizon, which was owned spill and response.
See Settlements with the DoJ and SEC below.
and operated by certain affiliates of Transocean Ltd. Transocean, sank on 22 April 2010.
The pending lawsuits and or claims arising from the MDL 2179 and related matters Incident have generally been brought in US federal and state courts.
The DoJ Action: liability limitation-, contributionand indemnity-related plaintiffs include individuals, corporations, insurers, and governmental proceedings: and Trial of Liability, Limitation, Exoneration and Fault entities and many of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The Allocation lawsuits assert, among others, claims under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 On 13 May 2010, Transocean and certain affiliates filed a complaint under OPA 90, claims for personal injury in connection with the Incident itself admiralty law in federal court in Texas seeking exoneration from or and the response to it, wrongful death, commercial and economic injury, limitation of liability as managing owners and operators of the Deepwater breach of contract and violations of statutes.
Many of the lawsuits assert Horizon.
That action the Limitation Action was consolidated with claims which are excluded from the Economic and Property Damages MDL 2179 on 24 August 2010.
Settlement Agreement discussed below, including claims for recovery The United States filed a civil complaint in MDL 2179 against BPXP and for losses allegedly resulting from the 2010 federal deepwater drilling others on 15 December 2010 the DoJ Action.
The complaint seeks a moratoria and or the related permitting process.
The lawsuits seek declaration of liability under OPA 90 and civil penalties under the Clean various remedies including compensation to injured workers, recovery for Water Act and sets forth a purported reservation of rights on behalf of commercial losses and property damage, compensation for personal the US to amend the complaint or file additional complaints seeking injuries and medical monitoring, claims for environmental damage, various remedies under various US federal laws and statutes.
See remediation costs, claims for unpaid wages, injunctive and declaratory Financial statements Note 2. relief, treble damages and punitive damages.
Purported classes of claimants include residents of the states of Louisiana, Mississippi, On 18 February 2011, Transocean filed a third-party complaint against BP, Alabama, Florida and Texas: property owners and rental agents, the US government, and other corporations involved in the Incident, fishermen and persons dependent on the fishing industry, charter boat naming those entities as formal parties in the Limitation Action.
On owners and deck hands, marina owners, gasoline distributors, shipping 20 April 2011, Transocean filed claims in the Limitation Action alleging interests, restaurant and hotel owners, cruise lines and others who are that BP had breached BP America Production Companys contract with property and or business owners alleged to have suffered economic loss: Transocean Holdings LLC by BP not agreeing to indemnify Transocean and response workers and residents claiming injuries due to exposure to against liability related to the Incident and by not paying certain invoices.
the components of oil and or chemical dispersants.
Among other claims Transocean also asserted claims against BP under state law, maritime arising from the spill response efforts, lawsuits have been filed claiming law, and OPA 90 for contribution.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 257
