Shareholder information A Scrip Dividend Programme Scrip was approved by shareholders in existing and proposed US Treasury regulations thereunder, published 2010 which enables BP ordinary shareholders and ADS holders to elect rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws of the UK, all as to receive dividends by way of new fully paid BP ordinary shares or currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention between the US ADSs in the case of ADS holders instead of cash.
The operation of the and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 the Treaty.
These Scrip is always subject to the directors decision to make the Scrip offer laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
This section is available in respect of any particular dividend.
Should the directors decide further based in part on the representations of the Depositary and not to offer the Scrip in respect of any particular dividend, cash will be assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related paid automatically instead.
agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention the Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on page 51 and other Estate Tax Convention and for US federal income tax and UK taxation purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the matters that may affect the business of the group set out in our strategy on page 13 and in Liquidity and capital resources on page 56. owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation company per ADS for the past five years.
other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
a Dividends per ADS March June September December Total Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US federal, 2009 UK pence 58.91 57.50 51.02 51.07 218.5 state and local, UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing US cents 84 84 84 84 336 of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, and in particular whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty in 2010 UK pence 52.07 52.07 respect of their investment in the shares or ADSs.
US cents 84 84 2011 UK pence 26.02 25.68 25.90 26.82 104.42 Taxation of dividends US cents 42 42 42 42 168 UK taxation 2012 UK pence 30.57 30.90 30.10 33.53 125.10 Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from US cents 48 48 48 54 198 dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
A 2013 UK pence 36.01 35.01 34.58 34.80 140.4 shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will not US cents 54 54 54 57 219 be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
A a Dividends announced and paid by the company on ordinary and preference shares are provided shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is in Financial statements Note 12. subject to UK tax but entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of the cash UK foreign exchange controls on dividends dividend.
There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on US federal income taxation remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross companys operations, other than restrictions applicable to certain amount of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or countries and persons subject to EU economic sanctions.
accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under the tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident or years beginning after 2012 that constitute qualified dividend income foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference shares in the will be taxable to the holder at a maximum rate of 20%, provided that the company other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the holder has a holding period in the ordinary shares or ADSs of more than shareholders and limitations applicable to certain countries and persons 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the exsubject to EU economic sanctions.
dividend date and meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by the company with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
Shareholder taxation information As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK withholding tax.
Accordingly, a US holder will include only the dividend taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder actually received from the company in gross income for US federal who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
income tax purposes, and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US It does not apply, however, interalia to members of special classes of holder to a foreign tax credit.
holders some of which may be subject to other rules, including: taxexempt entities, life insurance companies, dealers in securities, traders in For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in securities that elect a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the holdings, investors liable for alternative minimum tax, holders that, Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the companys voting stock, dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction holders that hold the shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received conversion transaction, holders that purchase or sell the shares or ADSs from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources as part of a wash sale for US federal income tax purposes, or holders outside the US and generally will be passive category income or, in the whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
In addition, if a case of certain US holders, general category income, each of which is partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treated separately for purposes of computing a US holders foreign tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner credit limitation.
and the tax treatment of the partnership and may not be described fully The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares that is paid below.
in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the pounds sterling A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US dollar rate US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, ii a US on the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, regardless of domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US whether the payment is, in fact, converted into US dollars.
Generally, any federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and period from the date the pounds sterling dividend payment is includible in one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be of the trust.
treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the preferential tax rate on qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss This section is based on the tax laws of the United States, including the generally will be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, tax credit limitation purposes.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 275 Distributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, as Additional tax considerations determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a Scrip Dividend Programme return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary The company has an optional Scrip Dividend Programme, wherein shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as holders of BP ordinary shares or ADSs may elect to receive any dividends described in Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation in the form of new fully paid ordinary shares or ADSs of the company section below.
Please consult your tax adviser for the consequences to In addition, the taxation of dividends may be subject to the rules for you.
passive foreign investment companies PFIC, described below under UK inheritance tax Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
Distributions The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax.
ADSs held by an made by a PFIC do not constitute qualified dividend income and are not individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention eligible for the preferential tax rate applicable to such income.
in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax Convention a national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance tax on the Taxation of capital gains individuals death or on transfer during the individuals lifetime unless, UK taxation among other things, the ADSs are part of the business property of a A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on permanent establishment situated in the UK used for the performance of the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is i a citizen of independent personal services.
In the exceptional case where ADSs are the US resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, ii a US domestic subject to both inheritance tax and US federal gift or estate tax, the corporation resident in the UK by reason of its business being managed Estate Tax Convention generally provides for tax payable in the US to be or controlled in the UK or iii a citizen of the US or a corporation that credited against tax payable in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be carries on a trade or profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or credited against tax payable in the US, based on priority rules set forth in agency or, in respect of corporations for accounting periods beginning on the Estate Tax Convention.
or after 1 January 2003, through a permanent establishment, and that has used, held, or acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs for the purposes of UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax such trade, profession or vocation of such branch, agency or permanent The statements below relate to what is understood to be the current establishment.
However, such persons may be entitled to a tax credit practice of HM Revenue & Customs in the UK under existing law.
against their US federal income tax liability for the amount of UK capital Provided that any instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains as the case may be remains at all times outside the UK and the transfer does not relate to that is paid in respect of such gain.
any matter or thing done or to be done in the UK, no UK stamp duty is Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares or ADSs payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs.
Neither will an agreement generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of residence of the to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs give rise to a liability to stamp duty relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the UK and the US reserve tax.
and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
Purchases of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, through the CREST Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK or the system of paperless share transfers will be subject to stamp duty reserve US and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or the tax at 0.5%.
The charge will arise as soon as there is an agreement for UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years immediately the transfer of the shares or, in the case of a conditional agreement, preceding the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs may be when the condition is fulfilled.
The stamp duty reserve tax will apply to subject to tax with respect to capital gains arising from a disposition of agreements to transfer ordinary shares even if the agreement is made ordinary shares or ADSs of the company not only in the jurisdiction of outside the UK between two non-residents.
Purchases of ordinary shares which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition but also in the outside the CREST system are subject either to stamp duty at a rate of other jurisdiction.
5 per 1,000 or part, unless the stamp duty is less than 5, when no stamp duty is charged, or stamp duty reserve tax at 0.5%.
Stamp duty US federal income taxation and stamp duty reserve tax are generally the liability of the purchaser.
A US holder who sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs A subsequent transfer of ordinary shares to the Depositarys nominee will recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes will give rise to further stamp duty at the rate of 1.50 per 100 or part equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount or stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 1.5% of the value of the ordinary realized on the disposition and the US holders tax basis, determined in shares at the time of the transfer.
For ADR holders electing to receive US dollars, in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Any such capital gain or loss ADSs instead of cash, after the 2012 first quarter dividend payment HM generally will be long-term gain or loss, subject to tax at a preferential Revenue & Customs no longer seeks to impose 1.5% stamp duty rate for a non-corporate US holder, if the US holders holding period for reserve tax on issues of UK shares and securities to non-EU clearance such ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
services and depositary receipt systems.
Gain or loss from the sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs US Medicare Tax will generally be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2012, a US holder that is tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject an individual or estate, or a trust that does not fall into a special class of to limitations.
trusts that is exempt from such tax, will be subject to an additional 3.8% We do not believe that ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as stock Medicare tax on the lesser of 1 the US holders net investment of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal income income for the relevant taxable year and 2 the excess of the US tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is made holders modified adjusted gross income for the taxable year over a annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated as a PFIC, unless certain threshold which in the case of individuals will be $125,000, a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-market basis with $200,000 or $250,000, depending on the individuals circumstances.
A respect to ordinary shares or ADSs, any gain realized on the sale or other US holders net investment income will generally include its dividend disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be treated as income and its net gains from the sale or other disposition of ordinary capital gain.
Instead, a US holder would be treated as if he or she had shares or ADSs.
If you are a US holder that is an individual, estate or realized such gain rateably over the holding period for ordinary shares or trust, you are urged to consult your tax adviser regarding the applicability ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax rate in effect for each such of the Medicare tax to your income and gains in respect of your year to which the gain was allocated, in addition to which an interest investment in ordinary shares or ADSs.
charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such year would apply.
Certain excess distributions would be similarly treated if we were treated as a PFIC.
276 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
