Additional disclosures Inventory holding gains and losses Exhibits Inventory holding gains and losses represent the difference between the The following documents are filed in the Securities and Exchange cost of sales calculated using the average cost to BP of supplies acquired Commission SEC EDGAR system, as part of this Annual Report on during the period and the cost of sales calculated on the first-in first-out Form 20-F, and can be viewed on the SECs website.
FIFO method after adjusting for any changes in provisions where the Exhibit 1 Memorandum and Articles of Association of BP net realizable value of the inventory is lower than its cost.
Under the FIFO p. l. c. method, which we use for IFRS reporting, the cost of inventory charged Exhibit 4.1 The BP Executive Directors Incentive Plan to the income statement is based on its historic cost of purchase, or Exhibit 4.2 Amended BP Deferred Annual Bonus Plan 2005 manufacture, rather than its replacement cost.
In volatile energy markets, Exhibit 4.3 Amended Directors Secondment Agreement for this can have a significant distorting effect on reported income.
The R W Dudley amounts disclosed represent the difference between the charge to the Exhibit 4.4 Amended Directors Service Contract and Secondment income statement for inventory on a FIFO basis after adjusting for any Agreement for R W Dudley related movements in net realizable value provisions and the charge that Exhibit 4.6 Directors Service Contract for I C Conn would have arisen if an average cost of supplies was used for the period.
Exhibit 4.7 Directors Service Contract for Dr B Gilvary For this purpose, the average cost of supplies during the period is Exhibit 7 Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges principally calculated on a monthly basis by dividing the total cost of inventory acquired in the period by the number of barrels acquired.
The Unaudited amounts disclosed are not separately reflected in the financial Exhibit 8 Subsidiaries included as Note 38 to the Financial statements as a gain or loss.
No adjustment is made in respect of the Statements cost of inventories held as part of a trading position and certain other Exhibit 10.1 Trust Agreement dated as of 6 August 2010 among BP temporary inventory positions.
Exploration & Production Inc. John S Martin, Jr and Kent D Syverud, as individual trustees, and Citigroup Management believes this information is useful to illustrate to investors TrustDelaware, N. A. as corporate trustee, as the fact that crude oil and product prices can vary significantly from amended by an Addendum, dated 6 August 2010 period to period and that the impact on our reported result under IFRS can be significant.
Inventory holding gains and losses vary from period to Exhibit 11 Code of Ethics period due principally to changes in oil prices as well as changes to Exhibit 12 Rule 13a 14 a Certifications underlying inventory levels.
In order for investors to understand the Exhibit 13 Rule 13a 14 b Certifications# operating performance of the group excluding the impact of oil price Exhibit 15.1 Consent of DeGolyer and MacNaughton changes on the replacement of inventories, and to make comparisons of Exhibit 15.2 Report of DeGolyer and MacNaughton operating performance between reporting periods, BPs management Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year believes it is helpful to disclose this information.
Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year Underlying replacement cost profit ended 31 December 2012.
Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year Underlying RC profit or loss is RC profit or loss after adjusting for nonended 31 December 2004. operating items and fair value accounting effects.
Underlying RC profit or Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year loss and fair value accounting effects are not recognized GAAP ended 31 December 2011. measures.
On pages 237 and 238 we provide additional information on Incorporated by reference to the companys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2009. the non-operating items and fair value accounting effects that are used to # Furnished only.
arrive at underlying RC profit or loss in order to enable a full Included only in the annual report filed in the Securities and Exchange Commission understanding of the events and their financial impact.
BP believes that underlying RC profit or loss before interest and taxation The total amount of long-term securities of the Registrant and its is a useful measure for investors because it is a measure closely tracked subsidiaries authorized under any one instrument does not exceed 10% by management to evaluate BPs operating performance and to make of the total assets of BP p. l. c. and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
financial, strategic and operating decisions and because it may help The company agrees to furnish copies of any or all such instruments to investors to understand and evaluate, in the same manner as the SEC on request.
management, the underlying trends in BPs operational performance on a comparable basis, year on year, by adjusting for the effects of these nonCertain definitions operating items and fair value accounting effects.
The nearest equivalent measure on an IFRS basis for the group is profit or loss for the year Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following terms have the attributable to BP shareholders.
The nearest equivalent measure on an meaning provided below: IFRS basis for segments is RC profit or loss before interest and taxation.
Replacement cost profit Non-GAAP information on fair value accounting effects Replacement cost RC profit or loss reflects the replacement cost of BP uses derivative instruments to manage the economic exposure supplies and is arrived at by excluding inventory holding gains and losses relating to inventories above normal operating requirements of crude oil, from profit or loss.
IFRS requires that the measure of profit or loss natural gas and petroleum products.
Under IFRS, these inventories are disclosed for each operating segment is the measure that is provided recorded at historic cost.
The related derivative instruments, however, regularly to the chief operating decision maker for the purposes of are required to be recorded at fair value with gains and losses recognized performance assessment and resource allocation.
For BP, both RC profit in income because hedge accounting is either not permitted or not or loss before interest and tax and underlying RC profit or loss before followed, principally due to the impracticality of effectiveness testing interest and tax are provided regularly to the chief operating decision requirements.
Therefore, measurement differences in relation to maker.
In such cases IFRS requires that the measure of profit disclosed recognition of gains and losses occur.
Gains and losses on these for each operating segment is the measure that is closest to IFRS, which inventories are not recognized until the commodity is sold in a for BP is RC profit or loss before interest and tax.
RC profit or loss for the subsequent accounting period.
Gains and losses on the related derivative group is not a recognized GAAP measure.
The nearest equivalent GAAP commodity contracts are recognized in the income statement from the measure is profit or loss for the year attributable to BP shareholders.
BP time the derivative commodity contract is entered into on a fair value believes that replacement cost profit before interest and taxation for the basis using forward prices consistent with the contract maturity.
group is a useful measure for investors because it is a profitability BP enters into commodity contracts to meet certain business measure used by management.
A reconciliation is provided between the requirements, such as the purchase of crude for a refinery or the sale of total of the operating segments measures of profit or loss and the group BPs gas production.
Under IFRS these contracts are treated as profit or loss before taxation, as required under IFRS.
See Financial derivatives and are required to be fair valued when they are managed as statements Note 7.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 269 part of a larger portfolio of similar transactions.
Gains and losses arising under the contracts in cash rather than through physical delivery.
are recognized in the income statement from the time the derivative Additionally, the BFO contract specifies a standard volume and tolerance commodity contract is entered into.
given that the physically settled transactions are delivered by cargo.
IFRS requires that inventory held for trading be recorded at its fair value Gas and power OTC markets are highly developed in North America and using period-end spot prices whereas any related derivative commodity the UK, where the commodities can be bought and sold for delivery in instruments are required to be recorded at values based on forward future periods.
These contracts are negotiated between two parties to prices consistent with the contract maturity.
Depending on market purchase and sell gas and power at a specified price, with delivery and conditions, these forward prices can be either higher or lower than spot settlement at a future date.
Typically, these contracts specify delivery prices resulting in measurement differences.
terms for the underlying commodity.
Certain of these transactions are not settled physically, which can be achieved by transacting offsetting sale or BP enters into contracts for pipelines and storage capacity, oil and gas purchase contracts for the same location and delivery period that are processing and liquefied natural gas LNG that, under IFRS, are recorded offset during the scheduling of delivery or dispatch.
The contracts contain on an accruals basis.
These contracts are risk-managed using a variety of standard terms such as delivery point, pricing mechanism, settlement derivative instruments, which are fair valued under IFRS.
This results in terms and specification of the commodity.
Typically, volume, price and measurement differences in relation to recognition of gains and losses.
term e. g. daily, monthly and balance of month are the main variable The way that BP manages the economic exposures described above, and contract terms.
measures performance internally, differs from the way these activities Swaps are often contractual obligations to exchange cash flows between are measured under IFRS.
BP calculates this difference for consolidated two parties: a typical swap transaction usually references a floating price entities by comparing the IFRS result with managements internal and a fixed price with the net difference of the cash flows being settled.
Under managements internal measure of Options give the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell performance the inventory and capacity contracts in question are valued crude, oil products, natural gas or power at a specified price on or before based on fair value using relevant forward prices prevailing at the end of a specific future date.
Amounts under these derivative financial the period, the fair values of certain derivative instruments used to risk instruments are settled at expiry.
Typically, netting agreements are used manage LNG and oil and gas processing contracts are deferred to match to limit credit exposure and support liquidity.
with the underlying exposure and the commodity contracts for business requirements are accounted for on an accruals basis.
We believe that Spot and term contracts disclosing managements estimate of this difference provides useful Spot contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at the information for investors because it enables investors to see the market price prevailing on or around the delivery date when title to the economic effect of these activities as a whole.
Term contracts are contracts to purchase or sell a commodity at regular intervals over an agreed term.
Though spot and Commodity trading contracts term contracts may have a standard form, there is no offsetting BPs Upstream and Downstream segments both participate in regional mechanism in place.
These transactions result in physical delivery with and global commodity trading markets in order to manage, transact and operational and price risk.
Spot and term contracts typically relate to hedge the crude oil, refined products and natural gas that the group purchases of crude for a refinery, purchases of products for marketing, either produces or consumes in its manufacturing operations.
These purchases of third-party natural gas, sales of the groups oil production, physical trading activities, together with associated incremental trading sales of the groups oil products and sales of the groups gas production opportunities, are discussed further in Upstream on page 25 and in to third parties.
For accounting purposes, spot and term sales are Downstream on page 31.
The range of contracts the group enters into in included in sales and other operating revenues, when title passes.
its commodity trading operations is described below.
Using these Similarly, spot and term purchases are included in purchases for contracts, in combination with rights to access storage and transportation accounting purposes.
capacity, allows the group to access advantageous pricing differences between locations, time periods and arbitrage between markets.
Associate Exchange-traded commodity derivatives An entity, including an unincorporated entity such as a partnership, over which the group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary These contracts are typically in the form of futures and options traded on nor a joint arrangement of the group.
Significant influence is the power to a recognized exchange, such as Nymex, SGX and ICE.
Such contracts are participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee traded in standard specifications for the main marker crude oils, such as but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Brent and West Texas Intermediate, the main product grades, such as gasoline and gasoil, and for natural gas and power.
Gains and losses, Joint arrangement otherwise referred to as variation margins, are settled on a daily basis A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have with the relevant exchange.
These contracts are used for the trading and joint control.
risk management of crude oil, refined products, natural gas and power.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on exchange-traded commodity Joint control derivatives are included in sales and other operating revenues for Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an accounting purposes.
arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Over-the-counter contracts These contracts are typically in the form of forwards, swaps and options.
Joint operation Some of these contracts are traded bilaterally between counterparties or A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have through brokers: others may be cleared by a central clearing joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations counterparty.
These contracts can be used both for trading and risk for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses on overthe-counter OTC contracts are included in sales and other operating Joint venture revenues for accounting purposes.
Many grades of crude oil bought and A joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the sold use standard contracts including US domestic light sweet crude oil, arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
commonly referred to as West Texas Intermediate, and a standard North Sea crude blend Brent, Forties and Oseberg or BFO.
Forward contracts Subsidiary are used in connection with the purchase of crude oil supplies for An entity that is controlled by the BP group.
Control of an investee exists refineries, purchases of products for marketing, sales of the groups oil when an investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its production and refined product.
The contracts typically contain standard involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns delivery and settlement terms.
These transactions call for physical through its power over the investee.
delivery of oil with consequent operational and price risk.
However, various means exist, and are from time to time used, to settle obligations 270 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
