Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and affiliated purchasers On 22 March 2013 BP announced the start of a share repurchase, or buyback, programme the buyback programme.
The buyback programme is expected to return up to $8 billion to BP shareholders.
As at 18 February 2014 the total number of ordinary shares repurchased under the buyback programme since 22 March 2013 was 947,930,354 at a cost of $7,065 million including transaction costs.
The following table provides details of this share repurchase activity under the buyback programme as well as details of ordinary share purchases made by the Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs and other purchases of ordinary shares and ADSs made to satisfy the requirements of certain employee share-based payment plans.
b Transactions represent the purchase of ordinary shares by ESOPs and other purchases of ordinary shares and ADSs made to satisfy requirements of certain employee share-based payment plans.
c At the AGMs on 12 April 2012 and 11 April 2013, authorization was given in each case to repurchase up to 1.9 billion ordinary shares in the period to the next AGM in 2013 and 2014, respectively or 12 July 2013 and 11 July 2014, respectively, being the latest dates by which an AGM must be held for the relevant year.
This authorization is renewed annually at the AGM.
All shares were purchased for cancellation to reduce BPs issued share capital.
The total number of ordinary shares purchased during 2013 under the buyback programme was 752,853,809 at a cost of $5,493 million including transaction costs representing 4.04% of BPs issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury on 31 December 2013.
Fees and charges payable by ADSs holders The Depositary collects fees for delivery and surrender of ADSs directly from investors depositing shares or surrendering ADSs for the purpose of withdrawal or from intermediaries acting for them.
The Depositary collects fees for making distributions to investors by deducting those fees from the amounts distributed or by selling a portion of the distributable property to pay the fees.
The charges of the Depositary payable by investors are as follows: Type of service Depositary actions Fee Depositing or substituting the underlying Issuance of ADSs against the deposit of shares, including $5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion shares deposits and issuances in respect of: thereof evidenced by the new ADSs Share distributions, stock splits, rights, merger.
Exchange of securities or other transactions or event or other distribution affecting the ADSs or deposited securities.
Selling or exercising rights Distribution or sale of securities, the fee being in an amount $5.00 per 100 ADSs or portion equal to the fee for the execution and delivery of ADSs that thereof.
would have been charged as a result of the deposit of such securities.
Withdrawing an underlying share Acceptance of ADSs surrendered for withdrawal of deposited $5.00 for each 100 ADSs or portion securities.
thereof evidenced by the ADSs surrendered.
Expenses of the Depositary Expenses incurred on behalf of holders in connection with: Expenses payable at the sole Stock transfer or other taxes and governmental charges.
discretion of the Depositary by billing Cable, telex, electronic and facsimile transmission, delivery.
holders or by deducting charges from Transfer or registration fees, if applicable, for the one or more cash dividends or other registration of transfers of underlying shares.
Expenses of the Depositary in connection with the conversion of foreign currency into US dollars which are paid out of such foreign currency.
278 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
