Notes on financial statements Changes to the 2013 financial statements BP aims for the highest standard of financial reporting and supports the initiatives of the UK Financial Reporting Council and the US Securities and Exchange Commission to improve understandability and transparency by cutting immaterial clutter from financial statements.
We continually review the structure and content of our financial reports.
For the 2013 financial statements, to increase their understandability and navigability, we have changed the grouping of certain notes, and have also sought to remove immaterial disclosures.
In applying materiality to the financial statement disclosures, we consider both the amount and the nature of each item.
The main changes compared with the financial statements included in the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2012 are as follows: Note 1 Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions this note includes the critical accounting estimates and judgements in boxed text following the relevant accounting policy.
Last year this information was shown under Critical accounting policies in the Additional disclosures section of the Directors Report.
Note 2 Significant event Gulf of Mexico oil spill now contains all of our financial statement note disclosures in respect of the 2010 oil spill.
Last year we also included information in the Provisions and Contingent liabilities notes to the financial statements.
Note 7 Segmental analysis now includes analysis of depreciation, depletion and amortization and production and similar taxes, previously provided in separate notes.
Note 8 Income statement analysis now combines a number of notes previously provided separately, simplifying the presentation while retaining materially the same content.
Note 15 Goodwill and impairment review of goodwill now contains the disclosures related to impairment testing of goodwill, which were provided in a separate note last year.
Note 19 Financial instruments and financial risk factors and Note 26 Derivative financial instruments have been rationalized to focus only on the material matters.
Note 38 Subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates now lists only the most significant entities.
A separate share-based payment note is no longer presented.
The share-based payment expense for the year is included in Note 33 Employee costs and numbers and information on the dilutive impact of employee share plans is included in Note 13 Earnings per ordinary share.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions Authorization of financial statements and statement of compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards The consolidated financial statements of the BP group for the year ended 31 December 2013 were approved and signed by the group chief executive and chairman on 6 March 2014 having been duly authorized to do so by the board of directors.
BP p. l. c. is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006.
IFRS as adopted by the EU differs in certain respects from IFRS as issued by the IASB, however, the differences have no impact on the groups consolidated financial statements for the years presented.
The significant accounting policies and critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions of the group are set out below.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations issued and effective for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The standards and interpretations adopted in the year, and the corresponding impact on the financial statements, are described further on page 137.
The accounting policies that follow have been consistently applied to all years presented.
Where retrospective restatements were required as a result of the implementation of new accounting standards or changes to existing accounting standards, these have been applied to all comparative years presented.
Subsequent to releasing our unaudited fourth quarter and full year 2013 results announcement dated 4 February 2014, a minor amendment has been made to the split of the Upstream replacement cost profit before interest and tax between US and non-US.
The amount reported for US for the year has been reduced by $0.2 billion to $3.1 billion and the amount reported for non-US has been increased by $0.2 billion to $28.9 billion.
Similarly, amendments have also been made to the geographical analysis for revenues and capital expenditure and acquisitions.
There was no impact on the groups profit or loss, net assets or cash flows for the year.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars and all values are rounded to the nearest million dollars $ million, except where otherwise indicated.
Critical accounting policies: use of judgements, estimates and assumptions Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies used in preparing the financial statements is the need for BP management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
Actual outcomes could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
The critical accounting judgements and estimates that could have a significant impact on the results of the group are set out in boxed text below, and should be read in conjunction with the information provided in the Notes on financial statements.
The areas requiring the most significant judgement and estimation in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are in relation to acquisitions of interests in other entities, oil and natural gas accounting, including the estimation of reserves, the recoverability of asset carrying values, derivative financial instruments, including the application of hedge accounting, provisions and contingencies, in particular provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, pensions and other post-retirement benefits and taxation.
Basis of consolidation The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of BP p. l. c. and the entities it controls its subsidiaries drawn up to 31 December each year.
Control of an investee exists when the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
To have power over an investee, the investor must have existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company, using consistent accounting policies.
Intercompany balances and transactions, including unrealized profits arising from intragroup transactions, have been eliminated.
Unrealized losses are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable, directly or indirectly, to the group.
126 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Interests in other entities Business combinations and goodwill A business combination is a transaction or other event in which an acquirer obtains control of one or more businesses.
A business is an integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return in the form of dividends or lower costs or other economic benefits directly to investors or other owners or participants.
A business consists of inputs and processes applied to those inputs that have the ability to create outputs.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisitiondate fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
Non-controlling interests are stated either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed and included in distribution and administration expenses.
Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred, the amount recognized for any non-controlling interest and the acquisition-date fair values of any previously held interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
At the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to each of the cash-generating units, or groups of cash-generating units, expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill relates should be assessed.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized.
An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill arising on business combinations prior to 1 January 2003 is stated at the previous carrying amount, less subsequent impairments, under UK generally accepted accounting practice.
Goodwill may also arise upon investments in joint ventures and associates, being the surplus of the cost of investment over the groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities.
Such goodwill is recorded within the corresponding investment in joint ventures and associates, and any impairment of the investment is included within the groups share of earnings from joint ventures and associates.
Interests in joint arrangements A joint arrangement is an arrangement of which two or more parties have joint control.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
The results, assets and liabilities of a joint venture are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting as described below.
Certain of the groups activities, particularly in the Upstream segment, are conducted through joint operations, which are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
BP recognizes, on a line-by-line basis in the consolidated financial statements, its share of the assets, liabilities and expenses of these joint operations incurred jointly with the other partners, along with the groups income from the sale of its share of the output and any liabilities and expenses that the group has incurred in relation to the joint operation.
Interests in associates An associate is an entity over which the group has significant influence, through the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but which is not a subsidiary or a joint arrangement.
The results, assets and liabilities of an associate are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting as described below.
Significant estimate or judgement Judgement is required in assessing the level of control obtained in a transaction to acquire an interest in another entity: depending upon the facts and circumstances in each case, BP may obtain control, joint control or significant influence over the entity or arrangement.
Transactions which give BP control of a business are business combinations.
If BP obtains joint control of an arrangement, judgement is also required to assess whether the arrangement is a joint operation or a joint venture.
If BP has neither control nor joint control, it may be in a position to exercise significant influence over the entity, which is then accounted for as an associate.
Accounting for business combinations and acquisitions of investments in equity-accounted joint ventures and associates requires judgements and estimates to be made in order to determine the fair value of the consideration transferred, together with the fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in a business combination, or the identifiable assets and liabilities of the equity-accounted entity at the acquisition date.
The group uses all available information, including external valuations and appraisals where appropriate, to determine these fair values.
If necessary, the group has up to one year from the acquisition date to finalize the determinations of fair value for business combinations.
At 31 December 2013, and since the transaction described in Note 6 concluded on 21 March 2013, BP owned 19.75% of the voting shares of OJSC Oil Company Rosneft Rosneft, a Russian oil and gas company.
The Russian federal government, through its investment company OJSC Rosneftegaz, owned 69.5% of the voting shares of Rosneft at 31 December 2013.
BP uses the equity method of accounting for its investment in Rosneft because under IFRS it is considered to have significant influence.
Significant influence is defined as the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control.
IFRS identifies several indicators that may provide evidence of significant influence, including representation on the board of directors of the investee and participation in policy-making processes.
BPs group chief executive, Bob Dudley, has been elected to the board of directors of Rosneft, he is a member of the Rosneft boards Strategic Planning Committee and he participated in Rosnefts steering committee to integrate TNK-BP.
Furthermore, under the Rosneft Charter BP has the right to nominate a second director to Rosnefts nine-person board of directors for election at a general meeting of shareholders should it choose to do so in the future.
In addition, BP holds the voting rights at general meetings of shareholders conferred by its 19.75% stake in Rosneft.
In managements judgement, the group has significant influence over Rosneft, as defined by the relevant accounting standard, and the investment is therefore accounted for as an associate.
BPs share of Rosnefts oil and natural gas reserves is included in the estimated net proved reserves of equity-accounted entities.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 127 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued The equity method of accounting Under the equity method, the investment in an equity-accounted entity joint venture or associate is carried on the balance sheet at cost plus postacquisition changes in the groups share of net assets of the equity-accounted entity, less distributions received and less any impairment in value ofthe investment.
Loans advanced to equity-accounted entities that have the characteristics of equity financing are also included in the investment on the group balance sheet.
The group income statement reflects the groups share of the results after tax of the equity-accounted entity, adjusted to account for depreciation, amortization and any impairment of the equity-accounted entitys assets based on their fair values at the date of acquisition.
The group statement of comprehensive income includes the groups share of the equity-accounted entitys other comprehensive income.
The groups share of amounts recognized directly in equity by an equity-accounted entity is recognized directly in the groups statement of changes in equity.
Financial statements of equity-accounted entities are prepared for the same reporting year as the group.
Where material differences arise, adjustments are made to those financial statements to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the group.
Unrealized gains on transactions between the group and its equity-accounted entities are eliminated to the extent of the groups interest in the equityaccounted entity.
Unrealized losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The group assesses investments in equity-accounted entities for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the investment is compared with its recoverable amount, being the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Where the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount, the investment is written down to its recoverable amount.
The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting on the date from which it no longer has joint control over the joint venture or significant influence over the associate, or when the interest becomes classified as an asset held for sale.
Segmental reporting The groups operating segments are established on the basis of those components of the group that are evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
On 22 October 2012, BP announced that it had signed heads of terms for a proposed transaction to sell its 50% share in TNK-BP to Rosneft.
Following this agreement, BPs investment in TNK-BP met the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
On 21 March 2013, the disposal of BPs investment in TNK-BP completed and BP increased its investment in Rosneft.
See Note 6 for further information.
BPs investment in Rosneft is reported as a separate operating segment since that date, reflecting the way in which the investment is managed.
A separate organization within the group deals with the ongoing response to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
This organization reports directly to the group chief executive and its costs are excluded from the results of the operating segments.
Under IFRS its costs are presented as a reconciling item between the sum of the results of the reportable segments and the group results.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as the groups accounting policies described in this note, except that IFRS requires that the measure of profit or loss disclosed for each operating segment is the measure that is provided regularly to the chief operating decision maker.
For BP, this measure of profit or loss is replacement cost profit before interest and tax which reflects the replacement cost of supplies by excluding from profit inventory holding gains and losses.
Replacement cost profit for the group is not a recognized measure under IFRS.
For further information see Note 7.
Foreign currency translation The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which an entity operates and is normally the currency in which the entity primarily generates and expends cash.
In individual subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in the functional currency by applying the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the functional currency at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any resulting exchange differences are included in the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities, other than those measured at fair value, are not retranslated subsequent to initial recognition.
In the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, including related goodwill, are translated into US dollars at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
The results and cash flows of non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into US dollars using average rates of exchange.
Exchange adjustments arising when the opening net assets and the profits for the year retained by non-US dollar functional currency subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are translated into US dollars are taken to a separate component of equity and reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
Exchange gains and losses arising on long-term intragroup foreign currency borrowings used to finance the groups non-US dollar investments are also taken to other comprehensive income.
On disposal or partial disposal of a non-US dollar functional currency subsidiary, joint venture or associate, the deferred cumulative amount of exchange gains and losses recognized in equity relating to that particular non-US dollar operation is reclassified to the income statement.
Non-current assets held for sale Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification as held for sale.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not depreciated once classified as held for sale.
The group ceases to use the equity method of accounting from the date on which an interest in a joint venture or associate becomes held for sale.
If a non-current asset or disposal group has been classified as held for sale, but subsequently ceases to meet the criteria to be classified as held for sale, the group ceases to classify the asset or disposal group as held for sale.
Non-current assets and disposal groups that cease to be classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying amount before the asset or disposal group was classified as held for sale adjusted for any depreciation, amortization or revaluation that would have been recognized had the asset or disposal group not been classified as held for sale and its recoverable amount at the date of the subsequent decision not to sell.
Except for any interests in equity-accounted entities that cease to be classified as held for sale, any adjustment to the carrying amount is recognized in profit or loss in the period in which the asset ceases to be classified as held for sale.
When an interest in an equity-accounted entity ceases to be classified as held for sale, it is accounted for using the equity method as from the date of its classification as held for sale and the financial statements for the periods since classification as held for sale are amended accordingly.
128 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Intangible assets Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include expenditure on the exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources, computer software, patents, licences and trademarks and are stated at the amount initially recognized, less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses.
For information on accounting for expenditures on the exploration for and evaluation of oil and natural gas resources, see the accounting policy for oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure below.
Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried initially at cost.
The initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value ofany other consideration given to acquire the asset.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business combination is measured at fair value at the date of acquisition and is recognized separately from goodwill if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortized on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives.
For patents, licences and trademarks, expected useful life is the shorter of the duration of the legal agreement and economic useful life, and can range from three to 15 years.
Computer software costs generally have a useful life of three to five years.
The expected useful lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure Oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure is accounted for using the principles of the successful efforts method of accounting.
Licence and property acquisition costs Exploration licence and leasehold property acquisition costs are capitalized within intangible assets and are reviewed at each reporting date to confirm that there is no indication that the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount.
This review includes confirming that exploration drilling is still under way or firmly planned or that it has been determined, or work is under way to determine, that the discovery is economically viable based on a range of technical and commercial considerations and sufficient progress is being made on establishing development plans and timing.
If no future activity is planned, the remaining balance of the licence and property acquisition costs is written off.
Lower value licences are pooled and amortizedon a straight-line basis over the estimated period of exploration.
Upon recognition of proved reserves and internal approval for development, the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
Exploration and appraisal expenditure Geological and geophysical exploration costs are charged against income as incurred.
Costs directly associated with an exploration well are initially capitalized as an intangible asset until the drilling of the well is complete and the results have been evaluated.
These costs include employee remuneration, materials and fuel used, rig costs and payments made to contractors.
If potentially commercial quantities of hydrocarbons are not found, the exploration well is written off as a dry hole.
If hydrocarbons are found and, subject to further appraisal activity, are likely to be capable of commercial development, the costs continue to be carried as an asset.
Costs directly associated with appraisal activity, undertaken to determine the size, characteristics and commercial potential of a reservoir following the initial discovery of hydrocarbons, including the costs of appraisal wells where hydrocarbons were not found, are initially capitalized as an intangible asset.
When proved reserves of oil and natural gas are determined and development is approved by management, the relevant expenditure is transferred to property, plant and equipment.
Development expenditure Expenditure on the construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities such as platforms, pipelines and the drilling of development wells, including service and unsuccessful development or delineation wells, is capitalized within property, plant and equipment and is depreciated from the commencement of production as described below in the accounting policy for property, plant and equipment.
Significant estimate or judgement The determination of whether potentially economic oil and natural gas reserves have been discovered by an exploration well is usually made within one year after well completion, but can take longer, depending on the complexity of the geological structure.
Exploration wells that discover potentially economic quantities of oil and natural gas and are in areas where major capital expenditure e. g. offshore platform or a pipeline would be required before production could begin, and where the economic viability of that major capital expenditure depends on the successful completion of further exploration work in the area, remain capitalized on the balance sheet as long as additional exploration appraisal work is under way or firmly planned.
It is not unusual to have exploration wells and exploratory-type stratigraphic test wells remaining suspended on the balance sheet for several years while additional appraisal drilling and seismic work on the potential oil and natural gas field is performed or while the optimum development plans and timing are established.
All such carried costs are subject to regular technical, commercial and management review on at least an annual basis to confirm the continued intent to develop, or otherwise extract value from, the discovery.
Where this is no longer the case, the costs are immediately expensed.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management, the initial estimate of any decommissioning obligation, if any, and, for assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, borrowing costs.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
The capitalized value of a finance lease is also included within property, plant and equipment.
Exchanges of assets are measured at fair value unless the exchange transaction lacks commercial substance or the fair value of neither the asset received nor the asset given up is reliably measurable.
The cost of the acquired asset is measured at the fair value of the asset given up, unless the fair value of the asset received is more clearly evident.
Where fair value is not used, the cost of the acquired asset is measured at the carrying amount of the asset given up.
The gain or loss on derecognition of the asset given up is recognized in profit or loss.
Expenditure on major maintenance refits or repairs comprises the cost of replacement assets or parts of assets, inspection costs and overhaul costs.
Where an asset or part of an asset that was separately depreciated is replaced and it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the group, the expenditure is capitalized and the carrying amount of the replaced asset is derecognized.
Inspection costs associated with major maintenance programmes are capitalized and amortized over the period to the next inspection.
Overhaul costs for major maintenance programmes, and all other maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 129 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Oil and natural gas properties, including related pipelines, are depreciated using a unit-of-production method.
The cost of producing wells is amortized over proved developed reserves.
Licence acquisition, common facilities and future decommissioning costs are amortized over total proved reserves.
The unit-of-production rate for the depreciation of common facilities takes into account expenditures incurred to date, together with estimated future capital expenditure expected to be incurred relating to as yet undeveloped reserves expected to be processed through these common facilities.
Other property, plant and equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life.
The typical useful lives of the groups other property, plant and equipment are as follows: Land improvements 15 to 25 years Buildings 20 to 50 years Refineries 20 to 30 years Petrochemicals plants 20 to 30 years Pipelines 10 to 50 years Service stations 15 years Office equipment 3 to 7 years Fixtures and fittings 5 to 15 years The expected useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the item is included in the income statement in the period in which the item is derecognized.
Significant estimate or judgement The determination of the groups estimated oil and natural gas reserves requires significant judgements and estimates to be applied and these are regularly reviewed and updated.
Factors such as the availability of geological and engineering data, reservoir performance data, acquisition and divestment activity, drilling of new wells and commodity prices all impact on the determination of the groups estimates of its oil and natural gas reserves.
BP bases its proved reserves estimates on the requirement of reasonable certainty with rigorous technical and commercial assessments based on conventional industry practice and regulatory requirements.
The estimation of oil and natural gas reserves and BPs process to manage reserves bookings is described in Supplementary information on oil and natural gas on page 200, which is unaudited.
Details on BPs proved reserves and production compliance and governance processes are provided on page 245.
Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are used to calculate depreciation, depletion and amortization charges for the groups oil and gas properties.
The impact of changes in estimated proved reserves is dealt with prospectively by amortizing the remaining carrying value of the asset over the expected future production.
Oil and natural gas reserves also have a direct impact on the assessment of the recoverability of asset carrying values reported in the financial statements.
If proved reserves estimates are revised downwards, earnings could be affected by higher depreciation expense or an immediate write-down of the propertys carrying value.
The 2013 movements in proved reserves are reflected in the tables showing movements in oil and natural gas reserves by region in Supplementary information on oil and natural gas unaudited on page 200.
Information on the carrying amounts of the groups oil and natural gas properties, together with the amounts recognized in the income statement as depreciation, depletion and amortization is contained in Note 10 and Note 7 respectively.
Impairment of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment The group assesses assets or groups of assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, for example, changes in the groups business plans, changes in commodity prices leading to sustained unprofitable performance, low plant utilization, evidence of physical damage or, for oil and gas assets, significant downward revisions of estimated reserves or increases in estimated future development expenditure.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Individual assets are grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which there are identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets.
An asset groups recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Where the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset group is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are adjusted for the risks specific to the asset group and are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
Fair value less costs to sell is identified as the price that would be received to sell the asset in an orderly transaction between market participants and does not reflect the effects of factors that may be specific to the entity and not applicable to entities in general.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognized impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such an indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognized impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognized.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years.
Such reversal is recognized in profit or loss.
After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life.
130 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Significant estimate or judgement Determination as to whether, and how much, an asset is impaired involves management estimates on highly uncertain matters such as future commodity prices, the effects of inflation on operating expenses, discount rates, production profiles and the outlook for global or regional market supply-and-demand conditions for crude oil, natural gas and refined products.
For oil and natural gas properties, the expected future cash flows are estimated using managements best estimate of future oil and natural gas prices and reserves volumes.
Prices for oil and natural gas used for future cash flow calculations are based on market prices for the first five years and the groups long-term price assumptions thereafter.
As at 31 December 2013, the groups long-term price assumptions were $90 per barrel for Brent and $6.50 mmBtu for Henry Hub 2012 $90 per barrel and $6.50 mmBtu.
These long-term price assumptions are subject to periodic review and revision.
The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions about future commodity prices, production and development costs, field decline rates, current fiscal regimes and other factors.
For value in use calculations, future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the cash-generating unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
The discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital and is adjusted where applicable to take into account any specific risks relating to the country where the cash-generating unit is located, although other rates may be used if appropriate to the specific circumstances.
In 2013 the rates ranged from 12% to 14% nominal 2012 12% to 14% nominal.
The discount rates applied in assessments of impairment are reassessed each year.
In cases where fair value less costs to sell is used to determine the recoverable amount of an asset, where recent market transactions for the asset are not available for reference, accounting judgements are made about the assumptions market participants would use when pricing the asset.
Fair value less costs to sell may be determined based on similar recent market transaction data or using discounted cash flow techniques.
Where discounted cash flow analyses are used to calculate fair value less costs to sell, the discount rate used is the groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, BP is required to test annually for impairment of goodwill acquired in a business combination.
The group carries goodwill of approximately $12.2 billion on its balance sheet 2012 $12.2 billion, principally relating to the Atlantic Richfield, Burmah Castrol, Devon Energy and Reliance transactions.
In testing goodwill for impairment, the group uses a similar approach to that described above for asset impairment.
If there are low oil or natural gas prices or refining margins or marketing margins for an extended period, the group may need to recognize significant goodwill impairment charges.
The recoverability of intangible exploration and appraisal expenditure is covered under Oil and natural gas exploration, appraisal and development expenditure above.
Details of impairment charges recognized in the income statement are provided in Note 5 and details on the carrying amounts of assets are shown in Note 14, Note 15 and Note 16.
Inventories Inventories, other than inventory held for trading purposes, are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Cost is determined by the first-in first-out method and comprises direct purchase costs, cost of production, transportation and manufacturing expenses.
Net realizable value is determined by reference to prices existing at the balance sheet date.
Inventories held for trading purposes are stated at fair value less costs to sell and any changes in fair value are recognized in the income statement.
Supplies are valued at cost to the group mainly using the average method or net realizable value, whichever is the lower.
Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalized at the commencement of the lease term at the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Finance charges are allocated to each period so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability and are charged directly against income.
Capitalized leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
For both finance and operating leases, contingent rents are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified as loans and receivables: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss: derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge: held-to-maturity financial assets: or as available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
Financial assets include cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables, loans, other investments, and derivative financial instruments.
The group determinesthe classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are recognized initially at fair value, normally being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification, as follows: Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Such assets are carried at amortized cost using the effective interest method if the time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognized in income when the loans and receivables are derecognized or impaired, as well as through the amortization process.
This category of financial assets includes trade and other receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash, are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have a maturity of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
Derivatives, other than those designated as effective hedging instruments, are classified as held for trading and are included in this category.
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge Such derivatives are carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluation is described below in the accounting policy for derivative financial instruments and hedging activities.
Held-to-maturity financial assets Held-to-maturity financial assets are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that management has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity.
They are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 131 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are those non-derivative financial assets that are not classified as loans and receivables, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, or held-to-maturity financial assets.
After initial recognition, available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value, with gains or losses recognized within other comprehensive income, except for impairment losses, foreign exchange gains or losses and any changes in fair value arising from revised estimates of future cash flows, which are recognized in profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired.
Loans and receivables If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and receivables carried at amortized cost has been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced, with the amount of the loss recognized in the income statement.
Significant estimate or judgement Judgements are required in assessing the recoverability of overdue trade receivables, such as those in Egypt see Note 19 for further details, and determining whether a provision against the future recoverability of those receivables is required.
Factors considered include the credit rating ofthe counterparty, the amount and timing of anticipated future payments and any possible actions that can be taken to mitigate the risk of non-payment.
See Note 19 for information on overdue receivables.
Financial liabilities Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge: or as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, as appropriate.
Financial liabilities include trade and other payables, accruals, most items of finance debt and derivative financial instruments.
The group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition.
The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their classification, as follows: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are carried on the balance sheet at fair value with gains or losses recognized in the income statement.
Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost All other financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value.
For interest-bearing loans and borrowings this is the fair value of the proceeds received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After initial recognition, other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method.
Amortizedcostis calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or cancellation of liabilities are recognized respectively in interest and other income and finance costs.
This category of financial liabilities includes trade and other payables and finance debt.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The group uses derivative financial instruments to manage certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices as well as for trading purposes.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives relating to unquoted equity instruments are carried at cost where it is not possible to reliably measure their fair value subsequent to initial recognition.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial instruments asif the contracts were financial instruments, with the exception of contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or delivery of a non-financial item in accordance with the groups expected purchase, sale or usage requirements, are accounted for as financial instruments.
Contracts to buy or sell equity investments, including investments in associates, are also financial instruments.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that are not designated as effective hedging instruments are recognized in the income statement.
If, at inception of a contract, the valuation cannot be supported by observable market data, any gain or loss determined by the valuation methodology is not recognized in the income statement but is deferred on the balance sheet and is commonly known as day-one profit or loss.
This deferred gain or loss is recognized in the income statement over the life of the contract until substantially all the remaining contract term can be valued using observable market data at which point any remaining deferred gain or loss is recognized in the income statement.
Changes in valuation from the initial valuation are recognized immediately through the income statement.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Fair value hedges when hedging exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognized asset or liability.
Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction.
Hedge relationships are formally designated and documented at inception, together with the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge.
The documentation includes identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, and how the entity will assess the hedging instrument effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows.
Hedges meeting the criteria for hedge accounting are accounted for as follows: Fair value hedges The change in fair value of a hedging derivative is recognized in profit or loss.
The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged is recorded as part of the carrying value of the hedged item and is also recognized in profit or loss.
132 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued The group applies fair value hedge accounting for hedging fixed interest rate risk on borrowings.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of the interest rate swap is recognized in the income statement within finance costs, offsetting the amortization of the interest on the underlying borrowings.
If the criteria for hedge accounting are no longer met, or if the group revokes the designation, the adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest method is used is amortized to profit or loss over the period to maturity.
Cash flow hedges For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognized within other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognized in profit or loss.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement when the hedged transaction affects profit or loss.
The gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging variable rate borrowings is recognized in the income statement within finance costs.
Where the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, such as a forecast transaction for the purchase of property, plant and equipment, the amounts recognized within other comprehensive income are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
Where the hedged item is an equity investment, such as an investment in an associate, the amounts recognized in other comprehensive income remain in the separate component of equity until the investment is sold or impaired.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, amounts previously recognized within other comprehensive income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset or liability as above.
Significant estimate or judgement The decision as to whether to apply hedge accounting or not can have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
Cash flow and fair value hedge accounting is applied to certain of the groups finance debt-related derivatives in the normal course of business.
In addition, the financial statements reflect the application of cash flow hedge accounting to certain of the contracts signed in October 2012 for BP to sell its investment in TNK-BP and obtain an additional shareholding in Rosneft, which were accounted for as derivatives under IFRS.
We applied all-in-one cash flow hedge accounting to the contracts to acquire shares in Rosneft, resulting in a pre-tax loss of $2,061 million being recognized in other comprehensive income for the year 2012 pre-tax gain of $1,410 million.
See Note 26 for further information.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract.
Contracts are assessed for embedded derivatives when the group becomes a party to them, including at the date of a business combination.
Embedded derivatives are measured at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement.
Fair value measurement Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.
The group categorizes assets and liabilities measured at fair value into one of three levels depending on the ability to observe inputs employed in their measurement.
Level 1 inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 inputs are inputs that are observable, either directly or indirectly, other than quoted prices included within level 1 for the asset or liability.
Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability reflecting significant modifications to observable related market data or BPs assumptions about pricing by market participants.
Significant estimate or judgement In some cases the fair values of derivatives are estimated using internal models due to the absence of quoted prices or other observable, marketcorroborated data.
This applies to the groups longer-term derivative contracts and certain options, and to the forward contracts entered into in 2012 to purchase shares in Rosneft, as well as to the majority of the groups natural gas embedded contracts.
The groups embedded derivatives arise primarily from long-term UK gas contracts that use pricing formulae not related to gas prices, for example, oil product and power prices.
These contracts are valued using models with inputs that include price curves for each of the different products that are built up from active market pricing data and extrapolated to the expiry of the contracts using the maximum available external pricing information.
Additionally, where limited data exists for certain products, prices are interpolated using historic and long-term pricing relationships.
Price volatility is also an input for the models.
Changes in the key assumptions could have a material impact on the fair value gains and losses on derivatives and embedded derivatives recognized in the income statement.
For more information see Note 26.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are presented gross in the balance sheet unless both of the following criteria are met: the group currently has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognized amounts: and the group intends to either settle on a net basis or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
If both of the criteria are met, the amounts are set off and presented net.
Provisions, contingencies and reimbursement assets Provisions are recognized when the group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where appropriate, the future cash flow estimates are adjusted to reflect risks specific to the liability.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax risk-free rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognized within finance costs.
Provisions are split between amounts expected to be settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date current and amounts expected to be settled later non-current.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations whose existence will only be confirmed by future events not wholly within the control of the group, or present obligations where it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.
Contingent liabilities are not recognized in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the possibility of an outflow of economic resources is considered remote.
Where the group makes contributions into a separately administered fund for restoration, environmental or other obligations, which it does not control, and the groups right to the assets in the fund is restricted, the obligation to contribute to the fund is recognized as a liability where it is probable that BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 133 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued such additional contributions will be made.
The group recognizes a reimbursement asset separately, being the lower of the amount of the associated restoration, environmental or other provision and the groups share of the fair value of the net assets of the fund available to contributors.
Significant estimate or judgement Detailed information on the Gulf of Mexico oil spill, including the financial impacts, is provided in Note 2.
The provision recognized is the best reliable estimate of expenditures required to settle certain present obligations at the end of the reporting period, however there are future expenditures for which it is not possible to measure the obligation reliably.
These are not provided for and are disclosed as contingent liabilities.
Accounting judgement is required to identify when a provision can be measured reliably, which can be especially challenging when complex litigation activities are ongoing.
In addition, for those provisions which are recognized, there is significant estimation uncertainty about the amounts that will ultimately be paid, especially with regard to amounts payable under the Deepwater Horizon Court Supervised Settlement Program DHCSSP.
A provision is made for these costs when the amount can be measured reliably: this requires an analysis of claims received and processed and consideration of the status of ongoing legal activity.
The provision for penalties under the US Clean Water Act is based on the estimated civil penalty for strict liability.
This provision is calculated based on estimates as to the volume of oil spilled, as well as the assumption that BP did not act with gross negligence or engage in wilful misconduct, each of which will eventually be determined by the court on the basis of the trial proceedings.
Decommissioning Liabilities for decommissioning costs are recognized when the group has an obligation to plug and abandon a well, dismantle and remove a facility or an item of plant and to restore the site on which it is located, and when a reliable estimate of that liability can be made.
Where an obligation exists for a new facility or item of plant, such as oil and natural gas production or transportation facilities, this liability will be recognized on construction or installation.
Similarly, where an obligation exists for a well, this liability is recognized when it is drilled.
An obligation for decommissioning may also crystallize during the period of operation of a well, facility or item of plant through a change in legislation or through a decision to terminate operations: an obligation may also arise in cases where an asset has been sold but the subsequent owner is no longer able to fulfil its decommissioning obligations, for example due to bankruptcy.
The amount recognized is the present value of the estimated future expenditure determined in accordance with local conditions and requirements.
A corresponding intangible asset in the case of an exploration or appraisal well or item of property, plant and equipment of an amount equivalent to the provision is also recognized.
The item of property, plant and equipment is subsequently depreciated as part of the asset.
Other than the unwinding of discount on the provision, any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the corresponding asset.
Such changes include foreign exchange gains and losses arising on the retranslation of the liability into the functional currency of the reporting entity, when it is known that the liability will be settled in a foreign currency.
Environmental expenditures and liabilities Environmental expenditures that relate to future revenues are capitalized.
Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations that do not contribute to future earnings are expensed.
Liabilities for environmental costs are recognized when a clean-up is probable and the associated costs can be reliably estimated.
Generally, the timing of recognition of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
The amount recognized is the best estimate of the expenditure required.
Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, the amount recognized is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
Significant estimate or judgement The group holds provisions for the future decommissioning of oil and natural gas production facilities and pipelines at the end of their economic lives.
The largest decommissioning obligations facing BP relate to the plugging and abandonment of wells and the removal and disposal of oil and natural gas platforms and pipelines around the world.
Most of these decommissioning events are many years in the future and the precise requirements that will have to be met when the removal event actually occurs are uncertain.
Decommissioning technologies and costs are constantly changing, as well as political, environmental, safety and public expectations.
If oil and natural gas production facilities and pipelines are sold to third parties and the subsequent owner is unable to meet their decommissioning obligations, judgement must be used to determine whether BP is then responsible for decommissioning, and if so the extent of that responsibility.
Consequently, the timing and amounts of future cash flows are subject to significant uncertainty.
Any changes in the expected future costs are reflected in both the provision and the asset.
Decommissioning provisions associated with downstream and petrochemicals facilities are generally not recognized, as such potential obligations cannot be measured, given their indeterminate settlement dates.
The group performs periodic reviews of its downstream and petrochemicals longlived assets for any changes in facts and circumstances that might require the recognition of a decommissioning provision.
The provision for environmental liabilities is estimated based on current legal and constructive requirements, technology, price levels and expected plans for remediation.
Actual costs and cash outflows can differ from estimates because of changes in laws and regulations, public expectations, prices, discovery and analysis of site conditions and changes in clean-up technology.
Other provisions and liabilities are recognized in the period when it becomes probable that there will be a future outflow of funds resulting from past operations or events and the amount of cash outflow can be reliably estimated.
The timing of recognition and quantification of the liability require the application of judgement to existing facts and circumstances, which can be subject to change.
Since the actual cash outflows can take place many years in the future, the carrying amounts of provisions and liabilities are reviewed regularly and adjusted to take account of changing facts and circumstances.
The timing and amount of future expenditures are reviewed annually, together with the interest rate used in discounting the cash flows.
The interest rate used to determine the balance sheet obligation at the end of 2013 was a real rate of 1.0% 2012 0.5%, which was based on long-dated government bonds.
Provisions and contingent liabilities in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill are discussed in Note 2.
Information about the groups other provisions is provided in Note 29.
As further described in Note 35, the group is subject to claims and actions.
The facts and circumstances relating to particular cases are evaluated regularly in determining whether it is probable that there will be a future outflow of funds and, once established, whether a provision relating to a specific litigation should be established or revised.
Accordingly, significant management judgement relating to provisions and contingent liabilities is required, since the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict.
134 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Employee benefits Wages, salaries, bonuses, social security contributions, paid annual leave and sick leave are accrued in the period in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the group.
Deferred bonus arrangements that have a vesting date more than 12 months after the period end are valued on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and amortized on a straight-line basis over the service period until the award vests.
The accounting policies for share-based payments and for pensions and other post-retirement benefits are described below.
Share-based payments Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which equity instruments are granted and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined by using an appropriate valuation model.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of the company market conditions.
Non-vesting conditions, such as the condition that employees contribute to a savings-related plan, are taken into account in the grant-date fair value, and failure to meet a non-vesting condition, where this is within the control of the employee is treated as a cancellation and expensed.
Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value at each balance sheet date and recognized as an expense over the vesting period, with a corresponding liability for the cumulative expense recognized on the balance sheet.
Pensions and other post-retirement benefits The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
Past service costs, resulting from either a plan amendment or a curtailment a reduction in future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the plan membership, are recognized immediately when the company becomes committed to a change.
Net interest expense relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits represents the net change in present value of plan obligations and the value of plan assets resulting from the passage of time, and is determined by applying the discount rate to the present value of the benefit obligation at the start of the year, and to the fair value of plan assets at the start of the year, taking into account expected changes in the obligation or plan assets during the year.
Net interest expense relating to pensions and other post-retirement benefits is recognized in the income statement.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability or asset, comprising actuarial gains and losses, and the return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest described above are recognized within other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
The defined benefit pension plan surplus or deficit in the balance sheet comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and, in the case of quoted securities, is the published bid price.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they become payable.
Significant estimate or judgement Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement benefits involves judgement about uncertain events, including estimated retirement dates, salary levels at retirement, mortality rates, determination of discount rates for measuring plan obligations and net interest expense, assumptions for inflation rates, US healthcare cost trend rates and rates of utilization of healthcare services by US retirees.
These assumptions are based on the environment in each country.
The assumptions used may vary from year to year, which would affect future net income and net assets.
Any differences between these assumptions and the actual outcome also affect future net income and net assets.
Pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions are reviewed by management at the end of each year.
These assumptions are used to determine the projected benefit obligation at the year end and hence the surpluses and deficits recorded on the groups balance sheet, and pension and other post-retirement benefit expense for the following year.
In 2013, we adopted the revised version of IAS 19 Employee Benefits see below for further information, and we now apply the same rate of return on plan assets as we use to discount our pension liabilities.
The impact of this change on key financial statement line items is shown at the end of this note.
The pension and other post-retirement benefit assumptions at 31 December 2013, 2012 and 2011 are provided in Note 30.
The discount rate, inflation rate and the US healthcare cost trend rate have a significant effect on the amounts reported.
A sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in these assumptions on the benefit expense and obligation is provided in Note 30.
In addition to the financial assumptions, we regularly review the demographic and mortality assumptions.
Mortality assumptions reflect best practice in the countries in which we provide pensions and have been chosen with regard to the latest available published tables adjusted where appropriate to reflect the experience of the group and an extrapolation of past longevity improvements into the future.
A sensitivity analysis of the impact of changes in the mortality assumptions on the benefit expense and obligation is provided in Note 30.
Income taxes Income tax expense represents the sum of current tax and deferred tax.
Interest and penalties relating to income tax are also included in the income tax expense.
Income tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the related tax is recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is based on the taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it is determined in accordance with the rules established by the applicable taxation authorities.
It therefore excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods as well as items that are never taxable or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 135 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable temporary differences except: Where the deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of goodwill: or Where the deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: or In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognized for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry-forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilized: Except where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss.
In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilized.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realized or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset only when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or to realize the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Significant estimate or judgement The computation of the groups income tax expense and liability involves the interpretation of applicable tax laws and regulations in many jurisdictions throughout the world.
The resolution of tax positions taken by the group, through negotiations with relevant tax authorities or through litigation, can take several years to complete and in some cases it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome.
Therefore, judgement is required to determine provisions for income taxes.
In addition, the group has carry-forward tax losses and tax credits in certain taxing jurisdictions that are available to offset against future taxable profit.
However, deferred tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the unused tax losses or tax credits can be utilized.
Management judgement is exercised in assessing whether this is the case.
To the extent that actual outcomes differ from managements estimates, income tax charges or credits, and changes in current and deferred tax assets or liabilities, may arise in future periods.
For more information see Note 35.
Judgement is also required when determining whether a particular tax is an income tax or another type of tax for example a production tax.
Accounting for deferred tax is applied to income taxes as described above, but is not applied to other types of taxes: rather such taxes are recognized in the income statement on an appropriate basis.
Customs duties and sales taxes Customs duties and sales taxes which are passed on to customers are excluded from revenues and expenses.
Assets and liabilities are recognized net of the amount of customs duties or sales tax except: Where the customs duty or sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the customs duty or sales tax is recognized as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset.
Receivables and payables are stated with the amount of customs duty or sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included within receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
Own equity instruments The groups holdings in its own equity instruments, including ordinary shares held by Employee Share Ownership Plans ESOPs, are classified as treasury shares, or own shares for the ESOPs, and are shown as deductions from shareholders equity at cost.
Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognized in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from sale and the original cost being taken to the profit and loss account reserve.
No gain or loss is recognized in the income statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of equity shares.
Shares repurchased under the share buy-back programme which are immediately cancelled are not shown as treasury shares or own shares, but are shown as a deduction from the profit and loss reserve in the group statement of changes in equity.
Revenue Revenue arising from the sale of goods is recognized when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer, which is typically at the point that title passes, and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales taxes.
Physical exchanges are reported net, as are sales and purchases made with a common counterparty, as part of an arrangement similar to a physical exchange.
Similarly, where the group acts as agent on behalf of a third party to procure or market energy commodities, any associated fee income is recognized but no purchase or sale is recorded.
Additionally, where forward sale and purchase contracts for oil, natural gas or power have been determined to be for trading purposes, the associated sales and purchases are reported net within sales and other operating revenues whether or not physical delivery has occurred.
136 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Generally, revenues from the production of oil and natural gas properties in which the group has an interest with joint operation partners are recognized on the basis of the groups working interest in those properties the entitlement method.
Differences between the production sold and the groups share of production are not significant.
Interest income is recognized as the interest accrues using the effective interest rate that is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.
Dividend income from investments is recognized when the shareholders right to receive the payment is established.
Research Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Finance costs Finance costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use, are added to the cost of those assets until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
All other finance costs are recognized in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Impact of new International Financial Reporting Standards Adopted for 2013 BP adopted several new and amended standards issued by the IASB with effect from 1 January 2013.
Of these the following two standards have a significant effect on the groups consolidated financial statements: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements In May 2011, the IASB issued IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, one of a suite of standards relating to interests in other entities and related disclosures.
IFRS 11 establishes a principle that applies to the accounting for all joint arrangements, whereby parties to the arrangement account for their underlying contractual rights and obligations relating to the joint arrangement.
IFRS 11 identifies two types of joint arrangements.
A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Investments in joint operations are accounted for by recognizing the groups assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses relating to the joint operation.
The main impact of IFRS 11 is that certain of the groups former jointly controlled entities, which were equity accounted, now fall under the definition of a joint operation under IFRS 11.
Whilst the effect of the new requirements on the groups reported income and net assets is not material, the change does impact certain of the component lines of the groups financial statements, as shown in the table below.
We have derecognized approximately $7 billion of investments and we now recognize the groups assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses relating to these arrangements.
BPs share of oil and natural gas reserves associated with former jointly controlled entities that were previously equity-accounted, and are now classified as joint operations, have been reclassified from equity-accounted entities to subsidiaries in the Supplementary information on oiland natural gas.
Amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits In June 2011, the IASB issued an amended version of IAS 19 Employee Benefits, which brings in various changes relating to the recognition and measurement of post-retirement defined benefit expense and termination benefits, and to the disclosures for all employee benefits.
The main impact for BP is that the expense for defined benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit plans now includes a net interest income or expense, which is calculated by taking the discount rate used for measuring the obligation and applying that to the net defined benefit asset or liability.
This means that the expected return on assets credited to profit or loss previously calculated based on the expected long-term return on pension assets is now based on a lower corporate bond rate, the same rate that is used to discount the pension liability.
The impact was to decrease profit before tax by $1,001 million for the year ended 31 December 2013 2012 $763 million, 2011 $659 million with other comprehensive income being increased by the same amount.
There was no impact on the balance sheet at 31 December or on cash flows.
Adjustments made to certain selected financial statement line items The following table sets out the adjustments made to certain selected financial statement line items of the previously reported comparative amounts as a result of the adoption of the amended IAS 19 Employee Benefits and the new standard IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 137 1.
Significant accounting policies, judgements, estimates and assumptions continued Detailed restated financial information for 2012 and 2011 is shown in BP Financial and Operating Information 2008-2012 available on bp.
Other standards A number of other new or amended standards have been adopted by the group with effect from 1 January 2013 but do not have a significant impact on the financial statements.
These include: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements introduces a single consolidation model that identifies control as the basis for consolidation.
The new model applies to all types of entities, including structured entities.
Under the new model, an investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
There was no effect on the groups reported income or net assets as a result of the adoption of IFRS 10.
IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities combines all the disclosure requirements for an entitys interests in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured entities into one comprehensive disclosure standard.
There was no effect on the groups reported income or net assets as a result of the adoption of IFRS 12.
The disclosures required by the standard are included in this report.
In May 2011, the IASB issued a new standard, IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The new standard defines fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value and contains the required disclosures about fair value measurements.
IFRS 13 does not require fair value measurements in addition to those already required or permitted by other standards, rather it prescribes how fair value should be measured if another standard requires it.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date i. e. it is an exit price.
There was no significant impact on the groups reported income or net assets as a result of the adoption of IFRS 13.
The disclosures required by the new standard are included in this report.
In December 2011, the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 7 Disclosures Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
This amendment introduces new disclosure requirements about the effects of offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities and related arrangements on an entitys balance sheet.
The new disclosures are included in this report.
In June 2011, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements on the presentation of other comprehensive income OCI.
The amendments require that those items of OCI that might be reclassified to profit or loss at a future date be presented separately from those items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss.
The adoption of the amended standard has a presentational impact on the groups statement of comprehensive income, with no effect on the reported income, total comprehensive income, or net assets of the group.
The presentation required by the amended standard is included in this report.
In May 2013, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 36 Impairment of Assets in relation to the disclosure of recoverable amounts for non-financial assets.
The amendment addressed certain unintended consequences arising from consequential amendments made to IAS 36 when IFRS 13 was issued.
Although the mandatory effective date for application of the amendment is for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014, the group has early-adopted it in these financial statements.
In addition, a number of other standards and interpretations were adopted in the year which had no significant impact on the groups reported income and net assets.
Not yet adopted The following pronouncements from the IASB will become effective for future financial reporting periods and have not yet been adopted by the group.
As part of the IASBs project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, in November 2009 the IASB issued the first phase of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, dealing with the classification and measurement of financial assets.
In October 2010, the IASB updated IFRS 9 by incorporating the requirements for the accounting for financial liabilities and in November 2013 the IASB published revised guidance for hedge accounting.
The remaining phase of IFRS 9, dealing with impairment, and further changes to the classification and measurement requirements, are still to be completed.
In November 2013, the IASB also removed the effective date from IFRS 9 and will decide on an effective date when the entire IFRS 9 project is closer to completion.
BP has not yet decided the date of adoption for the group and has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of adoption.
The EU has not yet adopted IFRS 9.
In December 2011, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 32 Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
This amendment clarifies the presentation requirements in relation to offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities on an entitys balance sheet.
The amendment to IAS 32is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014.
BPs evaluation of the effect of adoption of the amendment to IAS 32 is substantially complete, and is not expected to result in any significant changes to the offsetting of financial assets and liabilities on the groups balance sheet.
There are no other standards and interpretations in issue but not yet adopted that the directors anticipate will have a material effect on the reported income or net assets of the group.
138 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
