96 a Executive directors Directors remuneration policy 96 Introduction 98 Remuneration policy table The following pages set out the remuneration policy 100 Remuneration policy in more depth 100 Salary and benets for directors of BP p. l. c. which, if approved by 100 Annual bonus shareholders at the AGM on 10 April 2014, will take 101 Deferred bonus 102 Performance shares effect from the date of that meeting.
103 Pension 104 Scenario charts The policy is divided into separate sections for 105 Recruitment executive and non-executive directors.
The 105 Service contracts 105 Exit payments remuneration of the executive directors is set by the 106 External appointments remuneration committee the committee under 107 b Non-executive directors delegated powers from the board.
The committee makes a recommendation to the board for the remuneration of the chairman.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the board based on a recommendation from the chairman, the group chief executive and the company secretary.
a Executive directors Fair treatment: Total overall pay takes account of both the external market Introduction and company conditions to achieve a balanced, fair outcome.
The remuneration policy for the executive directors and the decisions of Shareholder engagement: The remuneration committee actively seeks the remuneration committee have been consistently guided by six key to understand shareholder preferences and be transparent in explaining its principles.
These principles were introduced more than 10 years ago and policy and decisions.
have been described in all remuneration reports to shareholders since then.
The aim of this policy is to ensure that executive directors are remunerated Key principles in a way that reects the companys long-term strategy.
Consistent with this, a high proportion of directors total potential remuneration has been, The principles represent the overarching approach of the board and the and will be, strongly linked to the companys long-term performance.
committee to the remuneration of the executive directors.
Linked to strategy: A substantial proportion of executive director remuneration is linked to success in implementing the companys strategy.
Performance related: The major part of total remuneration varies with performance, with the largest elements being share based, further aligning with shareholders interests.
Long term: The structure of pay is designed to reect the long-term nature of BPs business and the signicance of safety and environmental risks.
Informed judgement: There are quantitative and qualitative assessments of performance with the remuneration committee making informed judgement within a framework approved by shareholders.
96 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Corporate governance Flexibility, judgement and discretion Implementation matters The committee is empowered to undertake quantitative and qualitative This policy is a forward-looking document, but it is a requirement of the assessments of performance in reaching its decisions.
This involves the regulations that, if obligations under the companys previous remuneration use of judgement and discretion within a framework that is approved by, policy are to remain in force, these must be stated and certain information and transparent to, shareholders.
In view of the long-term nature of BPs remuneration structures including obligations under service contracts, pension The committee considers that the powers of exibility, judgement and arrangements, the executive directors incentive plan EDIP and other discretion are critical to successful design and implementation of the incentive awards a substantial number of pre-existing obligations will remuneration policy.
This approach is supported in the UK by the ABIs remain outstanding at the time that this policy is approved, including principles of remuneration and the GC100 and Investor Groups guidance obligations that are grandfathered by virtue of being in force at on directors remuneration reporting.
It is the companys policy to honour in full any pre-existing In framing this policy, the committee has therefore taken care to ensure obligations that have been entered into prior to the effective date of that these existing and important powers are continued in the future.
t The committee considers that an effective remuneration policy needs Finally the new regulations require detailed information on performance to be sufciently exible to take account of future changes in the measures and targets to be included in the report unless the directors industry environment facing BP and in remuneration practice generally.
consider that information to be commercially sensitive.
The directors are The policy is therefore sufciently exible so that the committee can committed to full and transparent disclosure to shareholders and will seek react to changed circumstances for example in applying particular to provide the information wherever possible.
However, the directors have performance measures within schemes which may need to evolve with determined that the current targets for shortand long-term incentives are the strategy of the company, without the need for a specic commercially sensitive and should not be disclosed at the commencement shareholder approval.
of any relevant performance period as they believe this is not in the interests of the company.
The directors will review such targets at the end t The policy preserves the committees long-standing power to exercise of each relevant performance period and determine whether any target judgement in making a qualitative assessment in certain circumstances.
For annual or long-term bonus awards a number of metrics are used.
Many are numerical in nature and require a quantitative assessment.
Executive directors incentive plan Some will be qualitative, for example the maintenance or improvement The EDIP was first approved by shareholders in April 2000 and has since in the companys reputation.
Here an impartial assessment will provided the umbrella framework for share based remuneration for be required.
With the introduction of the new UK regulations on pay t This policy sets out various areas where the committee has discretion, reporting, the prime shareholder approval for all elements of remuneration mainly where it is desirable to vary a formulaic outcome that would policy, including share based elements, will now be via the policy report.
otherwise arise from the policys implementation.
The committee The EDIP will continue to provide the vehicle to implement the share based considers that the ability to exercise discretion, upwards or downwards, elements of policy that have been approved by shareholders, the EDIP will is important to ensure that a particular outcome is fair in light of the continue to require a separate shareholder approval under UK Listing Rules, directors own performance and the companys overall performance and and its renewal has been brought forward to the 2014 AGM to coincide positioning under particular performance metrics.
In accordance with UK with the approval of this remuneration policy.
Given the duplication of the regulations, areas where the remuneration policy provides for the two regulatory regimes, the remuneration committee will ensure that any exercise of discretion are identied in the report.
actions taken in future under the EDIP will be consistent with the policy approved by shareholders.
This policy sets out the areas where the committee wishes to have exibility or use discretion in its implementation.
Each year, the committee will report to shareholders on the use of these powers.
Key considerations The committee considers a wide range of factors when developing the remuneration policy for executive directors.
The competitive market for top executives both within the oil sector and broader industrial corporations provides an important context.
The committee believes that it has a duty to shareholders to ensure that the company is competitive so as to attract and retain the high calibre executives required to lead the company.
The committee also considers employment conditions within the company when establishing and implementing policy for executive directors to ensure alignment of principles and approach.
In particular the committee reviews the policy for the group leaders of around 500 top executives to ensure that policy for both groups is aligned and reects consistent standards and approach.
Decisions regarding remuneration for employees outside the group leaders are the responsibility of the group chief executive.
Employees are not consulted directly by the committee when making policy decisions although feedback from employee surveys provide views on a wide range of points including pay which are regularly reported to the board.
The committee has a long-standing and active programme of engaging with key shareholders that includes one-on-one meetings with them each year.
This engagement programme complements the overall investor relations and board engagement efforts of the company, and focuses mainly on our largest shareholders and main proxy advisers.
Feedback from shareholders on executive director remuneration forms an important component of the committees considerations when establishing policy.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 97 Remuneration policy table Element and purpose Operation and opportunity t 4 BMBSJFT BSF OPSNBMMZ TFU JO UIF IPNF t 4BMBSZ JODSFBTFT will be in line with all Salary and benets currency of the executive director and employee increases in the UK and US and reviewed annually.
limited to within 2% of average increase for the group leaders.
Provides base-level xed remuneration t 4 BMBSZ MFWFMT BOE UPUBM SFNVOFSBUJPO PG PJM to reect the scale and dynamics of the and other top European multinationals, and t #FOFmUT SFnFDU IPNF DPVOUSZ OPSNT.
business, and to be competitive with the related US corporations, are considered by The current package of benets will be external market.
Internally, increases for the maintained, although the taxable value group leaders as well as all employees in may uctuate.
See page 100. relevant countries are considered.
"t 5 PUBM PWFSBMM CPOVT CFGPSF BOZ EFGFSSBM JT t ""DIJFWJOH BOOVBM QMBO PCKFDUJWFT FRVBUFT Annual bonus based on performance relative to measures to on-target bonus."
The level of threshold and targets reected in the annual plan, payout for minimum performance varies which in turn reects BPs strategy.
according to the nature of the measure Provides a variable level of remuneration in question.
dependent on short-term performance t 0 O UBSHFU CPOVT JT PG TBMBSZ XJUI against the annual plan.
"See page 100. t "" U IJSE PG UIF BOOVBM CPOVT JT SFRVJSFE UP CF t 8IFSF TIBSFT WFTU BEEJUJPOBM TIBSFT Deferred bonus deferred and up to a further third can be representing the value of reinvested deferred voluntarily."
This deferred bonus is dividends are added.
Reinforces the long-term nature of t #FGPSF CFJOH SFMFBTFE BMM NBUDIFE TIBSFT the business and the importance of t % FGFSSFE TIBSFT BSF NBUDIFE PO B POF GPS that vest after the three-year performance sustainability, linking a further part one basis, and both deferred and matched period are subject after tax to an additional of remuneration to equity.
shares vest after three years depending on three-year retention period.
an assessment by the committee of safety See page 101. and environmental sustainability over the three-year period.
t 4 IBSFT VQ UP B NBYJNVN WBMVF PG mWF BOE t 8IFSF TIBSFT WFTU BEEJUJPOBM TIBSFT Performance shares a half times salary for the group chief representing the value of reinvested executive and four times salary for the other dividends are added.
executive directors can be awarded annually.
Ties the largest part of remuneration to t #FGPSF CFJOH SFMFBTFE UIPTF TIBSFT UIBU long-term performance.
The level varies t 7FTUJOH PG TIBSFT BGUFS UISFF ZFBST JT vest after the three-year performance period according to performance relative to dependent on performance relative to are subject after tax to an additional measures linked directly to strategic measures and targets reecting BPs three-year retention period.
See page 102. t & YFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST QBSUJDJQBUF JO UIF t $VSSFOU 64 FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST QBSUJDJQBUF JO Pension company pension schemes that apply in transition arrangements related to heritage their home country.
plans of Amoco and Arco and normal dened benefit plans that apply to Recognizes competitive practice t $ VSSFOU 6, FYFDVUJWF EJSFDUPST SFNBJO PO B executives with an accrual rate of 1.3% of in home country.
dened benefit pension plan and receive a final earnings salary plus bonus for each cash supplement of 35% of salary in lieu of See page 103. year of service.
future service accrual when they exceed the annual allowance set by legislation.
Note: Further information is set out in the accompanying notes which follow this table.
98 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Corporate governance Performance framework Changes to policy t 4BMBSZ JODSFBTFT BSF OPU EJSFDUMZ MJOLFE UP No change to policy.
However a base-line level of personal contribution is needed in order to be considered for a salary increase and exceptional sustained contribution may be grounds for accelerated salary increases.
t 4QFDJmD NFBTVSFT BOE UBSHFUT BSF EFUFSNJOFE t 5I F principal measures of annual bonus will be No change to policy.
each year by the remuneration committee.
based on value creation and may include financial measures such as operating cash ow, t A proportion will be based on safety and replacement cost operating profit and cost operational risk management and is likely to management, as well as operating measures include measures such as loss of primary such as major project delivery, Downstream net containment, recordable injury frequency and income per barrel and Upstream unplanned tier 1 process safety events.
The specic metrics chosen each year will be set out and explained in the annual report on remuneration.
t #PUI EFGFSSFE BOE NBUDIFE TIBSFT NVTU from the safety, ethics and environmental Introduction of an additional three-year pass an additional hurdle related to safety and assurance committee, may conclude that shares retention period on matched shares that environmental sustainability performance in vest in part, or not at all.
This results in a six-year plan, the order to vest.
same as for performance shares.
"t "" MM EFGFSSFE TIBSFT BSF TVCKFDU UP DMBXCBDL t G UIFSF IBT CFFO B NBUFSJBM EFUFSJPSBUJPO JO provisions if they are found to have been granted safety and environmental metrics, or there have on the basis of materially misstated financial or been major incidents revealing underlying other data."
weaknesses in safety and environmental management then the committee, with advice t 1FSGPSNBODF TIBSFT XJMM WFTU PO UIF GPMMPXJOH t 5 IF DPNNJUUFF JEFOUJmFT UIF TQFDJmD TUSBUFHJD Override provision extended requiring three performance measures: imperatives to be included every year and may high levels of vesting to be consistent Total shareholder return relative to other also alter the other measures if others are with shareholder benefit.
deemed to be more aligned to strategic priorities.
More stringent vesting schedule for Operating cash ow.
These are explained in the annual report on those metrics that are measured on Strategic imperatives.
performance relative to the other four t. FBTVSFT CBTFE PO SFMBUJWF QFSGPSNBODF UP PJM t 5 IF DPNNJUUFF NBZ FYFSDJTF KVEHFNFOU UP BEKVTU oil majors.
Third place nish reduced majors will vest 100%, 80%, 25% for first, vesting outcomes if it concludes that the formulaic from 35% to 25% and second place second and third place nish respectively and approach does not reect the true underlying increased from 70% to 80%.
0% for fourth or fifth position.
performance of the companys business or is inconsistent with shareholder benets.
"t "" MM QFSGPSNBODF TIBSFT BSF TVCKFDU UP DMBXCBDL provisions if they are found to have been granted on the basis of materially misstated financial or other data."
t 1FOTJPO JO UIF 6, JT OPU EJSFDUMZ MJOLFE UP No change to policy.
t 1FOTJPO JO UIF 64 JODMVEFT CPOVT JO EFUFSNJOJOH benefit level.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 99 Remuneration policy in more depth Salary and benets At 1 January 2014, the annual salaries for executive directors were as follows: The committee will make a balanced judgement of what, if any, increase Bob Dudley $1,800,000, Iain Conn 774,000 and Dr Brian Gilvary 710,000. should be applied to each executive directors salary.
These decisions, and the reasons for them, form part of the annual report of remuneration.
Most components of total remuneration are determined as multiples of salary and so the committee reviews salaries, normally annually.
Benets and other emoluments These reviews consider both external competitiveness and internal Executive directors are entitled to receive those benets which are made consistency when determining if any increases should be applied.
available to employees generally in accordance with their applicable terms, for example sharesave plans, sickness policy, relocation assistance and Salaries are compared against other oil majors, but the committee also maternity pay.
monitors market practice among European and US companies of a similar size, geographic spread and business dynamic to BP.
In addition, executive directors may receive other benets that are judged to be cost effective and prudent in terms of the individuals time and or Salaries are normally set in the home currency of the executive director.
These include car-related benets, security assistance, tax The levels of increase for all our employees in relevant countries, as well as preparation assistance, insurance and medical benets.
The costs of these the prole of increases for group leaders, are reviewed and considered are treated as taxable benets to the individuals and are included in the when assessing executive director salary increases.
single gure table of the annual report on remuneration.
The company would The committee would expect annual increases to be in line with all meet any tax charges arising in respect of benets provided to directors that employee increases in the UK and US, unless there are promotions or it considers relate to its business for example security assistance.
significant changes in responsibilities, in which case they would retain the The committee expects to maintain benets at their current level for the exibility to recognize these with appropriate salary increases but will be duration of this policy but notes that the taxable value may uctuate limited to within 2% of average increase for the group leaders.
depending on, amongst other things, insurance premiums, and a directors personal circumstances.
Annual bonus Operation History of annual bonus results Highlights On-target Average actual result 200 150% of salary on target, 225% maximum.
150 Metrics focused on safety and operational risk, 100 and on value creation.
50 Details on performance measures will be explained each year in annual report on remuneration.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Executive directors are eligible for an annual bonus before any deferral of Performance measures 150% of salary at target and 225% at maximum.
Bonuses for the group The measures used to determine bonus results will derive from the annual chief executive and the chief financial officer will be based entirely on plan and support the strategic priorities of safety and operational risk group measures.
Executive directors with large operating responsibilities S&OR management and reinforcing value creation.
may have up to 50% of their bonus based on their respective business segment, with the balance based on group measures.
The committee determines specic measures, weightings and targets each year to reect the groups strategy, key performance indicators KPIs The strategy provides the overall context for the companys key and the priorities in the annual plan.
These measures will be reported each performance indicators and the focus for the annual plan.
From this, year in the annual report on remuneration.
measures and targets to reect the key priorities of the business are selected at the start of the year for senior managers, including executive For safety and operational risk management the measures may include directors.
Measures typically include a range of financial and operating established ones such as loss of primary containment, tier 1 process ones as well as those relating to safety and the environment.
safety events, recordable injury frequency, and or days away from work frequency.
The measures selected will typically track both process and Where possible, the committee uses quantiable, hard targets that can be personal safety and give an overall perspective on performance.
The factually measured and objectively assessed.
Where it is appropriate to committee will also seek the input of the safety, ethics and environmental use qualitative measures, the information used to make assessments will assurance committee SEEAC to determine if there are any other factors be established at the start of or early in the year.
Targets are set so that or metrics that should be considered in arriving at a final assessment at achieving plan levels of performance results in on-target bonus.
maximum levels, targets reect performance levels that the committee judges are very stretching but nonetheless achievable.
Value creation will form the principal measures and include both financial and operating metrics that track performance relative to value creation.
At the end of each year, performance is assessed relative to the measures Financial measures for value creation may include operating cash ow, and targets established at the start of the year, adjusted for any material underlying replacement cost profit, and cost management or other similar changes in the market environment predominantly oil prices.
measures tracking the financial outcome of the companys pursuit of In addition to the specic bonus metrics, the committee also reviews the strategic goals.
Additional operating metrics may include major project underlying performance of the group in light of the annual plan, delivery, Upstream unplanned deferrals, and Downstream net income per competitors results and analysts reports, and seeks input from other barrel or other similar measures that track key operating aspects of the committees on relevant aspects.
When appropriate, the committee may strategy.
make adjustments, up or down, to a straight formulaic result based on this Where segment metrics are applied, they will typically include specic fuller information.
The committee considers that this informed judgement safety metrics for the segment as well as value metrics such as availability, is important to establishing a fair overall assessment.
efficiency, profitability and major project delivery.
The rigorous process followed by the committee has resulted in bonus levels varying considerably over a number of years, reecting the changing circumstances of the company during the period.
The following chart shows the average annual bonus result before any deferral relative to an on-target level for executive directors.
100 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 % of target Corporate governance 5 2 r r a a e e Y Y Deferred bonus The structure of deferred bonus, awarded in shares, focuses on long-term additional performance hurdles.
As shown below, the deferred bonus is alignment with shareholder interests and reinforces the critical importance converted to shares, matched and deferred for three years.
Half the total of maintaining high safety and environmental standards.
It translates the that vests will then normally have an additional three-year retention outcome of a portion of the annual bonus into a long-term plan with period before release.
Three-year Three-year retention deferral for half Total deferred Vests based on Converted to shares Balance released bonus and matched performance Half released Operation Performance measures The safety and environmental sustainability hurdle, in place since 2010, will Highlights continue to be applied to all deferred shares.
If the committee assesses that there has been a material deterioration in safety and environmental A third mandatory and up to a third voluntary deferral.
metrics, or there have been major incidents either of which reveal Converted to shares, matched one-for-one and deferred for three years.
underlying weaknesses in safety and environmental management, then it may conclude that shares vest in part, or not at all.
In reaching its Vesting of all conditional on safety and environmental sustainability hurdle.
conclusion, the committee will obtain advice from the SEEAC.
Matched shares subject to additional three-year retention period post The committee believes that this safety and environmental hurdle is vesting.
appropriate for several reasons: A third of the annual bonus is required to be deferred for three years.
Under t High standards in this area are an important priority of BPs strategy.
the rules of the plan, the average share price over the three days following t Maintaining safety and environmental standards over the long term is a the announcement of full-year results is used to determine the number of good qualitative reection of the sustainability of the business.
Deferred shares are matched on a one-for-one basis.
t This non-financial hurdle complements the financial and operational Executive directors may elect, with the committees agreement, to take up performance conditions applicable to performance share awards.
to a further third of their annual bonus in shares, which will vest and will qualify for matching on the same basis as above.
Both deferred and matched shares vest after three years depending on the committees assessment of safety and environmental sustainability over the three-year deferral period.
Where shares vest, the executive director will also receive additional shares representing the value of the reinvested dividends on those shares.
Beginning with the 2013 bonus deferral, matched shares that vest half of the total that vests will normally be subject to a compulsory retention period of a further three years.
sufficient shares may be sold to discharge tax liabilities at the vesting date.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 101 Y Y e e a a r r 1 4 3 6 r r a a e e Y Y 5 2 r r a a e e Y Y Performance shares The performance share element reects the committees policy that a retention period for those shares that vest, creates a six-year incentive plan designed to ensure executive interests are aligned with those of large proportion of remuneration is tied to long-term performance.
This three-year performance period, combined with a further three-year shareholders.
Three-year Three-year performance retention period period Shares vest based Award Released on performance Operation Performance measures Performance measures will be aligned to BPs strategy that focuses on Highlights value creation and reinforcing safety and operational risk management.
Vesting of a portion of shares will be based on our total shareholder return Shares awarded to five and a half times salary for the group chief executive and four times for other executive directors.
TSR compared to other oil majors, reecting the central importance of restoring and maintaining the value of the company.
A further portion will Three-year performance period.
be based on the operating cash ow of the company, reecting a central element of value creation.
The final portion will be based on a set of Performance measures reect strategy and KPIs.
strategic imperatives such as reserves replacement ratio, S&OR Three-year retention period for those shares that vest.
management, and major project delivery.
For the TSR and the reserves replacement ratio measures, the comparator Performance shares may be awarded conditionally at the start of each year group will continue to consist of ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
This to a value of up to five and a half times salary for the group chief executive group can be altered by the committee if circumstances change, for and up to four times salary for the other executive directors the maximum example, if there is significant consolidation in the industry.
While a narrow allowed under the EDIP.
Under the rules of the EDIP, the average share group, it continues to represent the comparators that both shareholders price over the final quarter before the start of the performance period is and management use in assessing relative performance.
used to determine the number of shares awarded.
Performance shares will only vest to the extent that performance conditions are met.
TSR will be calculated by taking the share price performance over the three-year performance period, assuming dividends are reinvested.
All Where shares vest, the executive director will receive additional shares share prices will be averaged over the three-month period before the representing the value of the reinvested dividends on those shares.
beginning and end of the performance period.
They will be measured in sufficient shares may be sold at vesting to discharge tax liabilities.
remaining vested shares will normally be subject to a compulsory retention period of a further three years.
The methodology used for the relative measures will rank each of the five oil majors on each measure.
Performance shares for each component will A history of vesting of the share element is shown below, reecting both vest at levels of 100%, 80% and 25% respectively, for performance demanding performance conditions and poor company performance equivalent to first, second and third place.
No shares will vest for fourth during this period.
History of performance share vesting Operating cash ow has been identied as a core measure of strategic performance of the company.
Targets will reect agreed plans and normal 100 operating assumptions.
80 The committee will determine the weightings, specic measures and 60 targets for each year to reect the strategic priorities for that year and the committees judgement of where the focus should be for the upcoming 40 period.
These will be explained in the annual report on remuneration.
20 The committee considers that a combination of quantitative and qualitative 2007-09 2008-10 2009-11 2010-12 2011-13 measures reects the long-term value creation priorities and the factors underpinning business sustainability.
The committee may exercise its judgement, in a reasonable and informed manner, to adjust vesting levels upwards or downwards if it concludes that this approach does not reect the reality of the health and performance of the business relative to its peers.
In addition the committee will review whether the level of vesting is consistent with shareholder interests.
Any adjustments are explained in the annual report on remuneration following vesting, in line with its commitment to transparency.
102 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Y Y e e a a r r 1 4 3 6 r r a a e e Y % of maximum vested Y Corporate governance Pension Executive directors are eligible to participate in the pension schemes that UK executive directors apply in their home country and which follow the national norms for Highlights structure and levels.
US executive directors One sixtieth annual accrual to a maximum Highlights of two-thirds final salary.
35% cash supplement in lieu of future service Annual accrual of 1.3% of average annual earnings generally provides accrual for those in excess of UK government limits.
UK executive directors are members of the BP pension scheme in respect Average earnings include salary and bonus.
of service prior to 1 April 2011.
The core benets under this scheme are non-contributory.
The benets include a pension accrual of one sixtieth of Pension benets in the US are provided through a combination of basic salary for each year of service, up to a maximum of two-thirds of final tax-qualied and non-qualied benefit plans, consistent with applicable basic salary and a dependants benefit of two-thirds of the members US tax regulations.
The scheme pension is not integrated with state pension The BP retirement accumulation plan US pension plan is a US benets.
Higher accrual rules are offered to employees on the payment of tax-qualied plan that features a cash balance formula and includes personal contributions.
grandfathering provisions under final average pay formulae for certain Since 1 April 2011, participants may receive a cash supplement in lieu of employees of companies acquired by BP including Amoco and Arco who future service pension accrual in the BP pension scheme.
This follows the participated in these predecessor company pension plans.
reduction in the annual allowance applicable to plans such as the BP The TNK-BP supplemental retirement plan is a lump sum benefit based pension scheme in 2011.
Some participants ceased pension accrual for on the same calculation as the benefit under the US pension plan but future service to remain within the new annual allowance.
For these reecting service and earnings at TNK-BP.
employees the cash supplement is equal to 35% of basic salary.
The BP excess compensation retirement plan excess compensation plan Until the end of March 2011, pension benets in excess of the individual provides a supplemental benefit which is the difference between a the lifetime allowance set by legislation were paid via an unapproved, benefit accrual under the US pension plan and the TNK-BP supplemental unfunded pension arrangement provided directly by the company.
From retirement plan without regard to the IRS compensation limit including for April 2011 only increases in accrued benets due to increases in salary in this purpose base salary, cash bonus and bonus deferred into a excess of the individual lifetime allowance are covered by the compulsory or voluntary award under the deferred matching element of arrangements.
the EDIP, and b the actual benefit payable under the US pension plan and The rules of the BP pension scheme were amended in 2006 to reect the the TNK-BP supplemental retirement plan, applying the IRS compensation normal retirement age of 65.
Prior to 1 December 2006, scheme members limit.
The benefit calculation under the Amoco formula includes a reduction could retire on or after age 60 without reduction.
of 5% per year if taken before age 60.
Special early retirement terms apply to executives in service on The BP supplemental executive retirement benefit plan SERB is a 1 December 2006.
If they retire between 60 and 65, they are entitled to an supplemental plan based on a target of 1.3% of final average earnings immediate unreduced pension.
If they retire between 55 and 60, they are including, for this purpose, base salary plus cash bonus and bonus entitled to an immediate unreduced pension in respect of the proportion of deferred into a compulsory or voluntary award under the deferred matching their benefit for service up to 30 November 2006, and are subject to such element of the EDIP for each year of service without regard for tax limits reduction as the scheme actuary certies in respect of the period of less benets paid under all other BP US qualied and non-qualied service after 1 December 2006.
For retirees leaving in circumstances pension arrangements.
The benefit payable under SERB is unreduced at approved by the committee, the scheme actuary has to date applied a age 60 but reduced by 5% per year if separation occurs before age 60. reduction of 3% per annum in respect of the period of service from Benets payable under this plan are unfunded and therefore paid from 1 December 2006 up to the leaving date: however a greater reduction can corporate assets.
be applied in other circumstances.
Those leaving before 55 are entitled to a deferred pension that becomes payable from 55 or later, on the basis set out above.
Irrespective of this, an individual leaving in circumstances of total incapacity is entitled to an immediate unreduced pension as from their leaving date.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 103 Scenario charts The total remuneration opportunity for executive directors is strongly performance based and weighted to the long term.
The charts below provide scenarios for the total remuneration of executive directors at different levels of performance and are calculated as prescribed in UK regulations.
The xed component in each chart includes current salary, taxable benets and pension.
The annual component reects cash bonus, and in the case of Bob Dudley the pension accruing on his bonus.
The long term includes both the deferred bonus and the performance shares.
Detailed calculation assumptions are noted to the right of the charts.
Calculation assumptions Bob Dudley $ thousand Fixed Annual Long term Minimum $20,000 76% Fixed components only t Current salary and taxable benets.
$15,000 t Pension value of one years service using current salary for US and cash in lieu for UK.
t Pension value of one years service using current salary for US and cash in lieu for UK.
Dr Brian Gilvary thousand US 1.3% x salary x 20.
Fixed Annual Long term Annual 8,000 t Cash bonus reecting on-target level of 150% of salary of which two thirds are paid in cash.
76% 6,000 t For Bob Dudley, pension value of one years service based on target bonus times 20 1.3% x 150% x salary x 20.
4,000 55% Long term t Deferred bonus reecting one third of target bonus of 150% of salary 2,000 and one-for-one match.
19% 8% 100% 26% 16% t Performance shares that vest to half maximum amounting to 2.75 Target Minimum Maximum times salary for Bob Dudley and two times salary for Iain Conn and 3,844 1,004 6,506 Dr Brian Gilvary.
Maximum Iain Conn thousand Fixed Fixed Annual Long term t Current salary and taxable benets.
8,000 t Pension value of one years service using current salary for US and cash 76% in lieu for UK.
4,000 55% Annual t Cash bonus reecting maximum of 225% of salary of which one third is paid in cash.
2,000 19% 8% 100% 26% 16% t For Bob Dudley, pension value of one years service based on maximum bonus times 20 1.3% x 225% x salary x 20.
Minimum Target Maximum 1,104 4,200 7,102 Long term t Deferred bonus reecting two thirds of maximum bonus of 225% of salary and one-for-one match.
t Performance shares that fully vest amounting to five and a half times salary for Bob Dudley and four times salary for Iain Conn and Dr Brian Gilvary.
104 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Corporate governance t Medical and dental benets, sick pay during periods of absence and tax Recruitment preparation assistance.
The committee expects any new executive directors to be engaged on t indemnification in accordance with applicable law.
terms that are consistent with the policy as described on the preceding pages.
The committee recognizes that it cannot always predict accurately t Each executive director participates in bonus or incentive arrangements the circumstances in which any new directors may be recruited.
The at the committees sole discretion.
Currently, each participates in the committee may determine that it is in the interests of the company and discretionary bonus scheme and the deferred bonus and performance shareholders to secure the services of a particular individual which may share plans as described on pages 100, 101 and 102 respectively.
require the committee to take account of the terms of that individuals Each executive director may terminate his employment by giving his existing employment and or their personal circumstances.
Accordingly, the employer 12 months written notice.
In this event, for business reasons, committee will ensure that: the employer would not necessarily hold the executive director to his full t Salary level of any new director is competitive relative to the peer group.
t Variable remuneration will be awarded within the parameters outlined on Other than in the case of Dr Brian Gilvary who became a director on pages 98-99, save that the committee may provide that an initial award 1 January 2012, the service agreements are expressed to expire at a under the EDIP within the salary multiple limits on page 98 is subject to normal retirement age of 60: however, such executive directors could not, a requirement of continued service over a specified period, rather than a under UK law, be required to retire at this or any other age following corporate performance condition.
abolition of the default retirement age.
t Where an existing employee of BP is promoted to the board, the The employer may lawfully terminate the executive directors employment company will honour all existing contractual commitments including any in the following ways: outstanding share awards or pension entitlements.
t By giving the director 12 months written notice.
t Where an individual is relocating in order to take up the role, the t Without compensation, in circumstances where the employer is entitled company may provide certain one-off benets such as reasonable to terminate for cause, as dened for the purposes of his service relocation expenses, accommodation for a period following appointment agreement.
and assistance with visa applications or other immigration issues and ongoing arrangements such as tax equalization, annual ights home, and Additionally, in the case of Iain Conn and Dr Brian Gilvary, the company housing allowance.
may lawfully terminate employment by making a lump sum payment in lieu of notice equal to 12 months base salary.
The company may elect to pay t Where an individual would be forfeiting valuable remuneration in this sum in monthly instalments rather than as a lump sum.
order to join the company, the committee may award appropriate compensation.
The committee would require reasonable evidence of The lawful termination mechanisms described above are without prejudice the nature and value of any forfeited award and would, to the employers ability in appropriate circumstances to terminate in to the extent practicable, ensure any compensation was no more breach of the notice period referred to above, and thereby to be liable for valuable than the forfeited award and that it was paid in the form of damages to the executive director.
In the event of termination by the company, each executive director may The committee would expect any new recruit to participate in the have an entitlement to compensation in respect of his statutory rights under company pension and benefit schemes that are open to senior employees employment protection legislation in the UK and potentially elsewhere.
in his home country but would have due regard to the recruits existing Where appropriate the company may also meet a directors reasonable arrangements and market norms.
legal expenses in connection with either his appointment or termination of In making any decision on any aspect of the remuneration package for a his appointment.
new recruit, the committee would balance shareholder expectations, The committee considers that its policy on termination payments arising current best practice and the requirements of any new recruit and would from the contractual provisions summarized above provides an appropriate strive not to pay more than is necessary to achieve the recruitment.
The degree of protection to the director in the event of termination and is committee would give full details of the terms of the package of any new consistent with UK market practice.
recruit in the next remuneration report.
Exit payments Service contracts Should it become necessary to terminate an executive directors Summary details of each executive directors service agreement are as employment, and therefore to determine a termination payment, the follows: committees policy would be as follows: Service Salary as at t The directors primary entitlement would be to a termination payment in agreement date 1 Jan 2014 respect of his service agreement, as set out above.
The committee will Bob Dudley 6 Apr 2009 $1,800,000 consider mitigation to reduce the termination payment to a leaving Iain Conn 22 Jul 2004 774,000 director when appropriate to do so, taking into account the Dr Brian Gilvary 22 Feb 2012 710,000 circumstances and the law governing the agreement.
Mitigation would not be applicable where a contractual payment in lieu of notice is made.
In addition, the director may be entitled to a payment in respect of his Bob Dudleys contract is with BP Corporation North America Inc.
Other potential elements are as follows: seconded to BP p. l. c. under a secondment agreement dated 15 April 2009, which has been further extended to 15 April 2019.
His secondment can be First, the committee would consider whether the director should be terminated with one months notice by either party and terminates entitled to an annual bonus in respect of the financial year in which the automatically on the termination of his service agreement.
Iain Conns and termination occurs.
Normally, any such bonus would be restricted to Dr Brian Gilvarys service agreements are with BP p. l. c. the directors actual period of service in that financial year.
Second, the committee would consider whether conditional share Each executive director is entitled to pension provision, details of which are awards held by the director under the EDIP should lapse on leaving or summarized on page 103. should, at the committees discretion, be preserved in which event Each executive director is entitled to the following contractual benets: the award would normally continue until the normal vesting date and t A company car and chauffeur for business and private use, on terms that be treated in the manner described on pages 101-102 of this report.
the company bear all normal servicing, insurance and running costs.
Any such determination will be made in accordance with the rules of Alternatively, the executive director is entitled to a car allowance in lieu.
the EDIP, as approved by shareholders.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 105 Third, if the departing director is eligible for an early retirement pension, the committee would consider, if relevant under the terms of the plan in which the director participates, the extent of any actuarial reduction that should be applied.
t In determining the overall termination arrangements, the committee would have regard to all relevant circumstances, and would therefore distinguish between types of leaver and the circumstances under which the director left the company.
This mainly relates to consideration of how discretion would be exercised in relation to conditional share awards under the EDIP.
It is also relevant where a departing director has a right to an early retirement pension.
UK directors who leave in circumstances approved by the committee may have a favourable actuarial reduction applied to their pensions which has to date been 3%.
Departing directors who leave in other circumstances are subject to a greater reduction.
t The performance of the leaving director would be taken into account in various respects.
In particular, in deciding whether to exercise discretion to preserve EDIP awards, the committee would have regard to the directors performance during the performance cycle of the relevant awards, as well as a range of other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date.
t The committee would also have regard to all other relevant factors, including consideration of whether a contractual provision in the directors arrangements complied with best practice at the time the directors employment was terminated, as well as at the time the provision was agreed to.
t A shorter vesting period for any share awards may apply on change of control.
External appointments The board supports executive directors taking up appointments outside the company to broaden their knowledge and experience.
Each executive director is permitted to accept one non-executive appointment, from which they may retain any fee.
External appointments are subject to agreement by the chairman and reported to the board.
Any external appointment must not conict with a directors duties and commitments to BP.
Details of appointments during 2013 are shown below.
Additional position held at Total Director Appointee company appointee company fees a Bob Dudley Rosneft Director 0 Iain Conn Rolls-Royce plc Senior independent 82,000 director and chairman of the ethics committee b Dr Byron Grote Unilever Audit committee Unilever PLC member 19,375 Unilever NV 22,990 a Bob Dudley holds this appointment as a result of the companys shareholding in Rosneft.
106 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
