Additional disclosures China has committed to reducing carbon intensity of GDP 40-45% that additional payments are due by BP under certain Master Vessel below 2005 levels by 2020 and increasing the share of non-fossil fuels Charter Agreements entered into in the course of the Vessels of in total energy consumption from 7.5% in 2005 to 15% by 2020.
The Opportunity Program implemented as part of the response to the countrys 12th 2011-2015 Development Programme has set the Incident.
Purported class action and individual lawsuits have also been target to reduce carbon intensity by 17% within five years, and this filed in US state and federal courts, as well as one suit in Canada, against national target has been deconstructed into provincial ones for local BP entities and or various current and former officers and directors actions.
Four emission trading pilots have begun in the cities of Beijing, alleging, among other things, shareholder derivative claims, securities Shenzhen and Shanghai and in Guangdong province.
Additional fraud claims, violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act emission trading schemes have been approved for Tianjin and ERISA and contractual and quasi-contractual claims related to the Chongqing cities as well as Hubei province.
As part of the countrys cancellation of the dividend on 16 June 2010. energy saving programme, the government also requires any operating In August 2010, many of the lawsuits pending in federal court were entity with annual energy consumption of 10 thousand tonnes of coal consolidated by the Federal Judicial Panel on Multi-district Litigation into equivalent 7ktoe a to have an energy saving target for the next five two multi-district litigation proceedings, one in federal district court in years.
A number of BP joint venture companies in China will be Houston for the securities, derivative and ERISA cases MDL 2185 and required to participate in these initiatives.
another in federal district court in New Orleans for the remaining cases For information on the steps that BP is taking in relation to climate MDL 2179. change issues and in relation to GHG regulation and for details of BPs Presentation of evidence in the first trial phase Phase 1 of a Trial of GHG reporting see Environment and society on page 45.
Liability, Limitation, Exoneration and Fault Allocation in MDL 2179 concluded on 17 April 2013, and the parties completed post-trial briefing Legal proceedings in respect of Phase 1 on 12 July 2013.
The second trial phase Phase 2, which addressed source control efforts and the amount of oil that was Proceedings relating to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill spilled into the Gulf as a result of the Incident, completed on 18 October 2013, and post-trial briefing in respect of Phase 2 is substantially BPs potential liabilities resulting from threatened, pending and potential complete.
In a further trial phase, which is yet to be scheduled, the future claims, lawsuits and enforcement actions relating to the 20 April district court will determine the amount of civil penalties arising under the 2010 explosions and fire on the semi-submersible rig Deepwater Horizon Clean Water Act based on the courts rulings as to the presence of and resulting oil spill the Incident, together with the potential cost of negligence, gross negligence or wilful misconduct in Phases 1 and 2, the implementing remedies sought in the various proceedings, cannot be courts rulings as to quantification of discharge in Phase 2 and the fully estimated at this time but they have had and could continue to have application of the penalty factors under the Clean Water Act.
For further a material adverse impact on the groups business, competitive position, information, see MDL 2179 and related matters Trial phases below.
financial performance, cash flows, prospects, liquidity, shareholder returns and or implementation of its strategic agenda, particularly in the On 3 March 2012, BP announced an agreement in principle with the US.
The potential liabilities may continue to have a material adverse Plaintiffs Steering Committee PSC in MDL 2179 to settle the effect on the groups results and financial condition.
See Financial substantial majority of legitimate private economic and property damages statements Note 2 to the financial statements for information regarding claims and exposure-based medical claims stemming from the Incident.
the financial impact of the Incident.
See MDL 2179 and related matters PSC settlements below.
BP p. l. c. BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP and various other BP On 1 June 2010, the US Department of Justice the DoJ announced that entities collectively referred to as BP are among the companies named it was conducting an investigation into the Incident encompassing as defendants in approximately 2,950 pending civil lawsuits relating to possible violations of US civil or criminal laws, and subsequently created the Incident and further actions are likely to be brought.
BPXP was lease a unified task force of federal agencies to investigate the Incident.
On operator of Mississippi Canyon, Block 252 in the Gulf of Mexico 15 November 2012, BP announced that it reached agreement with the Macondo, where the Deepwater Horizon was deployed at the time of US government, subject to court approval, to resolve all federal criminal the Incident.
The other working interest owners at the time of the charges and all claims by the US Securities and Exchange Commission Incident were Anadarko Petroleum Company Anadarko and MOEX the SEC against BP arising from the Deepwater Horizon accident, oil Offshore 2007 LLC MOEX.
The Deepwater Horizon, which was owned spill and response.
See Settlements with the DoJ and SEC below.
and operated by certain affiliates of Transocean Ltd. Transocean, sank on 22 April 2010.
The pending lawsuits and or claims arising from the MDL 2179 and related matters Incident have generally been brought in US federal and state courts.
The DoJ Action: liability limitation-, contributionand indemnity-related plaintiffs include individuals, corporations, insurers, and governmental proceedings: and Trial of Liability, Limitation, Exoneration and Fault entities and many of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The Allocation lawsuits assert, among others, claims under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 On 13 May 2010, Transocean and certain affiliates filed a complaint under OPA 90, claims for personal injury in connection with the Incident itself admiralty law in federal court in Texas seeking exoneration from or and the response to it, wrongful death, commercial and economic injury, limitation of liability as managing owners and operators of the Deepwater breach of contract and violations of statutes.
Many of the lawsuits assert Horizon.
That action the Limitation Action was consolidated with claims which are excluded from the Economic and Property Damages MDL 2179 on 24 August 2010.
Settlement Agreement discussed below, including claims for recovery The United States filed a civil complaint in MDL 2179 against BPXP and for losses allegedly resulting from the 2010 federal deepwater drilling others on 15 December 2010 the DoJ Action.
The complaint seeks a moratoria and or the related permitting process.
The lawsuits seek declaration of liability under OPA 90 and civil penalties under the Clean various remedies including compensation to injured workers, recovery for Water Act and sets forth a purported reservation of rights on behalf of commercial losses and property damage, compensation for personal the US to amend the complaint or file additional complaints seeking injuries and medical monitoring, claims for environmental damage, various remedies under various US federal laws and statutes.
See remediation costs, claims for unpaid wages, injunctive and declaratory Financial statements Note 2. relief, treble damages and punitive damages.
Purported classes of claimants include residents of the states of Louisiana, Mississippi, On 18 February 2011, Transocean filed a third-party complaint against BP, Alabama, Florida and Texas: property owners and rental agents, the US government, and other corporations involved in the Incident, fishermen and persons dependent on the fishing industry, charter boat naming those entities as formal parties in the Limitation Action.
On owners and deck hands, marina owners, gasoline distributors, shipping 20 April 2011, Transocean filed claims in the Limitation Action alleging interests, restaurant and hotel owners, cruise lines and others who are that BP had breached BP America Production Companys contract with property and or business owners alleged to have suffered economic loss: Transocean Holdings LLC by BP not agreeing to indemnify Transocean and response workers and residents claiming injuries due to exposure to against liability related to the Incident and by not paying certain invoices.
the components of oil and or chemical dispersants.
Among other claims Transocean also asserted claims against BP under state law, maritime arising from the spill response efforts, lawsuits have been filed claiming law, and OPA 90 for contribution.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 257 On 20 April 2011, BP filed claims against Cameron International damages resulting from pollution originating beneath the surface of the Corporation Cameron, Halliburton Energy Services, Inc. Halliburton, water, regardless of whether the claim results from Transoceans strict and Transocean in the DoJ Action, seeking contribution for any liability, negligence or gross negligence.
The court, however, ruled that assessments against BP under OPA 90 based on those entities fault.
On BP does not owe Transocean indemnity for such claims to the extent 20 June 2011, Cameron and Halliburton moved to dismiss BPs claims Transocean is held liable for punitive damages or for civil penalties under against them in the DoJ Action.
BPs claim against Cameron has been the Clean Water Act, or if Transocean acted with intentional or wilful resolved pursuant to settlement described below, but Halliburtons misconduct in excess of gross negligence.
The court further held that motion remains pending.
BPs obligation to defend Transocean for third-party claims does not require BP to fund Transoceans defence of third-party claims at this On 20 April 2011, BP asserted claims against Cameron, Halliburton and time, nor does it include Transoceans expenses in proving its right to Transocean in the Limitation Action.
BPs claims against Transocean indemnity.
The court deferred a final ruling on the question of whether include breach of contract, unseaworthiness of the Deepwater Horizon Transocean breached its drilling contract with BP so as to invalidate the vessel, negligence or gross negligence and or gross fault as may be contracts indemnity clause.
established at trial based upon the evidence, contribution and On 8 December 2011, the United States brought a motion for partial subrogation for costs including those arising from litigation claims resulting from the Incident, as well as a declaratory claim that Transocean summary judgment in the DoJ Action seeking, among other things, an order finding that BPXP, Transocean and Anadarko are strictly liable for a is wholly or partly at fault for the Incident and responsible for its proportionate share of the costs and damages.
BP asserted claims civil penalty under Section 311 b 7 A of the Clean Water Act.
On 22 February 2012, the judge ruled on motions filed in the DoJ Action by against Halliburton for fraud and fraudulent concealment based on Halliburtons misrepresentations to BP concerning, among other things, the United States, Anadarko, and Transocean seeking early rulings regarding the liability of BPXP, Anadarko and Transocean under OPA 90 the stability testing on the foamed cement used at the Macondo well: for negligence or, if established by the evidence at trial, gross negligence and the Clean Water Act, but limited the order to addressing the discharge of hydrocarbons occurring under the surface of the water.
based on Halliburtons performance of its professional services, including cementing and mud logging services: and for contribution and Regarding OPA 90, the judge held that BPXP and Anadarko are responsible parties under OPA 90 with regard to the subsurface subrogation for amounts that BP has paid in responding to the Incident, as well as in OPA 90 assessments and in payments to the plaintiffs.
The judge ruled that BPXP and Anadarko have joint and several liability under OPA 90 for removal costs and damages for such filed a similar complaint against Halliburton in federal court in the Southern District of Texas, Houston Division, and the action was discharge, but did not rule on whether such liability under OPA 90 is unlimited.
While the judge held that Transocean is not a responsible party transferred to MDL 2179 on 4 May 2011. under OPA 90 for subsurface discharge, the judge left open the question On 20 April 2011, Halliburton filed claims in the Limitation Action seeking of whether Transocean may be liable under OPA 90 for removal costs for indemnification from BP for claims brought against Halliburton in that such discharge as the owner operator of the Deepwater Horizon.
Halliburton also asserted a claim for negligence, gross negligence Regarding the Clean Water Act, the judge held that the subsurface and wilful misconduct against BP and others.
On 30 November 2011, discharge was from the Macondo well, rather than from the Deepwater Halliburton filed a motion for summary judgment in MDL 2179.
On Horizon, and that BPXP and Anadarko are liable for civil penalties under 21 December 2011, BP filed a cross-motion for partial summary Section 311 of the Clean Water Act as owners of the well.
Anadarko, judgment seeking an order that BP has no contractual obligation to BPXP and the United States each appealed the 22 February 2012 ruling indemnify Halliburton for fines, penalties or punitive damages resulting to the US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit the Fifth Circuit, and the from the Incident.
On 31 January 2012, the judge ruled on BPs and appeals were consolidated.
Briefing in this appeal is complete and oral Halliburtons indemnity motions, holding that BP is required to indemnify argument was heard on 4 December 2013, but no ruling has been Halliburton for third-party claims for compensatory damages resulting issued.
from pollution that did not originate from property or equipment of On 18 December 2012, Transocean filed a motion seeking an early ruling Halliburton located above the surface of the land or water, regardless of that it is not liable in connection with claims for compensatory or punitive whether the claims result from Halliburtons gross negligence.
The court, damages, or claims for contribution, brought by private, state, or local however, ruled that BP does not owe Halliburton indemnity to the extent government entities and based on the subsurface discharge of oil.
that Halliburton is held liable for punitive damages or for civil penalties Transoceans motion has been fully briefed but remains pending.
under the Clean Water Act.
The court further held that BPs obligation to defend Halliburton for third-party claims does not require BP to fund On 18 December 2012, Transocean filed a motion seeking an early ruling Halliburtons defence of third-party claims at this time, nor does it include that it is not liable in connection with punitive damages claims brought by Halliburtons expenses in proving its right to indemnity.
The court members of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Class for deferred ruling on whether BP is required to indemnify Halliburton for any a description of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement penalties or fines under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act.
It also Agreement, see below.
On 20 December 2012, Transocean filed a deferred ruling on whether Halliburton acted so as to invalidate the motion seeking an early ruling that it is not liable in connection with BPs indemnity by breaching its contract with BP, by committing fraud, or by claims for reimbursement of payments made under the Economic and committing another act that materially increased the risk to BP or Property Damages Settlement Agreement and BPs separate claims for prejudiced the rights of BP as an indemnitor.
spill-related damages, such as lost profits from the Macondo well, which claims were assigned by BP to the Economic and Property Damages On 30 May 2011, Transocean filed claims against BP in the DoJ Action Settlement Class.
On 17 January 2013, Halliburton filed motions seeking alleging that BP America Production Company had breached its contract early rulings that it is not liable in connection with punitive damages with Transocean Holdings LLC by not agreeing to indemnify Transocean claims brought by members of the Economic and Property Damages against liability related to the Incident.
Transocean also asserted claims Settlement Class: that it is not liable in connection with any contribution against BP under state law, maritime law and OPA 90 for contribution.
claim for punitive damages, whether asserted by BP or by the Economic On 1 November 2011, Transocean filed a motion for partial summary and Property Damages Settlement Class as BPs assignee: and that it is judgment on certain claims filed in the Limitation Action and the DoJ not liable in connection with claims assigned by BP to the Economic and Action between BP and Transocean, seeking an order that would bar Property Damages Settlement Class.
Transoceans and Halliburtons BPs contribution claims against Transocean and require BP to defend motions have been fully briefed but remain pending.
and indemnify Transocean against all pollution claims, including those On 11 January 2013, BP filed a motion in the DoJ Action for partial resulting from any gross negligence, and from civil fines and penalties summary judgment against the United States, seeking rulings that 1 BP sought by the government.
On 7 December 2011, BP filed a crosscollected at least 810,000 barrels from the broken riser, from the top of motion for summary judgment seeking an order that BP is not required to the blowout preventer and lower marine riser package, and from the indemnify Transocean for any civil fines and penalties sought by the choke and kill lines of the blowout preventer, all before these barrels government or for punitive damages.
On 26 January 2012, the judge reached the waters of the Gulf of Mexico, and 2 that these barrels may ruled on BPs and Transoceans indemnity motions, holding that BP is not be counted toward the maximum penalty potentially to be assessed required to indemnify Transocean for third-party claims for compensatory 258 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Additional disclosures against BPXP under Section 311 of the Clean Water Act, 33 U. S. C. The district court in MDL 2179 has wide discretion in its determination as 1321.
BP and the United States subsequently reached a stipulation, to whether a defendants conduct involved negligence or gross entered by the court on 19 February 2013, providing that 810,000 barrels negligence as well as in its determinations on the volume of oil spilled of oil were collected without coming into contact with ambient Gulf and the application of statutory penalty factors.
waters and that those barrels are not to be used in calculating the MOEX, Anadarko and Cameron settlements statutory maximum penalty under the Clean Water Act.
BP announced settlement agreements in respect of all claims related to On 1 March 2013, Transocean sought the district courts leave to the Incident with MOEX, Anadarko and Cameron on 20 May 2011, supplement its pleadings to include an affirmative defence asserting that 17 October 2011 and 16 December 2011, respectively.
Under the BPs representations regarding the flow rate at the Macondo well settlement agreement with MOEX, MOEX paid BP $1.065 billion and also constituted an intervening and superseding cause of the oil spill for the agreed to transfer all of its 10% interest in the MC252 lease to BP.
Under majority of its duration.
Transoceans defence claims that BP fraudulently the settlement agreement with Anadarko, Anadarko paid BP $4 billion misrepresented and concealed information regarding the flow rate at the and also agreed to transfer all of its 25% interest in the MC252 lease to Macondo well in late April and May 2010, as well as the likelihood of BP.
The settlement agreement with Anadarko grants Anadarko the success of a top-kill approach to stopping the flow of hydrocarbons from opportunity for a 12.5% participation in certain future recoveries from the well, and thus prevented the implementation of alternative means of third parties and certain insurance proceeds in the event that such source control that Transocean asserts could have capped the well as recoveries and proceeds exceed $1.5 billion in aggregate.
Also on 1 March 2013, Halliburton filed a motion for payments to Anadarko are capped at a total of $1 billion.
BP agreed to leave to amend its answers to assert a similar defence.
On 4 March indemnify MOEX, Anadarko and Cameron for certain claims arising from 2013, the court granted Transoceans motion to file amended answers, the Incident excluding civil, criminal or administrative fines and penalties, and it granted Halliburtons motion the following day.
claims for punitive damages, and certain other claims.
The settlement Trial phases agreements with MOEX, Anadarko and Cameron are not an admission of To address certain issues asserted in or relevant to the claims, liability by any party regarding the Incident.
counterclaims, cross-claims, third-party claims, and comparative fault PSC settlements defences raised in the DoJ Action and the Limitation Action, a Trial of The Economic and Property Damages Settlement resolves certain Liability, Limitation, Exoneration and Fault Allocation commenced in economic and property damage claims, and the Medical Benefits Class MDL 2179 on 25 February 2013.
The presentation of evidence in the first Action Settlement resolves certain medical claims by response workers phase of the trial Phase 1, which completed on 17 April 2013, and certain Gulf Coast residents.
The Economic and Property Damages addressed issues arising out of the conduct of various parties allegedly Settlement includes a $2.3 billion BP commitment to help resolve relevant to the loss of well control at the Macondo well, the ensuing fire economic loss claims related to the Gulf seafood industry for further and explosion on the Deepwater Horizon on 20 April 2010, the sinking of information, see PSC Settlements Seafood Compensation Fund below the vessel on 22 April 2010 and the initiation of the release of oil from the and a $57 million fund to support continued advertising that promotes Gulf Deepwater Horizon or the Macondo well during those time periods, Coast tourism.
It also resolves property damage in certain areas along the including whether BP or any other party was grossly negligent.
The Gulf Coast, as well as claims for additional payments under certain Master parties completed court-ordered post-trial briefing in respect of Phase 1 Vessel Charter Agreements entered into in the course of the Vessels of on 12 July 2013.
On 13 August 2013, BP moved for leave to supplement Opportunity Program implemented as part of the response to the Incident.
the Phase 1 record to include Halliburtons agreement to plead guilty to The Economic and Property Damages Settlement does not include claims destroying evidence relating to Halliburtons internal examination of the made against BP by the DoJ or other federal agencies including under the Incident and the US governments press release announcing the Clean Water Act and for Natural Resource Damages under OPA 90 or by Halliburton plea agreement.
The US government, the Plaintiffs Steering the states and local governments.
Also excluded are certain other claims Committee and Halliburton have also submitted briefs addressing the against BP, such as securities and shareholder claims pending in MDL implications of Halliburtons plea agreement.
The district court has yet to 2185, and claims based solely on the deepwater drilling moratorium and or rule on BPs motion.
BP is not currently aware of the timing of the district the related permitting process.
courts ruling in respect of issues addressed in Phase 1 which could be at any time.
The Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement involves payments to qualifying class members based on a matrix for certain Specified Physical The second trial phase Phase 2, which commenced on 30 September Conditions, as well as a 21-year Periodic Medical Consultation Program 2013, addressed i source control issues pertaining to the conduct or for qualifying class members.
Payments of claims under the Medical inaction of BP, Transocean or other relevant parties regarding stopping Benefits Class Action Settlement could not begin until after the the release of hydrocarbons stemming from the Incident from 22 April agreements 12 February 2014 Effective Date, being the day after the 2010 through to approximately 19 September 2010, and ii quantification resolution of all appeals from the final approval of the Medical Benefits of discharge issues pertaining to the amount of oil actually released into Class Action Settlement, though class members were permitted to file the Gulf of Mexico as a result of the Incident from the time when these claim forms in advance of the Effective Date to facilitate administration of releases began until the Macondo well was capped on approximately the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement upon the Effective Date.
15 July 2010 and then permanently cemented shut on approximately The deadline for submitting claims under the Medical Benefits Class 19 September 2010.
Post-trial briefing in respect of Phase 2 is Action Settlement is one year after the Effective Date.
On 25 January 2014, Transocean filed a motion to also provides that class members claiming Later-Manifested Physical supplement the Phase 2 record with certain testimony that occurred in a Conditions may pursue their claims through a mediation litigation separate trial of a former BP employee related to the Incident.
The district process, but waive, among other things, the right to seek punitive court has yet to rule on this motion.
BP is not currently aware of the damages.
Consistent with its commitment to the Gulf, BP has also timing of the district courts ruling in respect of issues addressed in agreed as part of the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement to Phase 2 which could be at any time.
provide $105 million to the Gulf Region Health Outreach Program to In a further trial phase, which is yet to be scheduled, the district court will improve the availability, scope and quality of healthcare in certain Gulf determine the amount of civil penalties arising under the Clean Water Act Coast communities.
This healthcare outreach programme will be based on the courts rulings as to the presence of negligence, gross available to, and is intended to benefit, class members and other negligence or wilful misconduct in Phases 1 and 2, the courts rulings as individuals in those communities.
BP has already begun funding the to quantification of discharge in Phase 2 and the application of the penalty projects sponsored by this programme.
factors under the Clean Water Act.
The district court set a status conference for 21 March 2014 to address case management issues Each agreement provides that class members will be compensated for relating to this phase of the litigation.
The district court also ordered the their claims on a claims-made basis, according to agreed compensation parties, on a schedule to be completed prior to 21 March, to serve initial protocols in separate court-supervised claims processes.
The disclosures and written discovery requests, to provide proposed compensation protocols under the Economic and Property Damages stipulations, and to file submissions regarding potential evidence to be Settlement provide for the payment of class members economic losses adduced at a penalty phase trial, as well as certain other issues.
and property damages related to the oil spill.
In addition many economic BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 259 and property damages class members will receive payments based on Appellants appealed from the district courts approval of that settlement negotiated risk transfer premiums, which are multiplication factors to the Fifth Circuit.
Additionally, a coalition of fishing and community designed, in part, to compensate claimants for potential future damages groups the Coalition appealed to the Fifth Circuit from an order of the that are not currently known, relating to the Incident.
The Economic and district court denying it permission to intervene in the civil action serving Property Damages Settlement and the Medical Benefits Class Action as the vehicle for the Economic and Property Damages Settlement and Settlement are not an admission of liability by BP.
The settlements are further denying it permission to take discovery regarding the fairness of uncapped except for economic loss claims related to the Gulf seafood that settlement.
On 11 November 2013, the Fifth Circuit affirmed the industry under the Economic and Property Damages Settlement and the district courts rulings in respect of the Coalition.
On 10 January 2014, a $105 million to be provided to the Gulf Region Health Outreach Program panel of the Fifth Circuit affirmed the district courts approval of the under the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement.
Economic and Property Damages Settlement but left to another panel of the Fifth Circuit the business economic loss panel, discussed further All class member settlements under the settlement agreements are below the question of how to interpret the Economic and Property payable under the terms of the Trust.
Other costs to be paid from the Damages Settlement, including the meaning of the causation Trust include state and local government claims, state and local response requirements of that agreement.
BP and several Appellants have filed costs, natural resource damages and related claims, and final judgments petitions requesting that all the active judges of the Fifth Circuit review and settlements.
As at 31 December 2013, the aggregate cash balances the decision to uphold approval of the settlement.
in the Trust and the qualified settlement funds amounted to $6.7 billion, including $1.2 billion remaining in the seafood compensation fund which PSC settlements Deepwater Horizon Court Supervised Settlement has yet to be distributed, and $0.9 billion held for natural resource Program DHCSSP and interpretation of the Economic and Property damage early restoration.
Should the cash balances in the Trust not be Damages Settlement Agreement sufficient, payments in respect of legitimate claims and other costs will The DHCSSP, the claims facility operating under the framework be made directly by BP.
See Financial statements Note 2. established by the Economic and Property Damages Settlement, commenced operation on 4 June 2012 under the oversight of Claims The economic and property damages claims process is under court Administrator Patrick Juneau.
supervision through the settlement claims process established by the Economic and Property Damages Settlement.
Under the Economic and As part of its monitoring of payments made by the court-supervised Property Damages Settlement, class members release and dismiss their claims processes operated by the DHCSSP, BP identified multiple claims against BP not expressly reserved by that agreement.
The business economic loss claim determinations that appeared to result Economic and Property Damages Settlement also provides that, to the from an interpretation of the Economic and Property Damages extent permitted by law, BP assigns to the PSC certain of its claims, Settlement Agreement by that settlements claims administrator that BP rights and recoveries against Transocean and Halliburton for damages believed was incorrect.
This interpretation produced a higher number and with protections such that Transocean and Halliburton cannot pass those value of awards than the interpretation BP used in making its initial damages through to BP.
Under the Medical Benefits Class Action estimate of the total cost of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement, class members release and dismiss their claims against BP Settlement.
Pursuant to the mechanisms in the Economic and Property covered by that settlement, except that class members do not release Damages Settlement Agreement, the claims administrator sought claims for Later-Manifested Physical Conditions.
clarification on this matter from the district court in MDL 2179 and on 5 March 2013, the district court affirmed the claims administrators On 24 April 2013, the plaintiffs in two actions arising from the Incident filed interpretation of the agreement and rejected BPs position as it relates to a motion asking the Federal Judicial Panel on Multi-district Litigation to business economic loss claims the March Ruling.
create new multi-district litigation proceedings for certain claims not covered by the two class settlements entered into between BP and the BP appealed the district courts March Ruling and related rulings to the PSC.
BP and other defendants opposed the motion and on 9 August 2013 Fifth Circuit.
On 2 October 2013, the business economic loss panel of the the Federal Judicial Panel on Multi-district Litigation denied the motion.
Fifth Circuit by a 2 to 1 vote reversed the district courts denial of BPs motion for a preliminary injunction and the district courts order affirming PSC settlements appeals the claims administrators interpretation of the settlement, remanded the Under US federal law, there is an established procedure for determining case for further proceedings and ordered the district court to enter a the fairness, reasonableness and adequacy of class action settlements.
narrowly-tailored injunction that suspends payment to claimants Pursuant to this procedure, an extensive notice programme to the public affected by the misinterpretation issue and who do not have actual injury was implemented to explain the settlement agreements and class traceable to loss from the Deepwater Horizon accident.
The business members rights, including the right to opt out of the classes, and the economic loss panel also retained jurisdiction to review the district processes for making claims.
The court conducted a fairness hearing on courts conclusions on remand.
8 November 2012 in which to consider, among other things, whether to grant final approval of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement On 18 October 2013, the district court issued a preliminary injunction and the Medical Benefits Class Action Settlement, whether to certify the that, amongst other things, required the claims administrator to classes for settlement purposes only, and the merits of any objections to temporarily suspend payments of business economic loss claims other the settlement agreements.
On 21 November 2012, the parties to the than those claims supported by sufficiently matched accrual-basis settlement filed a list of 13,123 individuals and entities who had accounting or any other business economic loss claim for which the submitted timely requests to opt out of the Economic and Property claims administrator determines that the matching of revenue and Damages Settlement Class and 1,638 individuals who had submitted expenses is not an issue.
On 25 October 2013, the claims administrator timely requests to opt out of the Medical Benefits Settlement Class.
On provided a declaration outlining the criteria that the claims administrators 16 November 2012, the court extended the deadline from 5 November office will use to determine the eligibility of claims for payment.
In orders 2012 to 15 December 2012 for such excluded persons or entities to dated 18 October 2013, 15 November 2013, and 22 November 2013, the request revocation of their requests to opt out of the settlement.
As a district court held that causation i. e. whether the claims administrator result of such revocations, the number of opt-outs for the Economic and could properly pay business economic loss claimants whose injuries are Property Damages Settlement and the Medical Benefits Class Action not traceable to the spill was not an issue for consideration on remand.
Settlement is fewer than those reported figures.
On 21 November 2013, BP filed an emergency motion to enforce the business economic loss panels 2 October 2013 judgment and to enjoin Following the fairness hearing, the Economic and Property Damages any further payments to the business economic loss claimants whose Settlement was approved by the district court in a final order and injuries are not traceable to the spill.
On 2 December 2013, the business judgment on 21 December 2012, and the Medical Benefits Class Action economic loss panel of the Fifth Circuit granted BPs motion and ordered Settlement was approved in a final order and judgment on 11 January that the issue of causation again be remanded for expeditious 2013. consideration and resolution in crafting [a] stay tailored so that those Subsequent to the district courts final order and judgment approving the who experienced actual injury traceable to loss from the Deepwater Economic and Property Damages Settlement, groups of purported Horizon accident continue to receive recovery but those who did not do members of the Economic and Property Damages Settlement Class the not receive their payments until this case is fully heard and decided 260 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Additional disclosures through the judicial process.
On 5 December 2013, the district court that BP relied on Mr. Wattss representations when it agreed to pay amended its preliminary injunction related to business economic loss $2.3 billion to the Seafood Compensation Fund the Fund, which was claims to temporarily suspend the issuance of final determination notices established under the Economic and Property Damages Settlement to and payments of business economic loss claims, pending resolution of compensate those who earn their livelihood from Gulf waters and were the business economic loss issues that are the subject of the pending directly affected by the spill, and that the Economic and Property remand.
Damages Class stands to benefit unjustly from the full distribution of the money remaining in the Fund.
In addition, BP filed two motions asking On 24 December 2013, the district court ruled on the issues remanded to the district court to suspend further distributions from the Fund and to it by the business economic loss panel of the Fifth Circuit, ordering that determine the extent of the fraud and what portion, if any, of the Fund the claims administrator, in administering business economic loss claims, should be returned as a result.
On 17 January 2014, Mr Watts filed a must match revenue with the variable expenses incurred by claimants in motion to stay the litigation pending a parallel criminal investigation and conducting their business, even where the revenues and expenses were the PSC also filed a brief opposing BPs motion seeking an injunction.
On recorded at different times.
The district court assigned to the claims 26 February 2014, the district court granted Mr Wattss motion to stay administrator the development of more detailed matching requirements.
the litigation and denied BPs motion to suspend further distributions, on On 12 February 2014, the claims administrator issued a draft policy the basis that no further payment from the Fund is imminent.
The district addressing the matching of revenue and expenses for business court deferred ruling on BPs motion seeking to determine the extent of economic loss claims.
The parties have made written submissions on the the fraud and what portion, if any, of the seafood fund should be returned draft policy and the claims administrator will issue a final policy to which as a result.
BP and the PSC have the right to object and seek review by the district court.
As to the issue of causation, the district court ruled that the State and local civil claims, including under OPA 90 Economic and Property Damages Settlement Agreement contained no On 12 August 2010, the State of Alabama filed a lawsuit seeking causation requirement beyond the revenue and related tests set out in an damages for alleged economic and environmental harms, including exhibit to that agreement, and that BP was judicially estopped from natural resource damages, civil penalties under state law, declaratory and arguing otherwise.
The district court also held that the absence of a injunctive relief, and punitive damages as a result of the Incident.
On further causation requirement does not defeat class certification nor 3 March 2011, the State of Louisiana filed a lawsuit to declare various BP invalidate the settlement under the federal class certification rule or entities as well as other entities liable for removal costs and damages, Article III of the US Constitution.
On 26 December 2013, BP filed a including natural resource damages under federal and state law, to motion to consolidate that appeal with the related appeals pending recover civil penalties, attorneys fees and response costs under state before the business economic loss panel of the Fifth Circuit.
BP law, and to recover for alleged negligence, nuisance, trespass, fraudulent subsequently filed a renewed motion for a permanent injunction that concealment and negligent misrepresentation of material facts regarding would prevent the claims administrator from making awards to claimants safety procedures and BPs and other defendants ability to manage the whose alleged injuries are not traceable to the spill and a motion to oil spill, unjust enrichment from economic and other damages to the expedite the courts resolution of that renewed motion.
On 3 March State of Louisiana and its citizens, and punitive damages.
2014, the business economic loss panel in a 2 to 1 decision affirmed the On 10 December 2010, the Mississippi Department of Environmental district courts ruling on causation and denied BPs motion for a Quality issued a Complaint and Notice of Violation alleging violations of permanent injunction.
BP is considering its appeal options, including a several state environmental statutes.
potential petition that all the active judges of the Fifth Circuit review the 3 The Louisiana Department of Environmental Quality has issued an March decision.
Under the terms of the business economic loss panels administrative order seeking environmental civil penalties and other relief ruling, the injunction temporarily suspending issuance of final under state law.
On 23 September 2011, BP removed this matter to determination notices and payments of business economic loss claims federal district court, and it has been consolidated with MDL 2179. will be lifted when the matter is transferred back to the district court: the timing of this would be affected by the status of any such petition by BP.
District Attorneys of 11 parishes in the State of Louisiana have filed suits under state wildlife statutes seeking penalties for damage to wildlife as a For more information about BPs current estimate of the total cost of the result of the Incident.
On 9 December 2011 and 28 December 2011, the PSC settlements, see Financial Statements Note 2. district court in MDL 2179 granted BPs motions to dismiss the District PSC settlements investigation of the DHCSSP Attorneys complaints, holding that those claims are pre-empted by the On 2 July 2013, the district court in MDL 2179 appointed former federal Clean Water Act.
All 11 of the District Attorneys of parishes in the State district court judge Louis Freeh as Special Master to lead an independent of Louisiana filed notices of appeal.
The State of Alabamas attempt to investigation of the DHCSSP in connection with allegations of potential intervene in the case was denied.
Since May 2012, amicus briefs have ethical violations or misconduct within the DHCSSP.
On 6 September been filed in those appeals by the states of Alabama, Louisiana, and 2013, Judge Freeh submitted a written report to the district court in Mississippi.
Oral argument was held on 5 March 2013 and the Fifth which he presented his findings that the conduct of two attorneys in the Circuit affirmed the district courts ruling on 24 February 2014. office of the claims administrator may have violated federal criminal On 14 November 2011, the district court in MDL 2179 granted in part statutes regarding fraud, money laundering, conspiracy or perjury.
In an BPs motion to dismiss the complaints filed by the states of Alabama and order issued the same day, the court instructed Judge Freeh to promptly Louisiana.
The courts order dismissed the states claims brought under recommend, design, and test enhanced internal compliance, antistate law, including claims for civil penalties and the State of Louisianas corruption, anti-fraud and conflicts of interest policies and procedures, request for a declaratory judgment under the Louisiana Oil Spill and assist the claims administrator in the implementation of such policies Prevention and Response Act, holding that those claims were preand procedures.
On 23 September 2013, BP filed a response to Judge empted by federal law.
It also dismissed the State of Louisianas claims Freehs report and requested that the court enter a preliminary injunction of nuisance and trespass under general maritime law.
The courts order temporarily suspending all payments from the DHCSSP until such time further held that the states have stated claims for negligence and as improved anti-fraud and other efficiency controls are put in place at the products liability under general maritime law, have sufficiently alleged DHCSSP to the satisfaction of Judge Freeh, the Claims Administrator, presentment of their claims under OPA 90 and may seek punitive and the court.
The court has not yet ruled on BPs request for a damages under general maritime law.
On 17 January 2014, Judge Freeh submitted a second written report that described the behaviour at the DHCSSP that On 9 December 2011, the district court in MDL 2179 granted in part BPs led to the resignations of senior staff members.
motion to dismiss a master complaint brought on behalf of local government entities.
The courts order dismissed the plaintiffs state law PSC settlements Seafood Compensation Fund claims and limited the types of maritime law claims the plaintiffs may On 17 December 2013, BP filed a civil lawsuit in MDL 2179 against pursue, but also held that the plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged former PSC lawyer Mikal C. Watts, accusing him of having fraudulently presentment of their claims under OPA 90 and that certain local claimed to represent more than 40,000 deckhands who allegedly government entity claimants may seek punitive damages under general suffered economic injuries as a result of the Incident.
BPs action alleges maritime law.
The court did not, however, lift an earlier stay on the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 261 underlying individual complaints raising those claims or otherwise apply will come from the $20-billion trust fund.
As of December 2013, BP and his dismissal of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
the trustees had reached agreement, or agreement in principle, on a total of 54 early restoration projects that are expected to cost In January 2013, the states of Alabama, Mississippi and Florida approximately $698 million.
These include 10 projects that are already in submitted or asserted claims to BP under OPA 90 for alleged losses place or under way, and 44 projects that are subject to a further including economic losses and property damage as a result of the regulatory review and public comment process and further trustee Incident.
BP is evaluating these claims.
The states of Louisiana and Texas approval before they may proceed.
have also asserted similar claims.
The amounts claimed, certain of which include punitive damages or other multipliers, are very substantial.
Other civil complaints However, BP considers these claims unsubstantiated and the On 26 August 2011, the district court in MDL 2179 granted in part BPs methodologies used to calculate these claims to be seriously flawed, not motion to dismiss a master complaint raising claims for economic loss by supported by OPA 90, not supported by documentation, and to private plaintiffs, dismissing the plaintiffs state law claims and limiting substantially overstate the claims.
Similar claims have also been the types of maritime law claims the plaintiffs may pursue, but also held submitted by various local government entities and a foreign that certain classes of claimants may seek punitive damages under government.
These claims under OPA 90 are substantial in aggregate, general maritime law.
The court did not, however, lift an earlier stay on and more claims are expected to be submitted.
The amounts alleged in the underlying individual complaints raising those claims or otherwise the submissions for state and local government claims total apply its dismissal of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
BP will defend vigorously against these claims On 30 September 2011, the court granted in part BPs motion to dismiss if adjudicated at trial.
Certain of these states including the states of a master complaint asserting personal injury claims on behalf of persons Alabama, Florida, Texas and Mississippi, as described below and local exposed to crude oil or chemical dispersants, dismissing the plaintiffs government entities have filed civil lawsuits that pertain to claims state law claims, claims by seamen for punitive damages, claims for asserted by them under their earlier OPA 90 submissions to BP.
medical monitoring damages by asymptomatic plaintiffs, claims for battery and nuisance under maritime law, and claims alleging negligence In April 2013, the states of Alabama, Florida, and Mississippi each filed per se.
As with its other rulings on motions to dismiss master new actions against BP related to the Incident, which have been complaints, the court did not lift an earlier stay on the underlying consolidated with MDL 2179.
On 19 April 2013, the State of Alabama individual complaints raising those claims or otherwise apply its dismissal filed a new action against BP alleging general maritime law claims of of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
negligence, gross negligence, and wilful misconduct: claims under OPA 90 seeking damages for removal costs, natural resource damages, Citizens groups have also filed either lawsuits or notices of intent to file property damage, lost tax and other revenue, and damages for providing lawsuits seeking civil penalties and injunctive relief under the Clean increased public services during or after removal activities: and various Water Act and other environmental statutes.
On 16 June 2011, the state law claims.
The State of Alabamas complaint also seeks punitive district court in MDL 2179 granted BPs motion to dismiss a master damages.
complaint raising claims for injunctive relief under various federal environmental statutes brought by various citizens groups and others.
On 20 April 2013, the State of Florida filed suit against BP and Halliburton The court did not, however, lift an earlier stay on the underlying individual in federal court in Florida, and its case has also been transferred to MDL complaints raising those claims for injunctive relief or otherwise apply its 2179.
Floridas complaint alleges general maritime law claims for dismissal of the master complaint to those individual complaints.
In negligence and gross negligence: OPA 90 claims for alleged lost tax addition, a different set of environmental groups filed a motion to revenue and other economic damages: and various state law claims.
reconsider dismissal of their Endangered Species Act claims on 14 July Florida also seeks punitive damages.
The State of Mississippi filed both federal court and state court On 31 January 2012, the district court in MDL 2179, on motion by the complaints in Mississippi against BP in April 2013.
Mississippis federal Center for Biological Diversity, entered final judgment on the basis of the court complaint alleges OPA 90 claims against BP, Transocean, and 16 June 2011 order with respect to two actions brought against BP by Anadarko for natural resource damages, property damage, lost tax that plaintiff.
On 2 February 2012, the Center for Biological Diversity filed revenue, and damages for providing increased public services during or a notice of appeal of both actions to the Fifth Circuit.
Following oral after removal activities.
It asserts general maritime law claims for argument, the Fifth Circuit ruled in BPs favour on 9 January 2013 in negligence and gross negligence against Halliburton only.
Mississippis virtually all respects, though it remanded the Center for Biological state court complaint alleges various state law claims, including Diversitys claim under the Emergency Planning and Community Right to negligence, gross negligence, and willful misconduct.
Both Mississippi Know Act EPCRA to the district court.
On 22 January 2013, the Center complaints seek punitive damages.
The State of Mississippis federal for Biological Diversity filed a Petition for Panel Rehearing in the Fifth court action and state court action have both been consolidated with Circuit, which was denied on 4 February 2013.
In January 2014, the MDL 2179. district court in MDL 2179 set a schedule for proceedings on remand of On 17 May 2013, the State of Texas filed suit against BP and others in the EPCRA claim under which limited discovery is under way, after which federal court in Texas.
Its complaint asserts claims under OPA 90 for the parties may file cross-motions for summary judgment to be fully natural resource damages and lost sales tax and state park revenue: briefed by 19 May 2014. claims for natural resource damages under the Comprehensive On 11 July 2012, BP filed motions to dismiss several categories of claims Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act CERCLA : and in MDL 2179 that were not covered by the Economic and Property claims for natural resource damages, cost recovery, civil penalties, and Damages Settlement.
On 1 October 2012, the court granted BPs economic damages under state environmental statutes.
The State of motion, dismissing 1 claims alleging a reduction in the value of real Texass action has been consolidated with MDL 2179. property caused by the oil spill or other contaminant where the property On 14 January 2014, the district court in MDL 2179 set a briefing was not physically touched by the oil and the property was not sold: schedule, to be completed by 28 March 2014, for BPs motion to strike 2 claims by or on behalf of entities marketing BP-branded fuels that they the State of Alabamas jury trial demand as to its claim for compensatory have suffered damages, including loss of business, income, and profits, damages under OPA 90 which BP then filed on 14 February 2014. as a result of the loss of value to the BP brand or name: and 3 claims by or on behalf of recreational fishermen, recreational divers, beachgoers, On 5 March 2014, the State of Florida filed a lawsuit to declare various recreational boaters, and similar claimants, that they have suffered BP entities and other entities liable for removal costs and natural damages that include loss of enjoyment of life from the inability to use of resource damages.
the Gulf of Mexico for recreation and amusement purposes.
The judge Agreement for early natural resource restoration did not, however, lift an earlier stay on the underlying individual On 21 April 2011, BP announced an agreement with natural resource complaints raising those claims or otherwise apply his dismissal of those trustees for the US and five Gulf Coast states, providing for up to categories of claims to those individual complaints.
This order was $1 billion to be spent on early restoration projects to address natural appealed to the Fifth Circuit, but the appeal was ultimately dismissed on resource injuries resulting from the Incident.
Funding for these projects 14 May 2013 for lack of jurisdiction.
262 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Additional disclosures Halliburton lawsuits indemnity in the drilling contract between BP and Transocean.
On On 19 April 2011, Halliburton filed a lawsuit in Texas state court seeking 29 August 2013, the Fifth Circuit withdrew its 1 March 2013 opinion and indemnification from BPXP for certain tort and pollution-related liabilities certified two questions of Texas law at issue in the appeal to the resulting from the Incident.
On 3 May 2011, BPXP removed Halliburtons Supreme Court of Texas.
The Supreme Court of Texas accepted the case to federal court, and on 9 August 2011, the action was transferred certification.
Briefing is expected to be completed on 10 March 2014, and to MDL 2179. oral argument has not yet been scheduled.
On 1 September 2011, Halliburton filed an additional lawsuit against BP False Claims Act actions in Texas state court alleging that BP did not identify the existence of a BP is aware that actions have been or may be brought under the Qui Tam purported hydrocarbon zone at the Macondo well to Halliburton in whistle-blower provisions of the False Claims Act FCA.
On connection with Halliburtons cement work performed before the 17 December 2012, the court ordered unsealed one complaint that had Incident and that BP has concealed the existence of this purported been filed in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana by hydrocarbon zone following the Incident.
Halliburton claims that the an individual under the FCAs Qui Tam provisions.
The complaint alleged alleged failure to identify this information has harmed its business that BP and another defendant had made false reports and certifications ventures and reputation and resulted in lost profits and other damages.
of the amount of oil released into the Gulf of Mexico following the On 7 February 2012, the lawsuit was transferred to MDL 2179.
On 17 December 2012, the DoJ filed with the court a notice that the DoJ elected to decline to intervene in the action.
On 31 January RICO lawsuits 2013, the complaint was transferred to MDL 2179 and remains stayed.
BP has been named in several lawsuits alleging claims under the Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act RICO.
On 15 July MDL 2185 and other securities-related litigation 2011, the district court granted BPs motion to dismiss a master Since the Incident, shareholders have sued BP and various of its current complaint raising RICO claims against BP.
The courts order dismissed and former officers and directors asserting shareholder derivative claims the claims of the plaintiffs in four RICO cases encompassed by the and class and individual claims.
Many of these lawsuits have been master complaint.
consolidated or co-ordinated in federal district court in Houston Non-US government lawsuits MDL 2185.
On 15 September 2010, three Mexican states bordering the Gulf of Shareholder derivative litigation Mexico Veracruz, Quintana Roo, and Tamaulipas filed lawsuits in federal Shareholder derivative lawsuits related to the Incident have been filed in court in Texas against several BP entities.
These lawsuits were US federal and state courts against various current and former officers subsequently transferred to MDL 2179 on 4 November 2010.
These and directors of BP alleging, among other things, breach of fiduciary duty, lawsuits allege that the Incident harmed their tourism, fishing, and gross mismanagement, abuse of control and waste of corporate assets.
commercial shipping industries resulting in, among other things, On 15 September 2011, the district court in MDL 2185 granted BPs diminished tax revenue, damaged natural resources and the motion to dismiss the pending consolidated shareholder derivative environment, and caused the states to incur expenses in preparing a litigation on the grounds that the courts of England are the appropriate response to the Incident.
On 9 December 2011, the district court in MDL forum for the litigation.
On 8 December 2011, a final judgment was 2179 granted in part BPs motion to dismiss the three Mexican states entered dismissing the shareholder derivative case and, on 3 January complaints, dismissing their claims under OPA 90 and for nuisance and 2012, one of the derivative plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal to the Fifth negligence per se, and preserving their claims for negligence and gross Circuit.
On 16 January 2013, the Fifth Circuit affirmed dismissal of the negligence only to the extent there has been a physical injury to a action.
All of the state court derivative actions have been dismissed proprietary interest of the states.
BP, other defendants and the three based on the final outcome of the federal case.
Mexican states filed cross-motions for summary judgment on 4 January 2013 on the issue of whether the Mexican states have a proprietary Securities class action interest in the matters asserted in their complaints.
The district court On 13 February 2012, the district court in MDL 2185 issued two heard oral argument on the cross-motions on 27 June 2013, and on decisions on the defendants motions to dismiss the two consolidated 6 September 2013 the court granted defendants motions.
On securities fraud complaints filed on behalf of purported classes of BP 12 September 2013, the court issued a final judgment dismissing the ordinary shareholders and ADS holders.
The court dismissed all of the three Mexican states claims with prejudice.
On 4 October 2013, the claims of the ordinary shareholders, dismissed the claims of the lead three Mexican states filed notices of appeal from the judgment to the class of ADS holders against most of the individual defendants while Fifth Circuit.
The Mexican states opening brief in the appeal is due on holding that a subset of the claims against two individual defendants and 31 March 2014. the corporate defendants could proceed, and dismissed all of the claims of a smaller purported subclass with leave to re-plead in 20 days.
On On 5 April 2011, the State of Yucatan submitted a claim to the Gulf Coast 2 April 2012, the plaintiffs in the lead class and subclass filed an amended Claims Facility GCCF alleging potential damage to its natural resources consolidated complaint with claims based on 1 the 12 alleged and environment, and seeking to recover the cost of assessing the misstatements that the court held were actionable in its February 2012 alleged damage.
On 18 September 2013, the State of Yucatan filed suit order on BPs motion to dismiss the earlier complaints: and 2 13 alleged against BP in federal court in Florida, and, on 13 December 2013, its misstatements concerning BPs operating management system that the action was transferred to MDL 2179. judge either rejected with leave to re-plead or did not address in his On 19 April 2013, the Mexican federal government filed a civil action February decisions.
On 2 May 2012, defendants moved to dismiss the against BP and others in MDL 2179.
The complaint seeks a claims based on the 13 statements in the amended complaint that the determination that each defendant bears liability under OPA 90 for judge did not already rule are actionable.
On 6 February 2013, the court damages that include the costs of responding to the spill: natural granted in part this motion to dismiss, rejecting the plaintiffs claims resource damages allegedly recoverable by Mexico as an OPA 90 based on 10 of the 17 statements at issue in the motion and also trustee: and the net loss of taxes, royalties, fees, or net profits.
dismissing all claims against former BP employee Andrew Inglis.
On 6 December 2013, the court denied the plaintiffs motion for class Insurance-related matters certification and gave the plaintiffs 30 days to renew that motion, and the On 1 March 2012, the district court in MDL 2179 issued a partial final plaintiffs renewed their motion on 6 January 2014.
Briefing on the judgment dismissing with prejudice certain claims by BP, Anadarko and plaintiffs renewed motion is scheduled to complete on 10 March 2014 MOEX for additional insured coverage under insurance policies issued to and a hearing on this motion is scheduled for 21 April 2014.
On Transocean for the sub-surface pollution liabilities BP, Anadarko and 20 December 2013, the court revised the schedule for the action and set MOEX have incurred and will incur with respect to the Macondo well oil a trial date for 14 October 2014. release.
BP filed a notice of appeal from the district courts judgment to the Fifth Circuit and on 1 March 2013, the Fifth Circuit reversed the Individual securities litigation district courts judgment, rejecting the district courts ruling that the In April and May 2012, six cases three of which were consolidated into insurance that BP is entitled to receive as an additional insured under the one action were filed in state and federal courts by one or more state, Transocean insurance policies at issue is limited to the scope of the county or municipal pension funds against BP entities and several current BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 263 and former officers and directors seeking damages for alleged losses to court approval, to resolve all federal criminal charges and all claims by those funds suffered because of their purchases of BP ordinary shares the SEC against BP arising from the Deepwater Horizon accident, oil spill and, in two cases, ADSs.
The funds assert various state law and federal and response.
From July 2012 to November 2013, 14 additional cases were On 29 January 2013, the US District Court for the Eastern District of filed in Texas state and federal courts later consolidated into 11 actions Louisiana accepted BPs pleas regarding the federal criminal charges, and by pension or investment funds or advisers against BP entities and BP was sentenced in connection with the criminal plea agreement.
BP current and former officers and directors, asserting state law and other pleaded guilty to 11 felony counts of Misconduct or Neglect of Ships claims and seeking damages for alleged losses that those funds suffered Officers relating to the loss of 11 lives: one misdemeanour count under because of their purchases of BP ordinary shares and or ADSs, and one the Clean Water Act: one misdemeanour count under the Migratory Bird case was filed in New York federal court by funds that purchased BP Treaty Act: and one felony count of obstruction of Congress.
ordinary shares and ADSs, asserting state and federal law claims.
All of Pursuant to that sentence, BP will pay $4 billion, including $1,256 million the cases have been transferred to federal court in Houston and, with the in criminal fines, in instalments over a period of five years.
Under the exception of one case that has been stayed, the judge presiding over terms of the criminal plea agreement, a total of $2,394 million will be paid MDL 2185.
One case was voluntarily dismissed on 9 May 2013.
On to the National Fish & Wildlife Foundation NFWF over a period of five 3 October 2013, the judge granted in part and denied in part the years.
In addition, $350 million will be paid to the National Academy of defendants motion to dismiss three of the remaining 14 cases.
A subset Sciences NAS over a period of five years.
BP made its required of the claims was dismissed.
The judge held that English law governs the payments that were due by 30 March and 29 April 2013 and 29 January plaintiffs remaining claims with the exception of the federal law claims 2014, totalling $926 million.
The next scheduled payments under the plea based on purchases of ADSs and a potential claim under Ohio state law agreement total $595 million and are due by 29 January 2015. against BP p. l. c. by certain Ohio funds.
On 11 December 2013, defendants moved to dismiss 10 of the remaining cases and answered The court also ordered, as previously agreed with the US government, the complaints in two others.
On 5 December 2013, the Ohio funds filed that BP serve a term of five years probation.
Pursuant to the terms of an amended complaint withdrawing their English law claim and asserting the plea agreement, the court also ordered certain equitable relief, only a claim under Ohio state law.
On 6 January 2014, BP moved to including additional actions, enforceable by the court, to further enhance dismiss that case.
the safety of drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
These requirements relate to BPs risk management processes, such as thirdCanadian class action party auditing and verification, BPs oil spill response plan, training, and On 20 July 2012, a BP entity received an amended statement of claim for well control equipment and processes such as blowout preventers and an action in Alberta, Canada, filed by three plaintiffs seeking to assert cementing.
BP has also agreed to maintain a real-time drilling operations claims under Canadian law against BP on behalf of a class of Canadian monitoring centre in Houston or another appropriate location.
In addition, residents who allegedly suffered losses because of their purchase of BP BP will undertake several initiatives with academia and regulators to ordinary shares and ADSs.
This case was dismissed on jurisdictional develop new technologies related to deepwater drilling safety.
On 15 November 2012, one of the resolution also provides for the appointment of two monitors, both with plaintiffs re-filed a statement of claim against BP in Ontario, Canada, terms of up to four years.
A process safety monitor will review, and seeking to assert the same claims under Canadian law against BP on provide recommendations concerning BPXPs process safety and risk behalf of a class of Canadian residents.
BP moved to dismiss that action management procedures for deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
An for lack of jurisdiction, and on 9 October 2013 the Ontario court denied ethics monitor will review and provide recommendations concerning BPs motion.
On 7 November 2013, BP filed a notice of appeal from that BPs ethics and compliance programme.
BP has also agreed to retain an decision, and filed its papers on that appeal on 19 December 2013: independent third-party auditor who will review and report to the argument is scheduled for 24 June 2014. probation officer, the DoJ and BP regarding BPXPs compliance with the Dividend-related proceedings key terms of the plea agreement including the completion of safety and On 5 July 2012, the district court in MDL 2185 issued a decision granting environmental management systems audits, operational oversight BPs motion to dismiss, for lack of personal jurisdiction, the lawsuit enhancements, oil spill response training and drills and the against BP p. l. c. for cancelling its dividend payment in June 2010.
On implementation of best practices.
Under the plea agreement, BP has also 10 August 2012, the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, which BP agreed to co-operate in ongoing criminal actions and investigations, moved to dismiss on 9 October 2012.
On 12 April 2013, the court including prosecutions of four former employees who have been granted BPs motion and dismissed the lawsuit for lack of personal separately charged.
jurisdiction and on the alternative grounds of failure to state a claim and In its resolution with the SEC, BP has resolved the SECs Deepwater that the courts of England are the more appropriate forum for the Horizon-related claims against the company under Sections 10 b and litigation.
On 16 June 2013, the court granted the plaintiffs motion to 13 a of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the associated rules.
BP amend its decision so as to eliminate the alternative grounds for has agreed to a civil penalty of $525 million, payable in three instalments dismissal.
On 22 November 2013, the plaintiffs filed a new and over a period of three years, and has consented to the entry of an substantially identical action against BP p. l. c. in federal court in New York, injunction prohibiting it from violating certain US securities laws and which was transferred to the judge presiding over MDL 2185.
The SECs claims are premised on oil flow rate estimates moved to dismiss that new action on 19 February 2014. contained in three reports provided by BP to the SEC during a one-week ERISA period on 29 and 30 April 2010 and 4 May 2010, within the first 14 days On 30 March 2012, the district court in MDL 2185 issued a decision after the accident.
BPs consent was incorporated in a final judgment and granting the defendants motions to dismiss the ERISA case related to court order on 10 December 2012, and BP made its first payment of BP share funds in several employee benefit savings plans.
On 11 April $175 million on 11 December 2012 and its second payment of 2012, the plaintiffs requested leave to file an amended complaint, which $175 million on 1 August 2013.
The final instalment of $175 million, plus was denied on 27 August 2012.
Final judgment dismissing the case was accrued interest, is due on 1 August 2014. entered on 4 September 2012 and, on 25 September 2012, the plaintiffs BPs November 2012 agreement with the US government does not filed a notice of appeal to the Fifth Circuit.
That appeal was fully briefed resolve the DoJs civil claims, such as claims for civil penalties under the as of 21 June 2013 and oral argument was held on 4 November 2013, Clean Water Act or claims for natural resource damages under OPA 90. but no ruling has yet been issued.
Neither does it resolve the private securities claims pending in Settlements with the DoJ and SEC MDL 2185.
On 1 June 2010, the DoJ announced that it was conducting an US Environmental Protection Agency matters investigation into the Incident encompassing possible violations of On 28 November 2012, the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA US civil or criminal laws, and subsequently created a unified task force of notified BP that it had temporarily suspended BP p. l. c. BPXP and a federal agencies to investigate the Incident.
On 15 November 2012, BP number of other BP subsidiaries from participating in new federal announced that it reached agreement with the US government, subject 264 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Additional disclosures contracts.
As a result of the temporary suspension, the BP entities listed for a Coastal Use Permit to remove certain orphan anchors that had in the notice are ineligible to receive any US government contracts either been placed in coastal waters to secure containment boom during oil spill through the award of a new contract, or the extension of the term of or response operations in 2010.
On 6 September 2013, BP sent a letter to renewal of an expiring contract.
The suspension does not affect existing the LDNR observing that the Order is pre-empted by federal law and contracts the company has with the US government, including those would require the consent of the Federal On-Scene Coordinator following relating to current and ongoing drilling and production operations in the a net environmental benefits analysis.
BP has requested that the LDNR Gulf of Mexico.
withdraw the Order or initiate a judicial hearing.
The LDNR has yet to withdraw the Order or initiate a judicial hearing, but responded on The charges to which BPXP pleaded guilty included one misdemeanour 17 September 2013 that the Order will not take effect unless and until count under the Clean Water Act that, by operation of law following the the LDNR assesses costs or penalties or files a lawsuit.
On courts acceptance of BPXPs plea, triggers a statutory debarment, also 18 September 2013, BP filed a complaint in the US District Court for the referred to as mandatory debarment, of the facility where the Clean Middle District of Louisiana seeking to enjoin the State of Louisiana from Water Act violation occurred.
On 1 February 2013, the EPA issued a enforcing the Order on grounds of federal pre-emption.
The LDNR moved notice that BPXP was mandatorily debarred at its Houston headquarters.
to dismiss BPs complaint on 5 November 2013, and BP filed a motion Mandatory debarment prevents a company from entering into new for summary judgment on 18 December 2013.
Briefing on the motions is contracts or new leases with the US government that would be now complete.
performed at the facility where the Clean Water Act violation occurred.
A mandatory debarment does not affect any existing contracts or leases a Non-US lawsuits company has with the US government and will remain in place until such Mexico time as the debarment is lifted through an agreement with the EPA or On 18 October 2012, before a Mexican Federal District Court located in the EPA decides to lift the debarment.
Mexico City, a class action complaint was filed against BPXP, BP America On 15 February 2013, BP filed an administrative challenge with the EPA Production Company, and other BP subsidiaries.
The plaintiffs, consisting seeking to lift the 28 November 2012 suspension of 22 BP entities and of fishermen and other groups, are seeking, among other things, the 1 February 2013 mandatory debarment of BPXP at its Houston compensatory damages for the class members who allegedly suffered headquarters.
On 19 July 2013, the EPA affirmed its suspension and economic losses, as well as an order requiring BP to remediate mandatory debarment decisions.
BP maintains that the EPAs actions do environmental damage resulting from the Incident, to provide funding for not have an adequate legal basis and do not reflect BPs present status the preservation of the environment and to conduct environmental as a responsible government contractor.
On 12 August 2013, BP filed a impact studies in the Gulf of Mexico for the next 10 years.
The plaintiffs lawsuit in the US District Court for the Southern District of Texas the did not properly serve the BP entities named as defendants and, on Texas District Court challenging the EPAs suspension and mandatory 20 January 2014, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their action.
On 25 November 2013, BP filed a motion for Ecuador summary judgment on its claims in the Texas District Court.
The UK A claim was commenced against BP by a group of claimants on 26 July government and a coalition of major trade and business groups led by the 2012 in Ecuador.
The majority of the claimants represent local NGOs.
The American Petroleum Institute later filed friend of the court amicus briefs claim alleges that through the Incident and BPs response to it, BP supporting BPs position.
On 28 January 2014, the EPA filed a motion for violated the rights of nature.
The claim is not monetary but rather seeks summary judgment in the Texas District Court.
Both motions remain injunctive relief.
Two previous claims on identical grounds were pending with briefing scheduled to be completed by 14 March 2014. dismissed at an early stage by the Ecuadorian courts.
On 3 December On 26 November 2013, the EPA issued a Notice of Continued 2012, the Ecuadorian court of first instance dismissed the claim.
On Suspensions and Proposed Debarments that continued the suspensions 7 December 2012, the claimants filed a timely notice of appeal to the of the previously suspended BP entities, suspended two new BP entities Ecuadorian court of second instance.
On 28 February 2013, the court BP Alternative Energy and BP Pipelines Alaska Inc., and proposed affirmed the dismissal by the lower court.
discretionary debarment of all suspended BP entities.
Pending investigations and reports relating to the Deepwater BP continues to work with the EPA in preparing an administrative Horizon oil spill agreement to resolve these suspension and debarment issues.
CSB investigation US Department of Interior matters The US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board CSB is On 14 September 2011, the US Coast Guard and Bureau of Ocean conducting an investigation of the Incident that is focused on the Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement BOEMRE issued a explosions and fire, and not the resulting oil spill or response efforts.
As report regarding the causes of the 20 April 2010 Macondo well blowout part of this effort, on 24 July 2012, the CSB conducted a hearing at which the BOEMRE Report.
The BOEMRE Report states that decisions by BP, it released its preliminary findings on, among other things, the use of Halliburton and Transocean increased the risk or failed to fully consider or safety indicators by industry including BP and Transocean and mitigate the risk of a blowout on 20 April 2010.
The BOEMRE Report also government regulators in offshore operations prior to the Incident.
On states that BP, Transocean and Halliburton violated certain regulations 30 March 2013, a ruling was issued in the CSBs pending enforcement related to offshore drilling.
In itself, the BOEMRE Report does not action against Transocean in federal district court in the Southern District constitute the initiation of enforcement proceedings relating to any of Texas holding that the CSB has jurisdiction to investigate the Incident violation.
On 12 October 2011, the US Department of the Interior Bureau and its subpoenas are valid and enforceable.
On 3 May 2013, Transocean of Safety and Environmental Enforcement issued to BPXP, Transocean, appealed to the Fifth Circuit, the district courts ruling that the CSB has and Halliburton Notification of Incidents of Noncompliance INCs.
That appeal is currently pending.
On 20 June 2013, the CSB notification issued to BPXP is for a number of alleged regulatory sent BP a letter stating that BP must comply with the outstanding violations concerning Macondo well operations.
The Department of document subpoenas.
BP is producing documents in compliance with Interior has indicated that this list of violations may be supplemented as the CSBs document subpoenas.
Separately the CSB has announced that additional evidence is reviewed, and on 7 December 2011, the Bureau of it may issue its reports in this matter in 2014.
The CSB may seek to Safety and Environmental Enforcement issued to BPXP a second INC. recommend improvements to BP and industry practices and to regulatory This notification was issued to BP for five alleged violations related to programmes to prevent recurrence and mitigate potential consequences.
drilling and abandonment operations at the Macondo well.
BP has filed an National Academy of Engineering National Research Council report administrative appeal with respect to the first and second INCs.
BP has A Committee of the National Academy of Engineering National Research filed a joint stay of proceedings with the Department of Interior with Council that had been reviewing methods for assessing impacts on respect to both INCs.
natural resources issued its final report on 10 July 2013.
The report endorses use of an ecosystems services approach, and discusses Louisiana Department of Natural Resources additional data, models, research, and analysis that potentially would be On 21 August 2013, the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources needed in order to apply the approach to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
LDNR issued a Cease and Desist Order the Order directing BP to apply BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 265 Administrative Law Judge rendered her decision on 31 July 2013.
Of the Other legal proceedings 42 remaining citations, OSHA voluntarily dismissed one of them and the FERC and CFTC matters judge vacated 36 additional citations.
The remaining five citations were The US Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC and the downgraded and assessed an aggregate penalty of $35,000.
In addition, US Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC have been the judge accepted the parties pre-trial settlement of the 23 citations.
As investigating several BP entities regarding trading in the next-day natural a result of the settlement and the judges decision, the total penalty in gas market at Houston Ship Channel during September, October and respect of the citations was reduced from the original amount of November 2008.
The FERC Office of Enforcement staff notified BP on approximately $3 million to $80,000.
The Review Commission has 12 November 2010 of their preliminary conclusions relating to alleged granted OSHAs petition for review with briefing scheduled to be market manipulation in violation of 18 C. F. R. Sec.
On 30 November completed in the first half of 2014.
The Review Commission is not 2010, CFTC Enforcement staff also provided BP with a notice of intent to expected to issue its decision until 2015. recommend charges based on the same conduct alleging that BP Texas City flaring event engaged in attempted market manipulation in violation of Section 6 c, 6 d, and 9 a 2 of the Commodity Exchange Act.
On 23 December 2010, A flaring event occurred at the Texas City refinery in April and May 2010.
This flaring event is the subject of civil lawsuit claims for personal injury BP submitted responses to the FERC and CFTC November 2010 notices providing a detailed response that it did not engage in any inappropriate and, in some cases, property damage by roughly 50,000 individuals.
These lawsuit claims have been consolidated in a Texas multi-district or unlawful activity.
On 28 July 2011, FERC staff issued a Notice of Alleged Violations stating that it had preliminarily determined that several litigation proceeding in Galveston, Texas.
The first trial in the matter began in September 2013 and was completed in October 2013.
Of the BP entities fraudulently traded physical natural gas in the Houston Ship Channel and Katy markets and trading points to increase the value of six plaintiffs initially scheduled for trial, two filed nonsuits before trial, the claims of one plaintiff were dismissed by the court on directed verdict, their financial swing spread positions.
On 5 August 2013, the FERC issued an Order to Show Cause and Notice of Proposed Penalty directing and the jury awarded no damages to the remaining three plaintiffs.
The second trial in the matter is scheduled to begin on 15 September 2014.
In BP to respond to a FERC Enforcement Staff report, which FERC issued on the same day, alleging that BP manipulated the next-day, fixed price addition, this flaring event and other refinery emissions from December 2008 through to 2010 were the subject of a purported class action, on gas market at Houston Ship Channel from mid-September 2008 to 30 November 2008.
The FERC Enforcement Staff report proposes a civil behalf of some local residential property owners, filed in US federal district court in Galveston.
The court denied the plaintiffs class penalty of $28 million and the surrender of $800,000 of alleged profits.
BP filed its answer on 4 October 2013 denying the allegations and certification motion on 2 October 2013, and the plaintiffs dismissed their complaint on 4 December 2013.
The flares involved in this event are also moving for dismissal.
the subject of a federal government enforcement action.
BP retained CSB matters these liabilities when it sold the Texas City refinery.
On 23 March 2005, an explosion and fire occurred at the Texas City refinery.
Fifteen workers died in the incident and many others were Prudhoe Bay leak In March and August 2006, oil leaked from oil transit pipelines operated injured.
BP Products North America, Inc. BP Products has resolved all civil injury claims and all civil and criminal governmental claims arising by BP Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA at the Prudhoe Bay unit on the North Slope of Alaska.
On 12 May 2008, a BP p. l. c. shareholder filed a from the March 2005 incident.
In March 2007, the US Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board CSB issued a report on the incident.
The consolidated complaint alleging violations of federal securities law on behalf of a putative class of BP p. l. c. shareholders against BP p. l. c. report contained recommendations to the Texas City refinery and to the board of directors of BP.
To date, the CSB has accepted that the majority BPXA, BP America Inc. and four officers of the companies, based on alleged misrepresentations concerning the integrity of the Prudhoe Bay of BPs responses to its recommendations have been satisfactorily addressed.
BP and the CSB are continuing to discuss the remaining open pipeline before its shutdown on 6 August 2006.
On 8 February 2010, the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit the Ninth Circuit accepted recommendations with the objective of the CSB agreeing to accept these as satisfactorily addressed as well.
BPs appeal from a decision of the lower court granting in part and denying in part BPs motion to dismiss the lawsuit.
On 29 June 2011, the OSHA matters Ninth Circuit ruled in BPs favour that the filing of a trust-related On 29 October 2009, the US Occupational Safety and Health agreement with the SEC containing contractual obligations on the part of Administration OSHA issued citations to the Texas City refinery related BP was not a misrepresentation which violated federal securities laws.
to the Process Safety Management PSM Standard.
On 12 July 2012, The BP p. l. c. shareholder filed an amended complaint, in response to OSHA and BP resolved 409 of the 439 citations.
The agreement required which BP filed a new motion to dismiss, which was granted by the trial that BP pay a civil penalty of $13,027,000 and that BP abate the alleged court on 14 March 2012.
The plaintiff appealed the courts dismissal of violations by 31 December 2012.
BP completed these requirements and the case, and on 13 February 2014 the Ninth Circuit affirmed in part and the agreement has terminated.
The settlement excluded 30 citations for reversed in part, ruling that claims based on four alleged which BP and OSHA could not reach agreement.
However, the parties misrepresentations should not have been dismissed.
The case has been agreed that BPs penalty liability will not exceed $1 million if those remanded to the trial court for further proceedings.
citations are resolved through litigation.
On 4 March 2014, the parties reached agreement in relation to the remaining Texas City citations.
The Exxon Valdez matters Approximately 200 lawsuits were filed in state and federal courts in agreement, which is subject to approval by an Administrative Law Judge from the OSH Review Commission, links the outcome of the remaining Alaska seeking compensatory and punitive damages arising out of the Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989.
Most of Texas City citations to the ultimate outcome of the remaining Toledo citations see below.
If the 31 July 2013 decision of the Administrative those suits named Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service Company Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the Law Judge in relation to the remaining Toledo citations is ultimately upheld, OSHA has agreed to dismiss the remaining Texas City citations.
other oil companies that own Alyeska.
Alyeska initially responded to the spill until the response was taken over by Exxon.
BP owns a 46.9% If the 31 July 2013 decision is ultimately overturned, BP has agreed to pay a penalty not exceeding $1 million to resolve the remaining Texas interest reduced during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3.1% to Phillips in Alyeska through a subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briefly indirectly City citations.
owned a further 20% interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with On 8 March 2010, OSHA issued 65 citations to BP Products and BPAtlantic Richfield.
Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims Husky for alleged violations of the PSM Standard at the Toledo refinery, against them under these lawsuits.
Exxon has indicated that it may file a with penalties of approximately $3 million.
These citations resulted from claim for contribution against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and an inspection conducted pursuant to OSHAs Petroleum Refinery damages that it has incurred.
If any claims are asserted by Exxon that Process Safety Management National Emphasis Program.
Both BP affect Alyeska and its owners, BP will defend the claims vigorously.
Products and BP-Husky contested the citations.
The parties resolved 23 citations in a pre-trial settlement for an aggregate amount of $45,000.
Lead paint matters Since 1987, Atlantic Richfield Company Atlantic Richfield, a subsidiary of A trial of the remaining 42 citations was completed in June 2012 before an Administrative Law Judge from the OSH Review Commission.
The BP, has been named as a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought in 266 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
