Financial statements Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Independent auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts to the members of BP p. l. c. Opinion on the financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2013 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Emphasis of matter significant uncertainty over provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill In forming our opinion we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in Note 2 to the financial statements concerning the provisions, future expenditures for which reliable estimates cannot be made and other contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill significant event.
The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all obligations relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty and the ultimate exposure and cost to BP will be dependent on many factors.
Furthermore, significant uncertainty exists in relation to the amount of claims that will become payable by BP, the amount of fines that will ultimately be levied on BP including any determination of BPs culpability based on any findings of negligence, gross negligence or wilful misconduct, the outcome of litigation and arbitration proceedings, and any costs arising from any longer-term environmental consequences of the oil spill, which will also impact upon the ultimate cost for BP.
Our opinion is not qualified in respect of these matters.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the group in addition to applying IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited The consolidated financial statements of BP p. l. c for the year ended 31 December 2013 comprise the group income statement, the group statement of comprehensive income, the group statement of changes in equity, the group balance sheet, the group cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 38.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 116, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We identified the following risks that have the greatest effect on the overall audit strategy: the allocation of audit resource: and in directing the efforts of the audit engagement team: the significant uncertainties over provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill: the impact of the estimation of the quantity of oil and gas reserves on impairment testing, depreciation, depletion and amortization and decommissioning provisions: unauthorized trading activity: BPs ability to exercise significant influence over Rosneft and the consequent accounting for the interest in Rosneft using the equity method: and the fair value accounting on the acquisition of the equity interest in Rosneft.
Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing our audit, and in evaluating the effect of misstatements on our audit and on the financial statements.
For the purposes of determining whether the financial statements are free from material error, we define materiality as the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, in light of the surrounding circumstances, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
When establishing our overall audit strategy, we determined the magnitude of uncorrected and undetected misstatements that we judged would be material for the financial statements as a whole.
We determined materiality for the group to be $1 billion 2012 $1 billion.
Our evaluation of materiality requires professional judgement and necessarily takes into account qualitative as well as quantitative i. e. profit before taxation in the group income statement considerations implicit in the definition.
This materiality provided a basis for identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement and determining the nature, timing and extent of further audit procedures.
This page does not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 117 Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Independent auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts to the members of BP p. l. c. continued On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, our judgement was that overall performance materiality that is our tolerance for misstatement in an individual account or balance for the group should be 75% 2012 75% of the materiality we have determined for the group, namely $750 million 2012 $750 million.
Our objective in adopting this approach was to ensure that total uncorrected and undetected audit differences do not exceed our materiality level of $1 billion for the financial statements as a whole.
We agreed with the audit committee that we would report to the committee all audit differences in excess of $50 million 2012 $50 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
An overview of the scope of our audit We adopted a risk-based approach in determining our audit strategy.
This approach focuses audit effort towards higher risk areas, such as management judgements and estimates and on locations that are considered significant based upon size, complexity and risk.
Our group audit scope focused on key locations.
They were selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above.
Together with the group functions, which are also subject to audit, these locations represent the principal business units of the group and account for 75% 2012 72% of the groups total assets and 84% 2012 72% of the groups profit before tax.
All locations within the scope were subject to audit procedures and the extent of audit work was based on our assessment of the risks of material misstatement and of the materiality of the groups business operations at those locations.
For the remaining locations, we performed other procedures to ensure there were no significant risks of material misstatement in the group financial statements.
One of the key locations in scope for the group audit is Rosneft, a material associate that represents approximately 4% of the groups total assets and 7% of the groups profit before tax.
Rosneft is not controlled by the group.
We were provided with sufficient access to Rosnefts auditors in order to ensure appropriate audit procedures had been completed by them on the financial statements of Rosneft from which the BP equity accounting entries are determined.
The group audit team continued to follow a programme of planned visits that were designed to ensure that the Senior Statutory Auditor or his designates visit each of the locations where the group audit scope was focused at least once every two years and the most significant of them at least once a year.
The Senior Statutory Auditor visited Houston four times during the audit primarily to consider the uncertainties over provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill and he visited Moscow three times primarily to consider the matters related to the equity interestin Rosneft.
Our response to the risks of material misstatement identified above included the following procedures: we focused on the significant uncertainties over provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill: specifically the areas of highest uncertainty where assumptions or new events could result in a material change to the provisions recorded or contingent liabilities disclosed.
We engaged actuaries to work with the audit team and challenge the expert input provided to BP by external actuaries.
We considered the legal opinions that determined managements positions, in particular relating to whether BP will be found grossly negligent and the implications for the fines and penalties payable under the Clean Water Act.
we performed testing of controls over BPs internal certification process for technical and commercial experts who are responsible for the estimation of oil and gas reserves.
We assessed whether the changes in proved reserves have been made in compliance with relevant regulations.
We ensured that the updated reserves estimates were included appropriately in consideration of impairment, depreciation, depletion and amortization and decommissioning provisions.
we performed testing relating to controls over unauthorized trading activity and obtained confirmations directly from third parties for a sample of trades.
Analytical tools were used to assist us in identifying trades which have the highest risk of unauthorized activity so as to focus our testing on these trades.
we challenged managements judgement that BP exercises significant influence over Rosneft, including obtaining evidence of BPs participation in decision-making through representation on the Rosneft board and committees of the board.
we challenged managements assumptions used in the determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities of the Rosneft business.
We engaged valuations specialists to work with the audit team to consider the valuation methodology and specifically the assumptions used around future oil and gas prices, exchange rates and discount rates.
We performed procedures to ensure the veracity of the valuation model and that the base data used in the model agreed to the underlying books and records.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the matters set out below.
Under the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to consider whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired during the audit and the directors statement that they consider the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and whether the annual report appropriately discloses those matters that we communicated to the audit committee which we consider should have been disclosed.
118 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Independent auditors report on the Annual Report and Accounts to the members of BP p. l. c. continued Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the statement of directors responsibilities, set out on page 116, in relation to going concern: and the part of the Governance and Risk section of the Annual Report relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2013 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Ernst & Young LLP John C. Flaherty Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 6 March 2014 1.
T he maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. website are the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
L egislation in the United Kindom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 119 Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Annual Report on Form 20-F The Board of Directors and Shareholders of BP p. l. c. We have audited the accompanying group balance sheets of BP p. l. c. as of 31 December 2013, 31 December 2012 and 1 January 2012, and the related group income statement, group statement of comprehensive income, group statement of changes in equity and group cash flow statement for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2013.
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the group financial position of BP p. l. c. at 31 December 2013, 31 December 2012 and 1 January 2012 and the group results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2013, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In forming our opinion we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures made in Note 2 to the financial statements concerning the provisions, future expenditures for which reliable estimates cannot be made and other contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill significant event.
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the group has changed its accounting policies for employee benefits and interests in joint arrangements, including related disclosures, as a result of adopting new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, BP p. l. c. s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code as issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales the Turnbull guidance and our report dated 6 March 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion.
s Ernst & Young LLP London, England 6 March 2014 1.
120 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Financial statements Consolidated financial statements of the BP group Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Annual Report on Form 20-F The Board of Directors and Shareholders of BP p. l. c. We have audited BP p. l. c. s internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code as issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales the Turnbull guidance.
BP p. l. c. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements report on internal control on page 111.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained inall material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receiptsand expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion, BP p. l. c. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2013, based on the Turnbull guidance.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the group balance sheets of BP p. l. c. as of 31 December 2013 and 2012, and the related group income statement, group statement of comprehensive income, group statement of changes in equity and group cash flow statement for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2013, and our report dated 6 March 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
s Ernst & Young LLP London, England 6 March 2014 Consent of independent registered public accounting firm We consent to the incorporation by reference of our reports dated 6 March 2014, with respect to the group financial statements of BP p. l. c. and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of BP p. l. c. included in this Annual Report and Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2013 in the following Registration Statements: Registration Statement on Form F-3 File No.
333-179953 of BP Capital Markets p. l. c. and BP p. l. c. : and Registration Statements on Form S-8 File Nos.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 121
