Additional disclosures processing system that handles production from more than 80 fields in Upstream analysis by region the central North Sea.
The system has a capacity of more than The following discussion reviews operations in our upstream business by 675mboe d, with average throughput in 2013 of 421mboe d. BP also geographical area, and lists associated significant events for 2013.
BPs operates and has a 36% interest in the Central Area Transmission percentage working interest in oil and gas assets is shown in System CATS, a 400-kilometre natural gas pipeline system in the central parentheses.
Working interest is the cost-bearing ownership share of an UK sector of the North Sea.
The pipeline has a transportation capacity of oil or gas lease.
Consequently, the percentages disclosed for certain 293mboe d to a natural gas terminal at Teesside in north-east England.
agreements do not necessarily reflect the percentage interests in Average throughput in 2013 was 52mboe d. CATS offers natural gas reserves and production.
In addition, BP operates the In addition to exploration, development and production activities, our Sullom Voe oil and gas terminal in Shetland.
upstream business also includes midstream and LNG activities.
North America Midstream activities involve the ownership and management of crude oil Our upstream activities in North America take place in four main areas: and natural gas pipelines, processing facilities and export terminals, LNG processing facilities and transportation, and our natural gas liquids NGLs deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Lower 48 states, Alaska and Canada.
For further information on BPs activities in connection with its extraction business.
responsibilities following the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, see page 38.
Our LNG supply activities are located in Abu Dhabi, Angola, Australia, Indonesia and Trinidad.
We market around 25% of our LNG production BP has around 620 lease blocks in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, more using BP LNG shipping and contractual rights to access import terminal than any other company, and operates four production hubs.
capacity in the liquid markets of the US via Cove Point, the UK via the In 2013 BP started up an additional three rigs in the Gulf of Mexico, Isle of Grain, Spain in Bilbao and Italy in Rovigo, with the remainder and by the end of the year had ten rigs in operation.
LNG is supplied to customers in multiple In April the Atlantis North expansion Phase 1 major project BP 56% markets including Japan, South Korea, China, the Dominican Republic, started up.
In April we completed the sale of our interest in the Freedom BP 31.5% field in the Gulf of Mexico to Ecopetrol America.
Europe In April the decision was taken not to move forward with the existing In Europe, BP is active in the UK North Sea and the Norwegian Sea.
Our plan for the Mad Dog Phase 2 project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico activities in the North Sea include a focus on maximizing recovery from as market conditions and industry cost inflation made the project less existing producing fields and selected new field developments.
This decision resulted in an In January production from the new facilities at the Valhall field in the impairment of $159 million.
BP and its partners reviewed alternative southern part of the Norwegian North Sea commenced and has now development concepts and the current concept being considered is a ramped up to 70 mboe d. Production from Skarv, which started up in single production host designed for future flexibility to capture December 2012, has now ramped up to 160 mboe d. additional potential resource.
In March BP and its partners, ConocoPhillips, Chevron and Shell, In December BP announced it had made a significant oil discovery at announced the decision to proceed with a two-year appraisal its Gila prospect BP 80%, which it co-owns with ConocoPhillips, in programme to evaluate a potential third phase of the Clair field, west of the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
By the end of 2013, two appraisal wells had been In February 2014 the Shell-operated Mars B major project BP 28.5% completed and we are currently drilling a third.
and the BP-operated Na Kika Phase 3 project BP 50% started up.
In April we completed the sale of our interest in the Sean BP 50% For information on the temporary suspension and mandatory debarment field in the North Sea to SSE plc for $288 million.
notices issued by the US Environmental Protection Agency EPA in In June we completed the sales of our interests in the Harding BP November 2012 and February 2013 and related proceedings, see Legal 70%, Maclure BP 37.04%, Braes BP 27.7%, Braemar BP 52% and proceedings on page 257.
Devenick BP 88.7% fields in the North Sea to TAQA Bratani Ltd for $1,058 million plus future payments which, depending on oil price and The US onshore business operates in the Lower 48 states producing production, are currently expected to exceed $180 million after tax.
natural gas, NGLs and condensate across nine states, including In June BP announced that it had been awarded two licences in the production from tight gas, coalbed methane CBM and shale gas assets.
Barents Sea as part of Norways 22nd offshore licensing round.
During 2013 BP participated in the drilling of several hundred wells as a In August the Clair Ridge platform jackets the steel support structure non-operating partner in the Eagle Ford shale, Anadarko basin and were installed, a major milestone in the project.
In the Eagle Ford shale BP, together with the operating In September BP announced that more than $1.5 billion in contracts partner, continued to expand its position, with around 450,000 gross had been awarded to UK-based companies to provide services and acres at the end of 2013 and nine rigs operating.
Production from the equipment for the major redevelopment of the Schiehallion and Loyal liquids-rich Anadarko basin is from over 1,000,000 gross acres, with oil fields to the west of Shetland.
The project to redevelop the fields, around 12 rigs operating, and at Fayetteville there is an average of eight which are operated by BP on behalf of its partners, involves two main rigs running over the 145,000 gross acreage position.
elements: a new floating production, storage and offloading vessel FPSO and a major upgrade of the subsea infrastructure that will lie on In March 2014 we announced plans to establish a separate BP business the seabed.
to manage our onshore oil and gas assets in the US lower 48, with the In October the UK government announced a temporary management goal of building a stronger, more competitive and sustainable business.
scheme to allow the restart of production from the Rhum gas field in We expect the separate organization to be operational in early 2015. the central North Sea, which has been suspended since November For further information on the use of hydraulic fracturing in our shale gas 2010 following the imposition of EU sanctions on Iran.
The field is assets see page 45.
BPs onshore US crude oil and product pipelines and owned by BP 50% and the Iranian Oil Company IOC under a joint related transportation assets are included in the Downstream segment operating agreement dating back to the early 1970s.
BP intends to see page 31. recommence operations at Rhum in the future in accordance with the In Alaska, we operate 13 North Slope oilfields including Prudhoe Bay, temporary management scheme, under which the UK government will Endicott, Northstar and Milne Point and four North Slope pipelines, and assume control of the IOCs share of Rhum for a period of up to five own significant interests in six other producing fields.
Revenue from the IOCs share will be placed in a blocked account.
See Further note on certain activities on page 267 for further Development of the Point Thomson initial production facility project information.
Engineering design is substantially In December BP was awarded 14 licences in the 27th UK Offshore Oil complete, construction of field infrastructure is in progress and and Gas Licensing Round, subject to final government approval.
fabrication of the four main process modules has commenced.
Overall, In the UK sector of the North Sea, BP operates the Forties Pipeline the project is on track.
BP holds a 32% working interest in the Point System FPS BP 100%, an integrated oil and NGLs transportation and Thomson field, and ExxonMobil is the operator.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 239 In June BP announced plans to add $1 billion of new investment over In May BP and its partners announced they had been named winning five years beginning 2015 in the Alaska North Slope fields by adding bidders in eight deepwater blocks offshore Brazil in the Brazilian two additional drilling rigs, one each in 2015 and 2016.
Changes in the National Petroleum Agencys 11th bid round.
BP will be operator of states oil tax statute helped to enable this increased investment.
Six of the blocks are in the Foz fide Amazonas addition, BP secured support from the other working interest owners basin, with the remaining two in the Potiguar and Barreirinhas basins.
at Prudhoe Bay to begin evaluating an additional $3 billion of new In July BP announced the completion of an agreement with Petrleo development opportunities, including facility expansions, a new well Brasileiro S. A. Petrobras to farm in to five deepwater exploration and pad, and expansion of two existing well pads.
production blocks, subject to government and regulatory approvals.
BP continued to work jointly with ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips and The blocks are in the deepwater Potiguar basin located in the Brazilian 2 TransCanada throughout 2013 to advance the Alaska LNG project.
In equatorial margin and in total cover an area of 3,837km.
February 2013 a lead concept for the project was announced, In December BP confirmed the Pitu oil discovery, operated by consisting of a North Slope gas treatment plant, an 800-mile Petrobras, on block BM-POT-17 in the frontier deepwater of the approximately pipeline to tidewater and a three-train liquefaction Potiguar basin.
BPs farm-in to a 40% interest in this block is subject to facility, with an estimated capacity of 3bcf d 15-18 million tonnes per final regulatory approvals.
An initial summer field season to collect data that will support In December BP announced the Pitanga exploration well on block filing of necessary regulatory permits was completed.
In October BM-CAL-13 in the Camamu-Almada basin offshore Brazil had selection of the lead site for the liquefaction facility was announced as encountered oil shows but no commercial quantities of oil or gas.
This Nikiski, Alaska, located on the south-central Alaskan coast.
In January result will cause BP to relinquish the block and triggered a write-off of 2014 BP, ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips and TransCanada signed a heads $216 million related to the costs of drilling the well, as well as a writeof agreement HOA with the State of Alaska enabling state off of $845 million associated with the value allocated to this block as participation in the $45 $65 billion Alaska LNG project.
The HOA sets part of the accounting related to the acquisition of Devon Energys out guiding principles for the parties to negotiate project-enabling interest in the block announced in 2010. contracts once enabling legislation is passed and provides a road map In January 2014 we completed the sale of our interest in the Polvo oil for state equity ownership in the project.
field BP 60% in Brazil to HRT Oil & Gas Ltda for $135 million.
Also in Alaska, BP owns a 48.4% interest in the Trans-Alaska Pipeline In Argentina, Bolivia and Chile, BP conducts activity through Pan System TAPS.
The TAPS transports crude oil from Prudhoe Bay on the American Energy LLC PAE, an equity-accounted joint venture with Alaska North Slope to the port of Valdez in south-east Alaska.
Bridas Corporation, in which BP has a 60% interest.
In April 2012 the two non-controlling owners of TAPS, Koch In Uruguay, BP has interests in three offshore deepwater exploration 3.08% and Unocal 1.37% gave notice to BP, ExxonMobil blocks: blocks 11 and 12 in the Pelotas basin and block 6 in the Punta del 2 21.1% and ConocoPhillips 29.1% of their intention to withdraw as Este basin, together covering an area of almost 26,000km.
The transfer of Kochs interest to the remaining provide that BP will hold a 100% interest in the blocks and the owners BP, ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips was agreed and approved Uruguayan state oil company, ANCAP, will have a right to participate in by regulatory authorities, and closed in July with an effective date of up to 30% of any discoveries.
BP is preparing to undertake its 2 August 2012.
The remaining owners and Unocal have not yet reached commitment to acquire over 13,000km of 3D seismic data and 3,000km agreement regarding the terms for the transfer of Unocals interest in of 2D seismic data during the first exploration period which ends in TAPS and are currently engaged in litigation.
In September 2012 BP, ExxonMobil and ConocoPhillips entered into In Trinidad & Tobago, BP holds licences covering 1,806,000 acres two settlement agreements on the pooling of costs on TAPS.
In July offshore of the east and north-east coast.
Facilities include 13 offshore the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC issued an order platforms and one onshore processing facility.
Production is comprised of approving the two settlement agreements, and implementing cost oil, gas and associated liquids.
pooling between TAPS owners under the terms of the settlement agreements.
BP has a shareholding in Atlantic LNG ALNG, an LNG liquefication plant, a in Trinidad & Tobago that averages 39% across four LNG trains with a In Canada, BP is currently focused on oil sands development and intends combined capacity of 21 million tonnes per annum.
BP sells gas to each to use in situ steam-assisted gravity drainage SAGD technology, which of the LNG trains, supplying 100% of the gas for train 1, 50% for train 2, uses the injection of steam into the reservoir to warm the bitumen so 75% for train 3 and around 67% of the gas for train 4.
All of the LNG that it can flow to the surface through producing wells.
We hold interests from Atlantic train 1 and most of the LNG from trains 2 and 3 is sold to in three oil sands leases through the Sunrise Oil Sands and Terre fide third parties in the US and Europe under long-term contracts.
BPs equity Grace partnerships and the Pike Oil Sands joint operation.
In addition, we LNG entitlement from trains 2, 3 and 4 is marketed via BPs LNG have significant exploration interests in the Canadian Beaufort Sea.
The marketing and trading function to markets in the US, UK, Spain and award of four offshore leases in Nova Scotia that were successfully bid South America.
Africa Phase 1 of the Sunrise Oil Sands SAGD development, in which we have a 50% non-operated interest, is under construction and is BPs upstream activities in Africa are located in Angola, Algeria, Libya, expected to commence operations in late 2014.
The production Morocco, Egypt and Namibia.
capacity of Sunrise Phase 1 is expected to be 60mb d of bitumen.
BP is present in nine major deepwater licences offshore Angola and is A major seismic programme on the Nova Scotia exploration leases is operator in four of these.
planned for the summer of 2014.
The focus of the seismic programme 2 will be to shoot 3D seismic on the 14,000km lease area in depths Production from the Pluto, Saturno, Vnus and Marte PSVM ranging from 100 metres to 3,500 metres.
development area in Block 31, offshore Angola, which started production in late 2012, continued to increase as planned, reaching a South America maximum rate of just over 150mb d in 2013.
In South America, BP has upstream activities in Brazil, Argentina, Bolivia, In October we had an oil and gas discovery in the pre-salt play of Chile, Uruguay and Trinidad & Tobago.
Angola in Block 20 BP 30%, operated by Cobalt International Energy, In Brazil, BP has interests in 24 exploration and production concessions, Inc.
This was followed by a successful drill-stem test in December.
six of which are operated by BP, across six basins.
Five of these concessions are subject to government and regulatory approvals.
In March BP announced the completion of a successful flow test of the Itaipu-1A well, offshore Brazil.
This activity was part of the ongoing appraisal programme and indicates that commercially viable flow rates a An LNG train is a processing facility used to liquefy and purify natural gas in the formation of can be achieved from the BP-operated Itaipu discovery, located in the LNG.
deepwater sector of the Campos basin.
240 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Additional disclosures In addition, BP has a 13.6% share in the Angola LNG project, which is in Papua Barat.
The asset comprises 14 producing wells, two offshore expected to receive approximately 1bcf of associated gas per day from platforms, two pipelines and an LNG plant with two production trains and offshore producing blocks and to produce 5.2 million tonnes per annum has a total capacity of 7.6 million tonnes of LNG per annum.
Plans for a of LNG gross, as well as related gas liquids products.
The Angola LNG third train remain on track, with commissioning projected to occur in project exported its first cargo of LNG in June.
Tangguh supplies LNG to customers in China, South Korea, Mexico and Japan through a combination of long, medium and short-term In Algeria, BP is a partner with Sonatrach and Statoil in the In Salah BP contracts.
33.15% and In Amenas BP 45.89% projects, which supply gas to the BP also participates in Indonesias LNG exports through its interest in domestic and European markets.
In addition, BP has an appraisal and Virginia Indonesia Company LLC VICO, the operator of Sanga-Sanga exploitation agreement with Sonatrach in the Bourarhat Sud block, PSA BP 38% supplying gas to the Bontang LNG plant in Kalimantan.
located to the south-west of In Amenas.
In the exploration phase this Sanga-Sanga currently delivers around 13% of the total gas feed to asset is BP-operated.
The Bourarhat licence has been extended until Bontang, Indonesias largest LNG export facility and one of the worlds September 2014 and BP is currently assessing its options to appraise and largest LNG plants with a capacity of 22 million tonnes per annum of LNG potentially develop this asset.
BPs total assets in Algeria at 31 December and output of more than 18 million tonnes of LNG.
2013 were $3,413 million $324 million current and $3,089 million noncurrent.
BP also participates in the Sanga-Sanga CBM PSA BP 38%, as well as one other CBM PSA, Tanjung IV BP 44%, in the Barito basin of Central In January a terrorist attack occurred at the In Amenas joint operation Kalimantan.
BP completed its exit from the Kapuas I, II and III PSAs in site.
Following the incident, BP had a staged reduction of non-essential May by transfer of its working interest to its respective partner in each workers out of Algeria as a precautionary and temporary measure.
Trains 1 and 2 have been restored to full production but Train 3 remains out of service.
In March, the decision was taken to suspend In China, BPs upstream activities in the country include deepwater activity at Bourarhat while options to appraise and potentially develop exploration in the South China Seas Block 42 05 BP 40.82%, Block this asset are assessed.
Ramp-down of activity was largely completed 43 11 BP 40.82% and Block 54 11 BP 100%.
In July BP announced that it had signed a PSA with CNOOC for Block In Libya, BP is in partnership with the Libyan Investment Authority LIA 54 11 in the South China Sea.
The new block is close to BPs two other to explore acreage in the onshore Ghadames and offshore Sirt basins, existing deepwater interests.
covered under the exploration and production-sharing agreement EPSA In December we completed the sale of our interests in the Yacheng ratified in December 2007 BP 85%.
BPs total assets in Libya at offshore gas field BP 34.3% in China for $308 million subject to post- 31 December 2013 were $472 million $72 million current and closing adjustments.
In China, BP also has a 30% equity stake in the 7 million tonnes per Planning and preparation work towards our offshore exploration drilling annum capacity Guangdong LNG regasification and pipeline project in programme is continuing.
With respect to the onshore exploration south-east China, making it the first foreign partner in Chinas LNG import drilling programme, a security review in June concluded that this could business.
The terminal is also supplied under a long-term contract with not be safely and securely delivered by BP at this time.
Alternative Australias North West Shelf venture described below.
In Azerbaijan, BP invests more than any other foreign investor, operates two PSAs,  ACG BP 35.8% and Shah Deniz In Morocco, BP entered into three farm-out agreements with Kosmos BP 25.5%, and also holds other exploration leases.
Energy covering three blocks in the Agadir Basin, offshore Morocco.
Under the terms of the agreements, one of which is still subject to In 2012 further EU and US regulations concerning restrictive measures government approval, BP will acquire a non-operating interest in each of against Iran were issued.
The Shah Deniz joint operation and its gas the Essaouira Offshore BP 45%, Foum Assaka Offshore BP 26.325% marketing and pipeline entities, in which Naftiran Intertrade Co. Ltd and Tarhazoute Offshore BP 45% blocks.
NICO has an interest, were excluded from the main operative provisions of the EU regulations as well as from the application of the In Egypt, BP and its partners currently produce 15% of Egypts oil new US sanctions, and fall within the exception for certain natural gas production and more than 30% of its gas production.
BPs total assets in projects under Section 603 of the US Iran Threat Reduction and Egypt at 31 December 2013 were $7,638 million, of which $2,299 million Syria Human Rights Act of 2012.
Shah Deniz continues to operate in were current see Financial statements Note 19 and $5,339 million full compliance with EU and US law.
For further information see were non-current.
Further note on certain activities on page 267.
In July the Egyptian army chief removed the countrys then-incumbent In June the Shah Deniz consortium announced that it had selected the president, Mohamed Morsi, from power and suspended the Egyptian Trans Adriatic Pipeline TAP to deliver gas volumes from the Shah Constitution.
Adly Mansour, Chief Justice of the Supreme Deniz Stage 2 project to customers in Italy, Greece, Bulgaria and Constitutional Court of Egypt was declared interim president.
In September, the consortium announced that it had concluded political and economic situation remains challenging despite aid being the Shah Deniz Stage 2 gas sales process with the completion of major pledged from neighbouring Gulf states.
Our production and operations sales agreements with European gas purchasers totalling 10bcma over continue and we are engaged with the government in managing our 25 years.
This adds to existing agreements to sell 6bcma of gas in operations.
The agreements come in to force following the final In September BP announced a significant gas discovery in the East Nile investment decision FID on the project, which occurred in December.
Delta with the Salamat well, the deepest well ever drilled in the Nile The upstream part of the Shah Deniz Stage 2 project entails drilling and Delta.
Salamat is the first well to be drilled in the BP-operated North completion of 26 subsea wells, construction of two bridge-linked Damietta BP 100% offshore concession awarded in 2010. platforms and new processing and compression facilities at the onshore terminal.
The FID also triggers plans to expand the South In Namibia, BP is a non-operating partner in one deepwater block, which Caucasus Pipeline SCP through Azerbaijan and Georgia, to construct is currently in the exploration phase.
This block was accessed in 2012.
In the Trans Antolian Gas Pipeline TANAP across Turkey and to December BP decided to withdraw from four deepwater blocks by not construct the TAP across Greece, Albania and into Italy.
exercising an option to increase its interest in Luderita Basin licence Additionally, the State Oil Company of Azerbaijan Republic SOCAR 0047, offshore Namibia.
and the Shah Deniz partners also agreed terms for extending the Asia Shah Deniz PSA to 2048 and, coincident with the FID, BP agreed to purchase a 3.3% equity in Shah Deniz and SCP from Statoil, subject to In Asia, BP has activities in Western Indonesia, China, Azerbaijan, Oman, conditions that are expected to be satisfied in 2014.
In January 2014 the West Chirag platform came online.
This completes In Western Indonesia, BP is involved in two of Indonesias three LNG the Chirag oil project sanctioned in 2010. centres.
BPs first operated LNG plant, Tangguh BP 37.16%, is located BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 241
