Goodwill and impairment review of goodwill $ million 2013 2012 Cost At 1 January 12,804 14,041 Exchange adjustments 46 160 Acquisitions 44 25 Reclassified as assets held for sale 1,327 Deletions 43 95 At 31 December 12,851 12,804 Impairment losses At 1 January 614 1,612 Impairment losses for the year 56 Reclassified as assets held for sale 977 Deletions 21 At 31 December 670 614 Net book amount at 31 December 12,181 12,190 Net book amount at 1 January 12,190 12,429 Impairment review of goodwill $ million Goodwill at 31 December 2013 2012 Upstream 7,812 7,862 Downstream 4,277 4,168 Other businesses and corporate 92 160 12,181 12,190 Goodwill acquired through business combinations has been allocated to groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the acquisition.
For Upstream, goodwill is allocated to all oil and gas assets in aggregate at the segment level.
For Downstream, goodwill has been allocated to the Rhine fuels value chain FVC, Lubricants and Other.
In assessing whether goodwill has been impaired, the carrying amount of the cash-generating unit CGU or groups of CGUs including goodwill is compared with the recoverable amount of the CGU or groups of CGUs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In the absence of readily available information about the fair value of a cash-generating unit, the recoverable amount is deemed to be the value in use for the purposes of performing an impairment test of goodwill, unless this would lead to an impairment loss.
If goodwill would be impaired using value in use as the recoverable amount, a fair value less costs to sell assessment would be performed as this may lead to a higher recoverable amount.
The group calculates the value in use using a discounted cash flow model.
The future cash flows are adjusted for risks specific to the cash-generating unit and are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate.
The discount rate is derived from the groups post-tax weighted average cost of capital and is adjusted where applicable to take into account any specific risks relating to the country where the cash-generating unit is located.
The rate to be applied to each country is reassessed each year.
Discount rates of 12% and 14% have been used for goodwill impairment calculations performed in 2013 2012 12% and 14%.
The business segment plans, which are approved on an annual basis by senior management, are the primary source of information for the determination of value in use.
They contain forecasts for oil and natural gas production, refinery throughputs, sales volumes for various types of refined products e. g. gasoline and lubricants, revenues, costs and capital expenditure.
As an initial step in the preparation of these plans, various environmental assumptions, such as oil prices, natural gas prices, refining margins, refined product margins and cost inflation rates, are set by senior management.
These environmental assumptions take account of existing prices, global supply-demand equilibrium for oil and natural gas, other macroeconomic factors and historical trends and variability.
Upstream $ million 2013 2012 Goodwill 7,812 7,862 Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount 6,811 25,871 The table above shows the carrying amount of the goodwill for the segment and the excess of the recoverable amount, based upon a value in use calculation, over the carrying amount the headroom.
The value in use is based on the cash flows expected to be generated by the projected oil or natural gas production profiles up to the expected dates of cessation of production of each producing field, based on current estimates of reserves.
As the production profile and related cash flows can be estimated from BPs past experience, management believes that the cash flows generated over the estimated life of field is the appropriate basis upon which to assess goodwill and individual assets for impairment.
The date of cessation of production depends on the interaction of a number of variables, such as the recoverable quantities of hydrocarbons, the production profile of the hydrocarbons, the cost of the development of the infrastructure necessary to recover the hydrocarbons, the production costs, the contractual duration of the production concession and the selling price of the hydrocarbons produced.
As each producing field has specific reservoir characteristics and economic circumstances, the cash flows of the fields are computed using appropriate individual economic models and key assumptions agreed by BPs management.
Capital expenditure, operating costs and expected hydrocarbon production profiles up to 2023 are derived from the business segment plan.
Estimated production volumes and cash flows up to the date of cessation of production on a field-by-field basis are developed to be consistent with this.
The production profiles used are consistent with the reserve volumes approved as part of BPs centrally controlled process for the estimation of proved and probable reserves and total resources.
Goodwill and impairment review of goodwill continued Intangible assets are deemed to have a recoverable amount equal to their carrying amount.
Consistent with prior years, the 2013 review for impairment was carried out during the fourth quarter.
The Brent oil price and Henry Hub natural gas price assumptions used in the impairment review of goodwill are shown in the table below.
Prices in 2019 and beyond were determined using long-term views of global supply and demand, building upon past experience of the industry and using information from external sources.
These prices were adjusted to arrive at appropriate consistent price assumptions for different qualities of oil and gas, or where appropriate, contracted oil and gas prices were applied.
The key assumptions required for the value-in-use estimation are the oil and natural gas prices, production volumes and the discount rate.
The sensitivity of the headroom to changes in the key assumptions was estimated.
Due to the non-linear relationship of different variables, the calculations were performed using a number of simplifying assumptions, including assuming a change to the variable being tested only, therefore a detailed calculation at any given price may produce a different result.
It is estimated that if the oil price assumption for all future years was approximately equal to the current assumption for 2019 and beyond, this would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related non-current assets of the segment.
It is estimated that if the price assumption for natural gas was around 24% lower than the current assumption for 2019 and beyond the headroom would be reduced to zero.
Estimated production volumes are based on detailed data for each field and take into account development plans agreed by management as part of the long-term planning process.
The average production for the purposes of goodwill impairment testing over the next 15 years is 597mmboe per year 2012 576mmboe per year.
It is estimated that if this production volume were to be reduced by around 2% for the whole period, this would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related non-current assets of the segment.
It is estimated that if the discount rate was approximately 14% for the entire portfolio this would cause the recoverable amount to be equal to the carrying amount of goodwill and related non-current assets of the segment.
Downstream $ million 2013 2012 Rhine FVC Lubricants Other Total Rhine FVC Lubricants Other Total Goodwill 643 3,518 116 4,277 627 3,441 100 4,168 Excess of recoverable amount over carrying amount 2,759 n a n a n a 2,411 n a n a n a Cash flows for each cash-generating unit are derived from the business segment plans, which cover a period of two to five years.
To determine the value in use for each of the cash-generating units, cash flows for a period of 10 years are discounted and aggregated with a terminal value.
Rhine FVC The key assumptions to which the calculation of value in use for the Rhine FVC is most sensitive are refinery gross margins, throughput volumes and discount rate.
Gross margin assumptions used in the Rhine FVC plan are consistent with those used to develop the regional Refining Marker Margin RMM.
The average values assigned to the regional RMM and refinery throughput volume over the plan period are $12.35 per barrel and 250mmbbl per year 2012 $12.30 per barrel and 246mmbbl per year.
These values reflect past experience and are consistent with external sources.
Cash flows beyond the five-year plan period are extrapolated using a nominal 4% growth rate 2012 4%.
No reasonably possible change in the discount rate would cause the Rhine FVC units carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
It is estimated that if the refinery margin assumption was $1.9 per barrel lower than the current assumption, the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount.
It is also estimated that if the refinery throughput volume assumption was 32mmbbl per year lower than the current assumption, the recoverable amount would equal the carrying amount.
Lubricants In certain circumstances IAS 36 allows the use of the most recent detailed calculations of the recoverable amount performed in an earlier period as the basis for the current years goodwill impairment test.
The most recent detailed calculation of the Lubricants units recoverable amount was performed in 2009 and this was used as the basis for the tests in 2010-2012 as the criteria of IAS 36 were met in each of those years.
IAS 36 does not specify for how many years such an approach is appropriate and management determined that a re-performance of the test was appropriate in 2013 given the passage of time since 2009.
There was no significant change in the outcome of this test compared to that in 2009.
The key assumptions to which the calculation of the value in use for the Lubricants unit is most sensitive are operating margins, sales volumes, and discount rate.
Operating margin and sales volumes assumptions used in the detailed impairment review of goodwill calculation are consistent with the assumptions used in the Lubricant units business plan and values assigned to these key assumptions reflect past experience.
No reasonably possible change in any of these key assumptions would cause the units carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Cash flows beyond the plan period are extrapolated using a 3% growth rate 2009 3%.
162 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
