Parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. Independent auditors report to the members of BP p. l. c. We have audited the parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2013 which comprise the company balance sheet, the company cash flow statement, the company statement of total recognized gains and losses and the related notes 1 to 13.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 116, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2013: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of BP p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2013.
That report includes an emphasis of matter on the significant uncertainty over provisions and contingencies related to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
Ernst & Young LLP John C. Flaherty Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 6 March 2014 1.
T he maintenance and integrity of the BP p. l. c. website are the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
L egislation in the United Kindom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The parent company financial statements of BP p. l. c. on pages 224-234 do not form part of BPs Annual Report on Form 20-F as filed with the SEC.
224 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
