Additional disclosures the US alleging injury to persons and property caused by lead pigment in and in December 2013 there was an agreement in principle to explore paint.
The majority of the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed settlement options with the Bolivian government.
Such proposals are against Atlantic Richfield.
Atlantic Richfield is named in these lawsuits as being evaluated.
alleged successor to International Smelting and Refining and another EC investigation and related matters company that manufactured lead pigment during the period 1920-1946.
On 14 May 2013, European Commission officials made a series of The plaintiffs include individuals and governmental entities.
Several of the unannounced inspections at the offices of BP and other companies lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits seek various remedies involved in the oil industry acting on concerns that anticompetitive including compensation to lead-poisoned children, cost to find and practices may have occurred in connection with oil price reporting remove lead paint from buildings, medical monitoring and screening practices and the reference price assessment process.
Such inspections programmes, public warning and education of lead hazards, are a preliminary step in investigations.
There is no deadline for the reimbursement of government healthcare costs and special education for completion of the inquiries.
Related inquiries and requests for information lead-poisoned citizens and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic have also been received from US and other regulators following the Richfield has been settled nor has Atlantic Richfield been subject to a European Commissions actions.
On 25 June 2013, the Federal Trade final adverse judgment in any proceeding.
The amounts claimed and, if Commission FTC served BP with a Request for Voluntary Submission of such suits were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies Documents and Information regarding its non-public investigation into sought in the various cases could be substantial.
While it is not possible whether or not Shell, BP or Statoil have engaged in unfair methods of to predict the outcome of these legal actions, Atlantic Richfield believes competition or manipulative or deceptive conduct.
BP is producing that it has valid defences.
It intends to defend such actions vigorously documents to the FTC.
In June 2013, BP received an initial request for and believes that the incurrence of liability is remote.
Consequently, BP information from the Japanese Fair Trade Commission.
In believes that the impact of these lawsuits on the groups results, financial December 2013, the Korea Fair Trade Commission initiated an position or liquidity will not be material.
investigation and a first information request is expected to be issued.
On Abbott Atlantis related matters 16 January 2014, the U. S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission In April 2009, Kenneth Abbott, as relator, filed a US False Claims Act requested price reporting documents from BP.
lawsuit against BP, alleging that BP violated federal regulations, and In addition, fifteen purported class actions related to these matters have made false statements in connection with its compliance with those been filed in US District Courts alleging manipulation and antitrust regulations, by failing to have necessary documentation for the Atlantis violations under the Commodity Exchange Act and US antitrust laws, and subsea and other systems.
BP is the operator and 56% interest owner of these purported class actions have been consolidated in federal court in the Atlantis unit in production in the Gulf of Mexico.
That complaint was New York.
unsealed in May 2010 and served on BP in June 2010.
Abbott seeks damages measured by the value, net of royalties, of all past and future Further note on certain activities production from the Atlantis platform, trebled, plus penalties.
In During the period covered by this report, non-US subsidiaries or other September 2010, Kenneth Abbott and Food & Water Watch filed an non-US entities of BP conducted limited activities in, or with persons amended complaint in the False Claims Act lawsuit seeking an injunction from, certain countries identified by the US Department of State as State shutting down the Atlantis platform.
The court denied BPs motion to Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US sanctions Sanctioned dismiss the complaint in March 2011.
Separately, also in March 2011, Countries.
These activities continue to be insignificant to the groups BOEMRE issued its investigation report of the Abbott Atlantis allegations, financial condition and results of operations.
BP monitors its activities which concluded that Kenneth Abbotts allegations that Atlantis with Sanctioned Countries and persons from Sanctioned Countries and operations personnel lacked access to critical, engineer-approved seeks to comply with applicable sanctions laws and regulations.
drawings were without merit and that his allegations about false submissions by BP to BOEMRE were unfounded.
Trial was scheduled to Both the US and the EU have enacted strong sanctions against Iran, begin on 10 April 2012, but the trial date was vacated and not including: in the US, sanctions against persons involved with Irans rescheduled pending consideration of the parties summary judgment energy, shipping and petrochemicals industries, and sanctions against motions.
financial institutions that engage in significant transactions with the Iran Central Bank: and in the EU, a prohibition on the import, purchase and Clean Air Act matters transport of Iranian-origin crude oil, petroleum products and natural gas.
On 1 February 2013, Marathon Petroleum Company LP Marathon In addition, in August 2012, US President Obama signed into law the Iran purchased the Texas City refinery from BP Products and directed BP Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 ITRA, which, Products to transfer the refinery to Blanchard Refining Company LLC among other things, added a new Section 13 r to the Securities Blanchard.
On 4 November 2013, BP Products, Blanchard and the EPA Exchange Act of 1934, as amended the Exchange Act and requires reached an agreement to settle certain alleged Clean Air Act violations at issuers that must file annual or quarterly reports under the Exchange Act the Texas City refinery.
Pursuant to the settlement BP Products paid a to disclose in such reports whether, during the period covered by the civil penalty of $950,000 and Blanchard agreed to undertake certain report, the registrant or its affiliates have knowingly engaged in certain, injunctive relief.
BP Products has also been in discussions with the EPA regarding alleged Both the US and the EU have enacted strong sanctions against Syria, CAA violations at the Toledo refinery and the EPA has alleged certain including a prohibition on the purchase of Syrian-origin crude and a US CAA violations at the Cherry Point refinery and the Carson refinery which prohibition on the provision of services to Syria by US persons.
The EU BP Products sold to Tesoro Corporation on 1 June 2013. sanctions against Syria include a prohibition on supplying certain Bolivia equipment used in the production, refining, or liquefaction of petroleum On 24 January 2012, the Republic of Bolivia issued a press statement resources as well as restrictions on dealing with the Central Bank of Syria declaring its intent to nationalize Pan American Energys PAE interests and numerous other Syrian financial institutions.
in the Caipipendi Operations Contract.
No formal decision has been With effect from 20 January 2014, the US and the EU implemented issued or announced by the government, and no nationalization process temporary, limited and reversible relief of certain sanctions related to Iran has commenced.
In October 2013, in a public speech the President of pursuant to a Joint Plan of Action entered by Iran, China, France, Bolivia made remarks in connection with PAEs arbitration case for Germany, Russia, the UK and the US.
BP has not changed its policy in compensation for expropriation of its shares in Empresa Petrolera Chaco relation to Iran as a result of the Joint Plan of Action and has no plans to S. A. Chaco.
PAE and its shareholders BP and Bridas intend to vigorously engage in any new business with Iran which would now be permitted as defend their legal interests under the Caipipendi Operations Contract and a result of the Joint Plan of Action.
in relation to the arbitration case relating to the expropriation of the PAE shares in Chaco.
That arbitration was filed in March 2012 and jurisdiction BP has interests in and operates two fields the North Sea Rhum field has been confirmed by the tribunal.
The case is due to proceed.
PAE has Rhum and the Azerbaijan Shah Deniz field and has interests in a gas reiterated its willingness to negotiate on the Chaco compensation claim marketing entity and a gas pipeline entity which, respectively, market and BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 267
