Shareholder information A Scrip Dividend Programme Scrip was approved by shareholders in existing and proposed US Treasury regulations thereunder, published 2010 which enables BP ordinary shareholders and ADS holders to elect rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws of the UK, all as to receive dividends by way of new fully paid BP ordinary shares or currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention between the US ADSs in the case of ADS holders instead of cash.
The operation of the and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 the Treaty.
These Scrip is always subject to the directors decision to make the Scrip offer laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
This section is available in respect of any particular dividend.
Should the directors decide further based in part on the representations of the Depositary and not to offer the Scrip in respect of any particular dividend, cash will be assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement and any related paid automatically instead.
agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention the Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on page 51 and other Estate Tax Convention and for US federal income tax and UK taxation purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the matters that may affect the business of the group set out in our strategy on page 13 and in Liquidity and capital resources on page 56. owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation company per ADS for the past five years.
other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
a Dividends per ADS March June September December Total Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US federal, 2009 UK pence 58.91 57.50 51.02 51.07 218.5 state and local, UK and other tax consequences of owning and disposing US cents 84 84 84 84 336 of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular circumstances, and in particular whether they are eligible for the benefits of the Treaty in 2010 UK pence 52.07 52.07 respect of their investment in the shares or ADSs.
US cents 84 84 2011 UK pence 26.02 25.68 25.90 26.82 104.42 Taxation of dividends US cents 42 42 42 42 168 UK taxation 2012 UK pence 30.57 30.90 30.10 33.53 125.10 Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from US cents 48 48 48 54 198 dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
A 2013 UK pence 36.01 35.01 34.58 34.80 140.4 shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK or trading in the UK through a permanent establishment generally will not US cents 54 54 54 57 219 be taxable in the UK on a dividend it receives from the company.
A a Dividends announced and paid by the company on ordinary and preference shares are provided shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is in Financial statements Note 12. subject to UK tax but entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs of the company equal to one-ninth of the cash UK foreign exchange controls on dividends dividend.
There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on US federal income taxation remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross companys operations, other than restrictions applicable to certain amount of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or countries and persons subject to EU economic sanctions.
accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under the tax purposes.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident or years beginning after 2012 that constitute qualified dividend income foreign owners to hold or vote BP ordinary or preference shares in the will be taxable to the holder at a maximum rate of 20%, provided that the company other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the holder has a holding period in the ordinary shares or ADSs of more than shareholders and limitations applicable to certain countries and persons 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days before the exsubject to EU economic sanctions.
dividend date and meets other holding period requirements.
Dividends paid by the company with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs will generally be qualified dividend income.
Shareholder taxation information As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK withholding tax.
Accordingly, a US holder will include only the dividend taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder actually received from the company in gross income for US federal who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax purposes.
income tax purposes, and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US It does not apply, however, interalia to members of special classes of holder to a foreign tax credit.
holders some of which may be subject to other rules, including: taxexempt entities, life insurance companies, dealers in securities, traders in For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in securities that elect a mark-to-market method of accounting for securities income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the holdings, investors liable for alternative minimum tax, holders that, Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the companys voting stock, dividend and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction holders that hold the shares or ADSs as part of a straddle or a hedging or generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received conversion transaction, holders that purchase or sell the shares or ADSs from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources as part of a wash sale for US federal income tax purposes, or holders outside the US and generally will be passive category income or, in the whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
In addition, if a case of certain US holders, general category income, each of which is partnership holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income tax treated separately for purposes of computing a US holders foreign tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the partner credit limitation.
and the tax treatment of the partnership and may not be described fully The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares that is paid below.
in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the pounds sterling A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is for payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling US dollar rate US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, ii a US on the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, regardless of domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US whether the payment is, in fact, converted into US dollars.
Generally, any federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US gain or loss resulting from currency exchange fluctuations during the court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and period from the date the pounds sterling dividend payment is includible in one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial decisions income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars will be of the trust.
treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the preferential tax rate on qualified dividend income.
The gain or loss This section is based on the tax laws of the United States, including the generally will be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, its legislative history, tax credit limitation purposes.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 275
