Under SETS, buy and sell orders at specific prices may Called-up share capital be sent electronically to the exchange by any firm that is a member of the Details of the allotted, called-up and fully-paid share capital at LSE, on behalf of a client or on behalf of itself acting as a principal.
The 31 December 2013 are set out in Financial statements Note 31. orders are then anonymously displayed in the order book.
When there is a At the AGM on 11 April 2013, authorization was given to the directors to match on a buy and a sell order, the trade is executed and automatically allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to $3,194 million.
Trading is continuous from 8.00 a. m. to 4.30 p. m. UK Authority was also given to the directors to allot shares for cash and to time but, in the event of a 20% movement in the share price either way, dispose of treasury shares, other than by way of rights issue, up to a the LSE may impose a temporary halt in the trading of that companys maximum of $240 million, without having to offer such shares to existing shares in the order book to allow the market to re-establish equilibrium.
These authorities were given for the period until the next Dealings in ordinary shares may also take place between an investor and AGM in 2014 or 11 July 2014, whichever is the earlier.
These authorities a market-maker, via a member firm, outside the electronic order book.
are renewed annually at the AGM.
In the US, BPs securities are traded on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE in the form of ADSs, for which JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. is the Share prices and listings depositary the Depositary and transfer agent.
The Depositarys principal office is 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, N. A.
Floor 58, New York, NY 10005- Markets and market prices 1401, US.
Each ADS represents six ordinary shares.
ADSs are listed on The primary market for BPs ordinary shares is the London Stock the NYSE.
ADSs are evidenced by American depositary receipts ADRs, Exchange LSE.
BPs ordinary shares are a constituent element of the which may be issued in either certificated or book entry form.
Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
BPs ordinary shares are also The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the highest and traded on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange in Germany.
lowest middle market quotations for BPs ordinary shares and ADSs for Trading of BPs shares on the LSE is primarily through the use of the the periods shown.
These are derived from the highest and lowest intraStock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS, introduced in 1997 for day sales prices as reported on the LSE and NYSE, respectively.
Market prices for the ordinary shares on the LSE and in after-hours Dividends trading off the LSE, in each case while the NYSE is open, and the market BPs current policy is to pay interim dividends on a quarterly basis on its prices for ADSs on the NYSE, are closely related due to arbitrage among ordinary shares.
the various markets, although differences may exist from time to time.
BPs current policy is also to announce dividends for ordinary shares in On 18 February 2014, 876,828,675.5 ADSs equivalent to approximately US dollars and state an equivalent sterling dividend.
Dividends on BP 5,260,972,053 ordinary shares or some 28.51% of the total issued share ordinary shares will be paid in sterling and on BP ADSs in US dollars.
The capital, excluding shares held in treasury were outstanding and were rate of exchange used to determine the sterling amount equivalent is the held by approximately 100,614 ADS holders.
Of these, about 99,394 had average of the market exchange rates in London over the four business registered addresses in the US at that date.
One of the registered holders days prior to the sterling equivalent announcement date.
The directors may of ADSs represents some 868,478 underlying holders.
choose to declare dividends in any currency provided that a sterling On 18 February 2014, there were approximately 279,391 ordinary equivalent is announced, but it is not the companys intention to change its shareholders.
Of these shareholders, around 1,574 had registered current policy of announcing dividends on ordinary shares in US dollars.
addresses in the US and held a total of some 4,286,769 ordinary shares.
Information regarding dividends announced and paid by the company on Since a number of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by brokers ordinary shares and preference shares is provided in Financial statements and other nominees, the number of holders in the US may not be Note 12. representative of the number of beneficial holders of their respective country of residence.
274 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
