Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action Environmental expenditure or, if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
$ million The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, remediation 2013 2012 2011 and abatement programmes are inherently difficult to estimate.
They Environmental expenditure relating to often depend on the extent of contamination, and the associated impact and timing of the corrective actions required, technological feasibility the Gulf of Mexico oil spill 66 919 1,838 and BPs share of liability.
Though the costs of future programmes Operating expenditure 657 742 704 could be significant and may be material to the results of operations in Capital expenditure 1,091 1,207 819 the period in which they are recognized, it is not expected that such Clean-ups 42 47 53 costs will be material to the groups overall results of operations or Additions to environmental remediation financial position.
provision 472 549 512 Additions to decommissioning provision 2,092 3,766 4,595 Additions to our environmental remediation provision decreased in 2013 largely due to scope reassessments of the remediation plans of a Environmental expenditure relating to the Gulf of number of our sites in the US and Canada.
The charge for Mexico oil spill environmental remediation provisions in 2013 included $13 million in respect of provisions for new sites 2012 $19 million and 2011 The environmental expenditure credit of $66 million relating to the Gulf $12 million.
of Mexico oil spill arises primarily from the write-back of a spill response provision.
For full details of all environmental activities in relation to the In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oiland gasGulf of Mexico oil spill, see Financial statements Note 2. producing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production Other environmental expenditure facility a provision is established that represents the discounted value of Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, abatement the expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
or elimination of air, water and solid waste pollution is often not incurred In 2013 additions to the decommissioning provision were less than in as a separately identifiable transaction.
Instead, it forms part of a larger 2012, and were driven by detailed reviews of expected future costs, transaction that includes, for example, normal maintenance and to a lesser extent increases to the asset base.
The figures for environmental operating and capital 2011 and 2012 were driven by changes in estimation and detailed expenditure in the table are therefore estimates, based on the reviews of expected future costs.
The majority of these additions definitions and guidelines of the American Petroleum Institute.
related to our sites in Trinidad, the Gulf of Mexico, Alaska, Angola and Environmental operating expenditure of $657 million in 2013 was lower the North Sea.
This is primarily due to the divestment of the In 2011 and 2012, the Gulf of Mexico was impacted by the Bureau of Texas City and Carson refineries during 2013.
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcements BOEMRE Capital expenditure in 2013 was lower than in 2012 principally due to Notice to Lessees NTL 2010-G05, issued in October 2010, which reduced levels of construction activity at our Whiting refinery in 2013 as requires that idle infrastructure on active leases be decommissioned compared to 2012.
All of the major new units associated with the earlier than previously was required and establishes guidelines to Whiting refinery modernization project were progressively determine the future utility of idle infrastructure on active leases.
commissioned during 2013 with the final major unit being brought We undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews onstream in December.
Similar levels of operating and capital take account of revised cost assumptions, changes in decommissioning expenditures are expected in the foreseeable future.
requirements and any technological developments.
In addition to operating and capital expenditures, we also establish Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are provisions for future environmental remediation.
Expenditure against such usually established on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods and is not included in Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
environmental operating expenditure reported for such periods.
Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up is appear in the financial statements Note 29. probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
Contractual obligations The following table summarizes the groups principal contractual obligations at 31 December 2013, distinguishing between those for which a liability is recognized on the balance sheet and those for which no liability is recognized.
Further information on borrowings is given in Financial statements Note 27 and more information on operating leases is given in Financial statements Note 9.
252 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
