Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Financial Statements As required by company law, the Directors accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility are responsible for the preparation of the Annual for any changes that have occurred to the financial Report and Accounts, which is required to include a statements since they were initially presented on Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Annual the website.
Overseas visitors to the website need Report on Remuneration and Corporate Governance to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom Statement.
The Directors must not approve the governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements unless in their opinion they the Annual Report and Accounts may differ from give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of legislation in their jurisdiction.
the Company as at 31 December 2013 and of the In accordance with Chapter 4 of the Disclosure results for the year then ended.
The Directors are and Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm that to also responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report the best of their knowledge: and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable the financial statements have been prepared in and that adequate accounting records are sufficient accordance with applicable UK generally accepted to show and explain the Companys transactions accounting standards, on a going concern basis, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the financial position of the Company and enable financial position and return of the Company: them to ensure that the financial statements and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration development and performance of the Company comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have and the important events that have occurred a general responsibility for taking such steps as are during the financial year and their impact on the reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets financial statements, including a description of of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud principal risks and uncertainties for the forthcoming and other irregularities.
In preparing the financial financial year: and statements, suitable accounting policies have been the financial statements and the Directors Report used and applied consistently and reasonable and include details on related party transactions.
prudent judgements and estimates have been made.
The Annual Report and Accounts is published on the www.
com website, which is maintained by F&C.
The content and integrity of the website maintained by F&C or any of its On behalf of the Board subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, Simon Fraser the responsibility of F&C.
The work carried out Chairman by the auditors does not involve consideration of 3 March 2014 the maintenance and integrity of this website and, 36 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
