Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 55 Directors Responsibilities Statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention regulations.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are the corporate and financial information included on the companys required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and have also chosen to prepare the parent company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under Responsibility statement company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for the financial statements, prepared in accordance with that period.
In preparing these financial statements, International International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the properly select and apply accounting policies: consolidation taken as a whole: and present information, including accounting policies, in a manner the management report, which is incorporated into the that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable directors' report, includes a fair review of the development and information: performance of the business and the position of the Company provide additional disclosures when compliance with the and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and understand the impact of particular transactions, other events uncertainties that they face.
and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and By order of the Board make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Ian Gorham Tracey Taylor Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 10 September 2013 10 September 2013 records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. www.
