FURTHER SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION How to invest The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
They can be bought by placing an order with a stockbroker or by asking a professional adviser to do so.
Sources of further information on the Company The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times, The Daily Telegraph and The Times.
The NAV per share is calculated and released daily to the London Stock Exchange and monthly to the Association of Investment Companies.
Key dates If a dividend is declared in respect of a financial year, it is normally paid late April early May.
The AGM is normally held in April.
Taxation The price of the Ordinary shares adjusted for the price of attributable warrants on 21 February 1994, which was the first day of trading, was 90.9p.
The amount attributable to the warrants for the purpose of capital gains tax is 9.1p per share issued 1994 Annual Report.
Any shareholder uncertain of his or her position is recommended to seek expert advice.
ISAs The Ordinary shares of the Company are qualifying investments for individual saving accounts.
Electronic proxy voting If you hold stock in your own name you can choose to vote by returning proxies electronically at www.
If you have any questions about this service please contact Capita Registrars on 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras, lines are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday-Friday.
Mainstream investment The Company conducts its affairs so that its ordinary shares are capable of being recommended by independent financial advisors to ordinary retail investors in accordance with relevant FCA rules.
Our ordinary shares are, we consider, mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
The Company intends to continue conducting its affairs for the foreseeable future so that the ordinary shares can continue to be categorised as mainstream.
Herald is an investment trust.
Investment trusts offer investors the following: Participation in a diversified portfolio of shares.
Constant supervision by experienced professional managers.
The Company is free from capital gains tax on capital profits realised within the portfolio.
The opportunity to achieve improved performance for shareholders funds in rising markets by the borrowing of additional money.
