NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Accounting policies The financial statements for the year to 31 December 2013 have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out below, which are consistent with those in the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements at 31 December 2012. a Accounting convention The financial statements are prepared on the assumption that approval as an investment trust will be retained.
The Directors consider the Companys functional currency to be sterling as the Companys shareholders are predominantly based in the UK and the Company is subject to the UKs regulatory environment.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The Companies Act 2006, applicable UK accounting standards and with the Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts issued January 2009.
In order to better reflect the activities of the Company and in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the profit and loss account between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented in the Income Statement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Companys balance sheet when it becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
b Investments Purchases and sales of investments are accounted for on a trade date basis.
All investments are designated at fair value through profit or loss upon initial recognition and are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
The fair value of listed security investments is bid value.
Investments on the Alternative Investment Market are included at their bid value.
The fair value of unlisted investments uses valuation techniques determined by the Directors on the basis of latest information in line with the relevant principles of the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of investments are taken to capital reserve.
c Income Dividend income is accounted for when the entitlement to the income is established normally on the exdividend date.
Franked income is stated net of tax credits.
Unfranked investment income includes the taxes deducted at source.
Interest from fixed interest securities is recognised on an effective yield basis.
Underwriting commission and interest receivable on deposits are recognised on an accruals basis.
d Expenses All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged through the revenue column of the Income Statement except where they relate directly to the acquisition or disposal of an investment transaction costs and are taken to the Income Statement as a capital item.
e Finance costs Finance costs are accounted for on an accruals basis and are charged through the revenue column of the Income Statement.
f Financial instruments The Company uses interest rate swaps to hedge the cash flow risk arising from interest rate fluctuations.
The swap is marked to fair value.
The fair value is estimated based on the swap providers valuation and is compared to an external model and external prices.
Gains or losses arising on the fair value of the interest rate swap during the year are taken to the income statement as a capital item.
In accordance with FRS 26: Financial Instruments: Measurement, derivative instruments are valued at fair value and are included in current assets or current liabilities in the balance sheet.
g Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences which have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, calculated on an undiscounted basis, and based on enacted tax rates relevant to the benefit or liability.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is more likely than not that there will be taxable profits from which underlying timing differences can be deducted.
HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 43 106988 Herald AR 1213-v10.
